tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to invite the MPs to rest and then I'm going to call the speakers to the stand for extracurricular remarks. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Konya MP Hüsnüye Erdogan, who asked for the appointment of International Fight Against Violence Against Women on November 25th. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the day of the International Fight Against Violence Against Women on November 25th. I salute you. According to the World Health Organization, violence against women is described as any form of behavior that can hurt women based on gender, harm them, cause physical, sexual, spiritual damage, and impose pressure on them in public or in private life, and restrict freedoms in an arbitrary way. Violence is a destruction that has a profound effect on the physical health and mental balance of individuals that needs to be dealt with by its consequences. Today, for psychological reasons, many women in the world are subjected to different levels of violence, such as social communication between individuals, lack of money, sexism, lack of education, and legal spaces. The extent of violence caused by many physical, sexual, and psychological behavioral disorders can be spoken of, as well as in a psychological dimension, such as the depriving of the material resources needed to sustain the individual's life. Our women who have been intimidated and intimidated by brute force do not even recognize verbal violence, psychological and social violence, while preventing violence from even sharing it with their immediate surroundings. The EC PARTY has been working to strengthen the socioeconomic position of our women during the rule of power, supporting protective services along with legal regulations. The treatment and rehabilitation services for victims of violence have been weighted. Studies have been conducted on providing active participation in our women's social life, weighting their vocational education, and showing their presence in public areas. In order for us to maintain the most fundamental structure of our society, the family institution, and grow a moral, conscientious generation, we need qualified, self-respecting, self-respecting women. It should not be forgotten that the trust and faith of a woman who has been subjected to domestic pressure, constant control and physical violence, emotionally exploited, humiliated, losing her sense of self - control, and her family life will be destroyed. This would be a serious obstacle to the development of society. AK PARTY, which is aware of this, has weighed in on women's work, has provided rehabilitation programmes and services to individuals who exercise violence by increasing number and quality of services, and has made it very clear that violence is a fundamental violation of human rights by the community. We've come from days when there were different dimensions of violence against women, when they weren't admitted to universities to block their right to education, they weren't allowed to exist in their working life, they weren't even allowed to take an oath as an elected representative from this stand, we've come to a time when there's an active female presence in every aspect of life. As one of those who experienced psychological violence in both 1987 and 28 shubbatta, I give thanks to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and to our AK PARTI, who has ended the tyranny of this mindset that has been trying to suppress women for years, on behalf of all our women, on behalf of all our women. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs, as a government, many women are included in education, health, political life, public order, management. He says that for us, women, men, old, young people should be treated humanly, that any violence should be perceived as zero tolerance, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Now, the second word outside the agenda belongs to Ankara MP Şenal Sarıhan, who wants to talk about the same thing again. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0004par0027	Mr. President, my dear fellow clerks, dear fellow writers, male and female lawmakers, I separate them as members of lawmakers, because we live in a Turkey where equality can't be achieved despite all our demands for equality. In fact, we live in a world where equality can't be achieved. Women continue to be violent. Do you know how many women have been killed in Ankara in the last few days? Do you know, dear friends, that three women have been murdered in three separate houses three days in a row? How many women have been killed in Gaziantep, Eskişehir, Mardin? How many of these have been released to the press, and how many of them have not been reported anywhere? They've either been thrown into a well or thrown into a river or thrown into the sea or stuffed in sacks and buried in the ground, do you know that? Will we know? When will we know? Dear friends, for years women have been trying to speak their voices, to fight for the equality of gender, to declare to you, to us, to all of us, that they are not half, that they are complete, that they exist in society, that they can speak their voices. What's the answer we gave them? In 2008, 35 women's deaths were released to the press. Today, as of October, 237 women died in 2016. I'd like you to think of those who can't be news, remember those who can't be news. Is violence just death? No, friends, there are women who have been abused by her husband, by her brother-in-law, by her mother-in-law, even by people she doesn't even know. Why? Because we looked at her through two windows; one of these windows is a sexual object. This is a display material that will satisfy our sexual needs. On the other hand, we said: "Woman is precious, mother is a mother, let's protect her." Yes, women are a mother, and that's an important value because new people produce you, women or men produce all of us, but dear friends are human, women have human rights, and women have the right to live in the very beginning of these human rights. So today, on this day of struggle, we must once again question our awareness of women's attacks, sexual assaults, non-sexual violence. Not limited to today, of course, but a few days ago, we tried to talk about an additional interim clause here, TCK 103, an arrangement for the protection of our children regarding sexual crimes. I've seen it, and I've seen how our boyfriends tear themselves apart and express that there's no law here, and I'm glad they're fighting for it, but I'd like it to be everywhere. Mr. President says today that the clause was open and abused. "The abuse was not open, my friends. That substance was illegal, that substance was a black substance, it was not protecting our children, it was allowing our children to have sexual assault, and it was rewarding for marriage, and it was resurrecting a law clause that we had buried 11 years ago. Now, my dear friends, we all need to roll up our sleeves for a new arrangement about TCK. The law has its duty, and it has its duty to live. Let's make the right laws. With those laws, let's at least help prevent this crime. Let's eliminate the statute of limitations on violence against women. Let's say it's a crime against humanity. At the same time, let us ask that the judge's discretion not be involved in these crimes. I proposed a law on March 6th, rotting on the shelf, waiting, pointing out that no one's heart was beating for an arrangement about women. Let's sit down and call our women's organizations. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] How can we avoid violence in legal ways? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0005par0035	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Samsun MP Erhan Usta. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0006par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. On Wednesday, we had a group of proposals as the National Movement Party, where we had a group of proposals to investigate recent developments in Turkey's economy, the recent distortions in almost all elements of the economy as Parliament, to put it on a table, but that proposal was not accepted by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Now why are we talking about something like this off the table again? Guys, it's so bad, I'll tell you, it's not the way we know it. Every day, a new event, inside or outside, leads Turkey's economy to a little more straitening, trouble. As an MP, as an opposition MP, I will give this speech because I think it is very important and appropriate for us to bring this matter up again, as part of our audit activity, our government auditing operation -- perhaps for our friends who will be boring. Now, from the inside, from the outside -- we're going to get into the elements -- Turkey is really surrounded, and our country is going through hard times. You're looking at domestic politics, while PKK's treacherous acts of terror continue. We saw what happened in Adana yesterday, and every day there's an act of terror. The fight with ▪ continues. Of course, the struggle has created tensions in the economy, tensions in society, problems. At the same time, the attitude that some institutions take in this particular struggle will be harmful. We've been through this a long time, actually. But there's a tension here, there's a problem. On the other hand, on our agenda, Mr. Prime Minister announced today, here, in March, there's something called a referendum, there's an agenda. It's going to be a strain on the markets. That day happens, another day happens, but this kind of talk, and this kind of political agenda is still creating tension in the markets. There's a lot of tension, a lot of tension on the business side. In foreign policy, you're looking, unfortunately, since foreign policy has been handed over to the Fetullahist terrorist organization so far, and they've been talking against Turkey all the time outside today, and Turkey's perception is very corrupted abroad. We've seen it ourselves, and that's all the experience of our friends going abroad and going to other countries. There's a serious desensitization. We're stuck here, too. The European Parliament's decision... yes, we don't accept the decision, we reject it, we condemn it, but this decision is a decision that could have political consequences. Today, Austria has made a decision on the arms embargo for Turkey in the morning. So, the European Parliament has been compressed by the European Union. There's a Syrian thing going on. This is the 94th day of Operation Firat Shield. There's something seriously wrong here. We had martyrs there yesterday. We call it Syrian regimen forces, but we don't know if Russia, supposedly our ally, is behind it today. We're trapped in there. So in a situation like this, now, considering that each of the indicators in the economy -- I'm not going to say this in detail -- are actually going to be much more, much worse on the economy in the coming days. Today, look, the dollar went up to a dry 3.47. What if the dollar were to go down, and what if it did? There were certain declarations. This is all terribly wrong. The dollar will affect both companies and affect the overall economy through inflation and affect our budget revenues in a negative way. Look, seriously, in this last quarter, companies are going to write kambio damage, and we're going to see the effects on corporate tax. So it's an element that affects everything from head to toe. According to the Central Bank's work, the wolf's transition is 15 percent, so inflation increases by 1.5 points when the currency increases by 10 points. So there's a serious problem here, we need to see this. The firms have open positions. Foreign debt is $421 billion; he's got payments problems, he's got problems. This country has to finance $220 billion every year. Look, according to the latest data from BETAM, Turkey's growth estimate for the third quarter is 0.1 friends. Turkey has come to zero growth, look at it in quarters. In the yearbook, BETAM estimates 2.6 per cent, despite the government's 3.2 per cent estimate. Possible FED decisions will have a significant impact on our country, which we expect. So the finance policy has been relaxed, and we've already explained it here. Now, considering all of this, we need to get the confidence and expectations of the economy right asap. I don't know if the economy is slipping under our feet. So, as Congress, we have important things to do, and in this case -- the biggest risk -- the government will be pressured to loosen the finance policy. If the government expands its finance policy, the current is open, the budget deficits, the two deficits will not be able to handle our economy. I wanted to draw attention to those risks. I salute the General Assembly, thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0007par0058	Thank you, Master. Congressmans, I'm going to make a commitment to the first 15 of the valued MPs who entered the system according to the Civil Code 60. First word, Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0008par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. The European Parliament made a recommendation yesterday to halt talks with Turkey. They want us to compromise our rights of sovereignty by pointing fingers at Turkey with a draft decision. Europe, which left Turkey alone in the face of treason, would condemn the measures taken by the State of Emergency in the fight against ا. The separatist PKK wants to soften its definition of terror while fighting the terrorist organization. They'll think they'll be able to renegotiate if the State of Emergency measures end. Let Europe know that their wealth has a right to the people of the Middle East, whose houses, their homes, their homes, and their homes. And they probably figured out what they'd do if those oppressed refugees were to claim their rights at the European gates. O Europe, if that is your decision, run to the right border gates and hand over their rights to the refugees whose blood you have turned into money.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0007par0066	Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0009par0068	Mr. President, today is the day the world condemns and fights violence against women. I see now that the Presidential Court is all men. I ask you for strong support because violence against women is a man's problem, not a woman's problem, but the result of men's inadequacy. In the meantime, I would like to share a situation with the Parliament today in İzmir Bornova. Our 9-year-old daughter -- the abuse of a 56-year-old -- was abused four months ago, and was told she was going to appear in court a few days later, and she died today. I'd like to present this to everyone, especially all Izmir MPs, AKP MPs. And on December 1st, there's a case in Menderes, where the Saadet teacher uncovered violence against six children, and I invite you to watch it. By the way, Mr. President, the reason for this kind of news from İzmir is that women from Izmir say and struggle with this violence, unfortunately they don't do it in other places, or rather, they're more cowering, which is why I congratulate the Izmirian women.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0010par0072	Mr. Dogan...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0011par0074	Mr. President, the academic who was laid off with the State of Emergency has been taken into custody for the 15th time in an effort to return to his post. Sıla Yalçın, a high school student who wanted to stand by this academic's righteous efforts, was expelled from school for a summer written by Ankara Governor İncirli Anadolu High School. I would like this student to be extradited to school immediately, and I would like to call off the wrongful procedure, Mr. Minister of National Education.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0010par0075	Mr. Tezcan...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0012par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. And I say that I condemn violence to women, that heaven is beneath the feet of our women mothers. I'd like to give you a little message about Mersin. With faith and ethnicity from the past, culture, sea, industry, trade and plateaus, our little Turkey, the shining star of world tourism, the Toros Mountains rising behind its long beaches, mysterious coves, is the pearl of Mediterranean history, dating back to the 6300th century. Mersin is a city of grapes, olives, strawberries and bananas, with Turkey's best lemon and orange gardens on its plains. We will continue to work day and night to make sure that our Mersinite in all areas receive his rightful place. I salute you from here, our Mersin, and all our citizens.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0013par0081	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0014par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. It is called a tax pardon in public, and there is a restructuring of all past public purchases. As part of this arrangement, tax reviews will not be conducted if they increase the matrix, but as a result of the information we received from various parts of Turkey, the taxpayers are observed to be victims of this issue through tax inspectors. Tax collectors threaten to examine their books if they do not call many taxpayers to increase the matherah from tax forgiveness or if this increase does not happen at a certain rate. It is a pity that after the law has been passed, honest taxpayers who do not see the need for additional additives are not exempted from the examinations of the Treasury. It is extremely important for the consciences to be quickly relieved of measures that will not prevent taxpayers and honest taxpayers from trying to close performance deficits by inspecting honest taxpayers who can't go to the taxpayers who can't go to pardons.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0013par0085	In place of Mr. Continuum, Mr. Shield...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0015par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, the European Parliament remained a recommendation on the temporary freeze of Turkey's talks with the European Union. As the European Union is established, it is designed as an economic and political co-operation based on the free movement of goods, capital and labour in a peaceful environment. It should be known that the recommendation is likely to endanger not only Turkey's future, but also the future of the European Union. Clearly, the elderly Europe needs the existence of a dynamic country like Turkey. Turkey, which is the European Union's gateway to the world, has great importance for the future economic and political stability of the elderly Europe. While the road is near, I urge the European Union member states to give up such difficult decisions and steps, and salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0013par0089	Mr. Köseoğlu...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0016par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute all our women and men who we fought side by side against violence on the Day of International Fighting and Solidarity against Violence Against Women on November 25th. We yearn for a world where the balance between man and woman is not about power, but about right, mercy, love, solidarity. The Women's Men's Equality Commission contributes to important work in this sense. We know that the civilized world will rise on the shoulders of strong women. In the words of strong women for the strong society, I express that we are determined to continue the delicate and uncompromising struggle that we have been fighting so far, and I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0017par0095	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0018par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. CHP President Mr. Kilicdaroglu had committed a scandal at this week's group meeting, exhibiting a full political abuse by the martyrs, claiming that our government had discriminated among the martyrs, that the right to military exemption of the 15 July martyrs to their children was not recognised by the families who had been killed in the fight against the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). The statements revealed that it was a lie and a slander, all benefiting from the same arrangement. Kilicdaroglu is still silent. The public now expects an apology from Kilicdaroglu, who has deceived the public with false testimony. If this apology does not come, I respectfully salute the General Assembly that you will remain in the position of a corrupt, slandering mufti who lied to the public about the political interests of Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0019par0100	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0020par0101	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0019par0102	The speaker who just spoke, he probably didn't understand what our president was saying or...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0021par0103	He said it loud and clear.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0019par0104	Or he's just doing what he wants to do. Now, it's possible for everyone to open up and read the law. In the 10th article of the 1111 Military Law (9) those who will benefit from military exemption are the children of subservient officers, private and private heads who have lost their lives under the Anti-Terror Act while performing military service. Therefore, I refuse to allow senior soldiers, police officers and other public officials, who have lost their lives under the Anti-Terror Act, to distort such talks about recognition for their children and their brothers.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0022par0106	Yeah, we listen, we listen, we listen to what he says, you guys talk about matter here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0023par0107	No, you can't.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0019par0108	That's exactly what we'd like to clear up a misdemeanor. They're incapable of reading the law, unable to interpret it, but they're capable of attacking. Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0024par0110	We heard what he said, the explanation is obvious.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0025par0111	It's on the record. Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0026par0114	The World Economic Forum 2016 is the 130th ranking of Turkey among 144 countries in the Global Gender Excession Report. We've been down 25 rows in the last ten years. Between 2002-2015, 5,406 women were murdered in our country. Only 303 women were murdered in 2015. In our country, one of the two women is exposed to physical or sexual violence. In terms of participation in economic activity and equality of opportunity, our country is in very bad shape, and we are ranked 132 percent among 142 countries. Women's employment turnout is 33 per cent in our country, while the EU is 63 per cent in the EU, which agreed to freeze talks with us yesterday. 46% of our working women are unregistered; in the agricultural sector, 94% are unregistered. While all these indicators should be fought, the AKP is attempting to marry our women at an early age with its rapist. We are violent and exploitive to all women, and I wish you a loving world.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0027par0117	Mr. Green...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0028par0119	Mr. President, on November 25th, on the Day of No Violence to Women, I condemn violence to all women and respectfully salute all women. Vice President of the Constitutional Court Professor Dr. Engin Yıldırım voiced that after July 15th, the number of individual applications to the Constitutional Court reached 45,000, with new layoffs saying it would be difficult to evaluate 100,000 applications by the end of the year. Mr. Yıldırım's statement means that the high judiciary is blocked by individual applications. Isn't over 100,000 individual appeals to the higher judiciary a clear indicator of rights violations? How do you intend to address the victimization of over 100,000 people living in high judgment? With respect.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0029par0122	Mr. Kavakcı...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0030par0124	July 15th was the most horrific day of violence against man, man and woman, and young. On this day, I pay my respects to all our young, elderly citizens and especially powerful women from tanks, bowing with respect to all our martyr mothers, especially our martyrs on July 15th, with the hope of a world where social gender justice is established.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0029par0125	Mr. Ersoy...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0031par0127	Today is the birthday of our founding President, Basbug Alparslan Turkesh. I call on you not to democracy sold for spinach in the streets, but to the path of truth, to God. The late Prime Minister, who said, "This is the cause of God." And the travellers of his path -- nationalism and democracy as twin brothers -- are on his way today with determination and determination. Your legacy will be preserved for generations, and your sons will never forget you, from tradition to the future, from leadership to determination. May your soul rest in peace and happy birthday, Chief.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0029par0130	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0032par0132	Mr. President, precious lawmakers, Western countries are trying to destroy the world for their own good and design the world with terror. This order is not moral, nor is it sustainable logic for the West. The EU has also shown in many cases that it is not sincere about democracy, which remains silent in the face of the coup in Egypt, without a clear stance on July 15th. Turkey is far above the norms of the European Union with its economic and social structure, its ownership of refugees, democracy and universal values. The European Union is officially in the process of disintegrating itself with Brexit. The European Union, which is a prisoner of terrorist organisations, wants to bill Turkey for the unification dissolution. Turkey, which has lingered at the EU gate for 50 years, is not Turkey 50 years ago. The European Union thinks it's the center of the world, but it's no longer in the center. In the new world order, mercy, justice, and goodness will not benefit from it.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0029par0133	Mr. Kestir...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0033par0135	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, violence at home, at school, at sports, at every level of the gross society is a black hole in society. Violence brings down man's honor and dignity. The AK PARTY has been fighting for 15 years with all kinds of violence. Since we came to power in 2002, especially the violent fight against women has been our primary policy. The change in the TCK has also occurred during this period in which crimes committed on the grounds of ritual and honor killings are subject to individual crimes and sentences increased. The first and only Parliament to sign the Istanbul Convention without hesitation is the Turkish Parliament, and Law 6284 is again adopted under the law of compliance with the Istanbul Convention. It's clear that we can't fight violence just with legal regulations. As with almost all social events, the fight against violence requires total work, interagency co-operation and co-operation, along with mental transformation.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0029par0136	Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0034par0138	Mr. President, thank you. Erzurum is an epic city, a national resurrection, a fortress of national will. When a thinker describes the city as blessed Erzurum, let the snow not rise from this land for five or six months, this land is warm. They are the sainted martyrs who have kept this holy land alive, and made it a leading province in our republic's history, and the source of the soul that made it the voice of national will on July 15th. As the poet puts it, they are like mountain ranges in the black bosom of the earth. On November 12th of every year, in order to renew their national conscience, the Elders march to the plates on the basis of their declarations, their insights. The meaning of this march is that once again I remember all our sins, all our doubts, all the heroes of St. Sainties with mercy and gratitude, and I curse the minds of terror.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0035par0141	Thank you. Congressmans, today is November 25th, the World War Against Violence Against Women. Hence, we condemn all forms of violence and violence against women in private. As a token of our determination in this struggle, I will make an additional promise to the four women's deputies, who are now in the system, for a minute. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Yes, Mr. Reyhanlıoğlu, please.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0036par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is November 25th, a day of life's life's life's life's life's life's life's life, family's family, society's society's society's society's society's society's society's community's life's life's life's day of international solidarity and struggle against violence. Violence to the woman is, unfortunately, a bleeding wound to our country as it is to the whole world; the worst shame against humanity is the ugliest of discrimination. As an EC PARTY, I would like to remind you that happy women are the basis of happy families and a happy society and that we are facing all kinds of violence, abuse. We know the importance of raising awareness, awareness, training, and training of women against violence. We've done a lot of work on this as a government, and we're still doing it. The oppressed have no language, no religion, no race, no gender. And our president's violent...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0035par0149	Mr. Ozkal, please.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0037par0151	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it is known, yesterday the European Parliament adopted the bill recommending temporary freeze of the talks held by Turkey's European Union and without legal binding. I strongly condemn this decision by the European Parliament. In general, this bill represents the final and highest standard of the ugly double standard Turkey has imposed on Turkey for nearly half a century compared to other candidate countries in the European integration process. By this decision, the European Parliament has brought the winning principle, the main goal in international relations, to the point of losing in private Turkey and in its own name. Our country is not alternative to foreign policy by acting from its geopolitical and geostrategic position. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0035par0153	Mr. Benli...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0038par0155	In particular, thank you again for this gesture, Mr. President. Because November 25th is an important opportunity to repeat that both discrimination and violence are unacceptable to women who make up half of society on the Day of International Fighting and Solidarity against Violence Against Women and raise the other half. At this point, in particular, I want to thank you for your positive discrimination against women. Because violence from the past to the future against a woman who has a universal problem all over the world continues to be one of the most painful things. Like Law 6284 under EC PARTY rule, we have to look for concrete solutions in this matter rather than slogans. At this point, I urge everyone from seven to 70 to act together at zero tolerance for violence against women. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0039par0158	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0040par0160	Thank you, too. Really, a moment is precious to us. Women need to spend every minute warning everyone today, especially our boyfriends, violent ones. We're a country that signs positive things. The Istanbul Convention is essentially a contract in Turkey's territory, and with Turkey's mind, it has come out with the minds of the people in Turkey. I want to finish what I just said to make this happen -- and we have a very important task to do, so there's a very important task for the legislature. We know the law isn't everything, but the law is worth both the deterrent and the creation of consciousness. To prevent violence against women in this sense, we need to work together to seriously discuss this statute of limitations issue, to make it count as a violation of human rights that has not been expired, as a crime against humanity.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0041par0163	Finally, Mr. Boiler...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0042par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is November 25th and International Fighting Against Violence Against Women. First of all, violence against women is a violation of human rights, which is a crime of humanity; it is necessary to act from here. So I'd like to point out carefully that we stand against both physical and psychological and economic violence against the woman. Our esteemed President has a very valuable statement about this, and he describes discrimination and violence against the woman as worse than racism. So far, we've said that the AK PARTY governments are all zero tolerances, and then after that, we're going to do what we have to do in the face of all kinds of violence against women and zero tolerance.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0043par0169	Thank you. Congressmans, today is an important day on November 25th, International Fight Against Violence Against Women. Of course, it's not just a day, but I think every day needs to be remembered and understood with this sensitivity. It is our responsibility to seek freedom for a life worthy of human dignity, to oppose all those who violate the most basic right to life, and to oppose all the centers. As a result of this responsibility, I appreciate the selfless steps of those in charge in our country and the sensitivity to violence against women as a result of the work of public and civil society organisations. We will continue to work together as Parliaments, not only in our country, but in order to make sure that the zero tolerance approach to violence is not only in our country, but in the world, as part of the historical mission that our values of civilization, which tells us that heaven is at the feet of mothers, are at the feet of our mothers. In this occasion, we honor the mothers of all our martyrs while the first 15th of July honors our female martyrs and all our martyrs. Not one day, but all days, I invite everyone to re-emotional, not to the so-called violence against women, but to the fundamental struggle. Thank you. I'll make a promise to the members of the group who entered the system in two minutes. First word, Mr. Ironel, for today's meaning and significance.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0044par0181	Today is the November 25th Women's Fight Against Violence Day. Today's meaning and significance need to be opened up a little bit. What happened on November 25th, and why is today a historic day? You know, a day of shame in the Dominican Republic, when the Mirabal brothers, known as the Mirabal brothers, were first raped by the soldiers of the dictatorship and were brutally murdered after the rape. So it's a day all over the world that's known on an international level as Fight Against Violence Against Women. Yes, the meaning and importance of women's struggle against dictatorship in the Dominican Republic is well known to all. Unfortunately, we face the reality of a country in Turkey that, though we fight for it, has shut down its fighting fields, which still does not allow women in many provinces of Turkey, especially in Diyarbakir, to be able to explain because of the Day of Women's Fighting Violence. We're all cursing the violence against women under a parliament roof, and we're saying there's zero tolerance for this, but that's where we're supposed to expose how weak Turkey has a report card on this issue. Between 2002 and 2015, women's organisations determined that 7,384 women were murdered in violence against the woman and only by the murder of women. I don't want to say it in too many numbers, but Turkey has to be revealed.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0045par0185	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0044par0186	From November 25, 2015 to November 25, 2016, 332 women have been slaughtered in Turkey. So we need to see this reality -- how we're actually fighting -- and put our report card in front of us one more time. Today we close women's organisations in Turkey with the State of Emergency. The Adıyaman Women's Life Association, Ankara Women's Research Association, Bursa Fair Women's Solidarity Association, Ceren Women's Association, Rainbow Women's Association, Kongra Jinen Azad (KJA), Mush Women's Roof Association, Selis Women's Association, Van Women's Association, is being shut down today because the women's associations that we can't count are fighting against her violently. Now you have to see it all and use it that way. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll take one more minute of positive discrimination.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0045par0189	All right, let's finish this, please.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0044par0190	We're a fighting party for male and state violence, and we're talking about violence against women today under the roof of Parliament. You said that, President. But unfortunately, our paralegals, our paralegals who are fighting violence against the woman, can't talk about it under the roof of this Parliament. I'll say their names one by one: our co-Chair, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, co-chair of a party that's struggling with this. Selma River, again, is a member of Parliament who has fought for years. Nursel Aydoğan again, Leyla Birlik again, Gülser Yıldırım, again at this party in the past period, Ayla Akat Ata, who served under this parliament and worked in the women's field, DBP Co-Chair Sebahat Tuncel, again our Co-Chair of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, and Gultan Kışanak, who worked in this Parliament for many years, and the co-chairs we can increase their names... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...our friends who are supposed to be here today, unfortunately, on this day of struggle, I think they're facing state violence. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0046par0194	Thank you. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0047par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we send our martyrs off. Just now, in Ankara, we've traveled from the fallen First Lieutenant Zafer Er. Akseki Mosque to the afterlife. Today, again, against Petty Officer Erdal Bolat, my constituency, Samsun Alaçam, our countrymen did their last duty. A soldier who was injured yesterday was also a martyr today. I ask the Lord to grant them mercy. Today is also the 99th anniversary of the late Prime Minister Alparslan Turkesh, founder of the National Movement Party. He's a great statesman, a great soldier, a great bureaucrat and a great politician. It is a memorable name for world Turkishism and Turkish nationalism. We promise here that we will protect his legacy, that we will never compromise Turkish nationalism. Chief, you are 99 years old now, but you will live for thousands of years with young men who follow your ideals. Rest in peace, may your soul rest in peace. Also, today is International Fight Against Violence Against Women on November 25th. Unfortunately, our country doesn't have a very good record in this matter, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs. Our women, our daughters are the most important asset in our society. We have to be very careful with them. We really should not compromise abuse or violence against them in any way. The legal regulations we make should be not only to spread culture that may be very limited in some of our regions, but to legalize what is universal and what is fundamentally common in society. In this regard, I would like to warn the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in that sense, because we've had a very bad experience with this. We need to pay attention to our children's education, our daughters' education. The women's employment rate, the employment rate is extremely low, we need to increase them. It's very important that women also gain economic independence.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0048par0205	Complete, please, for a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0047par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, punishments against violence against women should not be lightened in any way. We really need to turn this into a deterrent by raising it to international standards. There is no way, for example, that these should not be involved in any forgiveness, and I would like to complete my words by saying that I strongly condemn this violence against the woman. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0049par0209	Thank you. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0050par0212	Mr. President, I'm afraid our number of martyrs has risen since Operation Firat Shield began. We have five martyrs yesterday. Shouldn't the government be here to inform the House? In what phase of the operation, what will happen, what awaits Turkey, and what dangers await our soldiers there? Doesn't it look like the government hasn't noticed the trauma caused by our martyrs in Turkey? We'd like the government to inform the House of this immediately. We ask God's mercy to all our fallen soldiers. Mr. President, International War Against Violence Against Women Day was November 25th, November 20th World Children's Rights Day. In these five or six days, Turkey has had days when violence against women was discussed -- no matter what the economy says -- contrary to what it says. Women's associations and women who say "no" were subjected to police violence in Turkey in an environment where abuse on the child body was discussed, where child abuse and rapes were in some way tried to legitimize. They were dragged out of their hair. Why? No abuse of a child, no abuse of a woman's body, no violence. Although the Prime Minister's State of Emergency was declared against the state. When we looked at it, our women were dragged on the ground, our women were subjected to violence. What's the motive? Because women say no to sexual abuse. Now, you have to be sincere for once. I'm listening to our friends from the AKP. Where were you when those women were crawling all over the floor? Where have you all been? Why didn't you get up? I'm watching our friends first in the European Parliament.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0049par0215	Please complete in one minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0050par0217	They're trying to interpret the decision taken, which we don't approve of. No one's seen the size of this yet. What else will the European Parliament decide if you bring such events to life and bring them to life in the eyes of the world? Look, we met with the Greens group today, and the other day, the Council of Europe insisted that the negotiations process of the European Union should not be stopped, that Turkey should not be pushed out of the process, that the Republican People's Party should not be pushed out of the process. We do our duty, but the government doesn't do its duty. As long as these paintings continue, we'll have more trouble, dear friends. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0049par0219	Thank you. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0051par0222	Mr. President, thank you. Once again, I ask God to have mercy on our martyrs whom we have sent to the eternal world today, and their place will be paradise. Today is International Fighting and Solidarity Against Violence Against Women. Our political sensibilities in this matter are not only in words but also in practice and law, but in 14 years of AK PARTI rule. Violence is essentially one of humanity's darkest parts, and fighting violence is too deep to be solved by stereotypes and slogans. The incident we call violence against women is closely linked to cultural, social norms that support the application to violence as a way of solving problems in general. Part of this is about development, and the other part is about sovereign values. The power, the opposition, the civil society, everyone must first fight to resort to violence as a way to solve problems in general, and, of course, as part of that, they must be in solidarity with the woman we see examples of so much pain against violence. I hereby express our sensitivity to this subject once again. Since the Ottoman Empire, Turkey has been struggling to become part of the civilized world for 200 years. At times, we had European friends in the fight; there were some who opposed us, tried to prevent us, and blocked Turkey's struggle to become a partner in this civilized world. We understand that because when we say Europe, we're not talking about a block structure.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0052par0228	Please complete in one minute, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0051par0229	With one side, there's a Europe that constantly exalts those civilized values and struggles for a civilized world that doesn't see it as an instrument of political interests, and on the other hand, there's a Europe that faces cultural racism, racism, interest, Islamophobia, alien hostility, and gives them a bonus. I also want to tell you that our European friends are struggling to be part of Turkey's struggle to become part of this civilized world and to support its many years of struggle to become a member of the European Union in this framework, and to deal with policies that manifest in the form of self-blocking, inhibiting, cultural racism as indicators.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0052par0232	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0051par0233	In our struggle for Europe, in our struggle for the European Union, in our struggle to become part of the civilized world, it is our policy to increase our friends, to reduce our enemies. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0052par0235	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Sheikh Sait Efendi who was executed in Diyarbakir Dağkapı Square on 29 June 1925 with 46 friends, Said Nursi, Seyit Reza of Şemdinan, Seyit Abdulkadir and his son Seyit Mohammed, Dr. The burial places of Fuat and Assad the Sheikh of Erbil were not delivered to their families until now. In this regard, we would like to ask that Parliament investigate the archives of the Prime Ministership, Chief of General Staff and National Intelligence Service be opened under Articles 104, Article 105 of the Constitution 98, Civil Code 104, and 105. [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] 3) Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] 11) Burcu Çelik Özkan [[Mwah.]] [[Siirt]] [[Siirt]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Tunceli]] [[Van]] 23) Tuğba Hezer Özturk [[Van]] In the wake of the 1925 riots, Sheikh Sait Efendi and 46 of his friends were executed in Diyarbakir Dağkapi Square. The graves of Sheikh Sait Efendi and his companions (Sheikh Sheikh Abdullah, Vartolu Halid Beg's son Kamil Beg, Palulu Sheikh Sharif, Fakih Hasan Fehmi, Chapathier Mufti Sheikh İbrahim, Hanili Salih Beg and others) are still unknown. Even Master Sheikh Sait's personal belongings were not delivered to his family. Information on the Sheikh Sait case is limited because the Instulative Courts report is not open. Avni Doğan, one of the members of the court, explained in an interview with the World newspaper that a young man had given the death penalty for not being able to defend him and did not speak Turkish. In an interview with the World daily on July 25, 1957, the State's Attorney Ahmet Zalayya wrote that he had handed over his will, personal belongings and some money to him, and that he had delivered it to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In 2009, however, it was not stated to the authorities that there were no documents of Sheikh Sait's personal effects in the police record or in the police archives of the gendarmes. On March 23, 1960, Said Nursi died in Şanlıurfa. He was buried in the Halil-ur Rahman Derf in Urbana, but on July 12, 1960, the May 27 coup was carried to a place where the government had ordered his tomb to be destroyed and unexplained. Today's loved ones don't know where their grave is. Seyit Reza was executed in Wheat Square, located in the centre of Elazıg. The number of people sentenced to death with him was 7 and the executions were executed on 15 November 1937. According to the accounts, his body was buried next to an old Armenian cemetery on Harput Road, or a prison called 1,800 homes, which is now in hand. But there is no certainty and his grave remains unknown. Seyit Abdulkadir of Şemdinan is the son of the Sheikhi Ubedıllah River of Nakshibendi. He was President of the Ottoman State Department in 1910. Among those executed are his son, Syed Muhammad. They were executed in the Sheikh Sait case on May 27, 1925, and their grave remains unknown. It is against both Islam and international contracts, as well as all conscientious values, that all of these names are not given to their families and loved ones. The following concepts include respect for the remains of the deceased and the dead in the Geneva Ek 1 Protocol, respect for the cemetery sites reserved for these individuals, and facilitating the return of the remains of the deceased and their personal belongings at the request of their close relatives. In Islamic law, even the body of the enemy can't be treated unofficially. It is said that the body cannot be left in the middle and must be buried, and most importantly, it must be returned if the other party asks. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation on behalf of the National Movement Party Group of Northern Cyprus (KTC) and the Turkish Cypriot government (GKRY) in order to reach the goal of our national trial and to address the Cyprus issue in this framework. MP MHP Group Chairman MHP Group Vice President The final negotiations between the Turkish and Greek Cypriot Cypriot countries, whose goal is to unite Turkish and Greek states under the name of the United Federal Cypriots, continue since May 2015. There have been numerous talks between Turkish and Greek Cypriot parties in Cyprus since 1968. Many talks were held between the parties in 1974 and after the establishment of the KKTC in 1984. The goal of all talks after 1974 was to destroy the Turkish state in northern Cyprus as a result of Operation Peace for the Greek side. The talks, which began in May 2015 and led by President Mustafa Akincı on the Turkish side, continue to result in the destruction of the KKTC. Negotiations between the Turkish Cypriot Republic and the Greek Cypriot region continue under six main topics. 1) Federal state (Fiscal problems 3) EU legislation 4) Property 5) Landshare 6) are the rights of garantism. The first three topics suggest an agreement has been reached. In the first title, the agreement framework is based on the "founder state" or "constituent state" instead of the founding state. Thus, the KKTC will end its existence in the United Federal Republic of Cyprus and join it without the right to leave, while the Greek Cypriots will transform the Republic of Cyprus and make it the Republic of Federal Republic of Cyprus. These two different positions result in the adoption of two inequality structures on the basis of the agreement. The negotiating approach represented by President Akincı is a "state based on giving up in order to become a minority in Adeta." It is also noted that on behalf of the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus, the ongoing delegation does not have enough information on the lack of experience and the laws of states and EU law. In addition, the Turkish delegation does not implement a controversial, competitive, negotiating negotiating technique in the talks, but acts in a surrenderive manner. The delegation representing the KKTC is acting on a sense of "what we save is profit." Greek fascism sits at the negotiating table with all its aggression and shamelessness. The way President Radincı continues the negotiations is far from antidemocratic and transparent. Turkish nation and Turkish Cypriots often have no right to withhold information about the content of the talks from the Turkish nation and the Turkish Cypriot people. More serious than all this is that AKP power cannot stand strong behind the existence of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. The existence of the KKTC cannot be sacrificed for the full membership of the Republic of Turkey in the European Union. The territory of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus may be small, it may have a small population, but it does not eliminate the fact that the Turkish Cypriots are fighting for a major autonomy, making major sacrifices for the establishment of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. A statement that caused great concern during the talks said the talks would result in an agreement in 2016, said Foreign Minister Mevlüt Sergeant. He said that Greece's garantism was the last possible subject to be discussed on November 26, 2015, when he announced that Greece would give up being a guarantor during the final negotiation process. A parliamentary investigation is required, considering these issues. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the opening of Parliamental research under Article 104 of our Constitution 98th, Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Council of Ministers, 104th and 105th Articles, which ensured the unusual increase in Road Roads Motor Vehicles Forced Financial Responsibility Insurance premiums, which have been brought to the agenda in the wake of our media's continued responses. [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[Samsun]] [[Inconceived]] [[Antalya]] [[Erzurum]] [[Mersin]] 9) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Isparta]] 15) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] The type of responsibility insurance, which aims to meet the responsibility of the third party within certain limits, is called "imposed financial responsibility insurance" or "traffic insurance" in public, if a motor vehicle is damaged during its run on land roads. Compulsory fiscal responsibility insurance is required by those who act on Highway 2918 in Article 91 of the Traffic Law to receive financial responsibility insurance to ensure the responsibilities of Article 85 of this Law shall be met according to the first joke of Article 85. According to its ruling, it is a form of damage insurance created to compensate for the damage done to third persons. All motor vehicles run on the road are covered by mandatory financial responsibility insurance, except for motorless vehicles, bicycles, motor bikes, and motor vehicles that are not operated. The automotive and transport sector, such as insurance companies and private and commercial car users, has seen significant differences in prices that have been offered by different insurance companies, especially in recent years, which have been enforced by the law, and in particular in the uncertainty of the legislation on the issue, in some cases the mandatory financial responsibility insurance premiums are competing with car prices, and are offered by different insurance companies in the same vehicle. This leads to major legal conflicts, such as registering vehicles on other people who have an advantage over legislation or not getting mandatory Financial Responsibility Insurance. Although the number of accidents in our country remained almost constant to the total number of vehicles in traffic between 2002 and 15 years, the increased insurance premiums were exponentially purged from inflation and foreign exchanges, a problem in calculating risks at this point, and the costs caused by the carelessness of these calculations are reflected to consumers. The lack of clarity of collateral definitions, the lack of standards in body compensation and vehicle value loss calculations, and therefore the emergence of different court decisions as a result of the transfer of disputes to the judiciary, as a reflection of the activity in foreign currency courses to spare parts costs, makes it mandatory to investigate the problem in a multi-directional way. For these reasons, the reasons for the unusual increase in the costs of Road Road Motor Vehicles Compulsive Financial Responsibility Insurance should be investigated in detail and in multiple ways. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Friday 25/11/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 25 November 2016, Diyarbakır MP Deputy Chair Çağlar Demirel offered "In order to eliminate violence against the woman and establish the necessary mechanisms in order to establish this directional measure," the parliamentary research motion to Turkey's Grand National Assembly was proposed to be presented before other proposals in front of the information of the General Assembly and presented in the same session of Friday 25/11/2016. The first statement in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is from Van MP Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0053par0375	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear women, our dear people, dear friends, today is the International Day of War Against Violence Against Women on November 25th. The 25th November is a vital day for us women to display male violence, judgment, the immorality of the male-dominated mindset in every aspect of the social life. That's why I'm reminiscing with respect, respect, gratitude for all the women who lost their lives and were murdered while fighting for women's freedom. The brutal assault and murder that occurred years ago after that dictator pointed out to the Mirabal brothers was a message to the rest of the dictator that day, but just a year later, that dictator had come to an end, and the Mirabal brothers were a symbol of the women's struggle. Today, with the same awareness all over the world, women say no to all kinds of violence and fight back. Dear friends, on November 25, 2016, unfortunately, we're still talking about women's murders, rapes, abuses because women are still being killed because of male violence. Only 220 women were killed in 2016. That's a real shame for a government. The main obligation to combat violence against women is the state, as we have stated in our parliamentary research motion. And it would actually make sense to have this offer brought by the ruling party. It's still the government's obligation to ask Parliament to investigate such a matter and to actually face problems and to come up with an active action plan. Other countries, for example, do so. This morning, the European Parliament issued a joint statement and sent enough messages. Unfortunately, however, Turkey's report card for fighting violence against women is very bad. While male violence towards women continues, women are also fighting against the systematic attacks of the state. Dozens of women have been killed in the region because of the AKP-led destruction policies over the past year. War has been waged against the co-chair system based on gender equality, and the women's head of 25 municipalities from the Democratic Territories are currently under arrest. In the wake of the trial coup against our party on November 4, 2016, 5 of our female friends and our Co-Chair, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, are now in prison. Nevertheless, we HDP women will continue to call it freedom, peace and democracy against AKP policies. Because the struggle of women who struggle against violence, persecution, all kinds of discrimination to get out of the spiral of violence we're in is a vital role. We take that responsibility and we run it. If it is a crime to believe in free life in the face of those who worship male violence, violence, and rape, and abuse, we women will continue to commit this crime; if necessary, we will each and every day become the Mirabal brothers, and we will continue to lose the sleep of power. Dear women, unfortunately, every day we are subjected to verbal or physical male violence at home, on the street, even under this roof, and unfortunately women are killed, tortured, raped every day. The struggle for women's freedom is bound to go through the motions together. Therefore, we feel that for women who are victims of violence, shelters that operate are very important. These bunkers allow thousands of women who are subjected to male violence each year to survive. My dear female friends, eight women have been shut down for no good reason, fighting men's violence, supporting women who have been subjected to violence, and continuing the activities of shelters. I mentioned a little bit in my speech yesterday, but unfortunately, the MPs in the ruling ranks were really hypocritically involved in those women's organizations, which organization they were connected to. Tell me that. They started picking on me right away. I think it's a real hypocrisy. Because these women's organizations only benefit from women's issues, women's violence, politics, and what they do is they expose what the government doesn't do. I think that's why the government's anger is happening. He immediately closed it with a decree of law. The Adıyaman Women's Living Association (Burse Fair Women's Solidarity Association), Ceren Women's Association, Rainbow Women's Association, Mush Women's Roof Association, Mush Women's Association, Selis Women's Association, Van Women's Association, are closed without justification. The government isn't doing their activities. These closed institutions have worked against male violence and discrimination; many have supported the work of the Law on the Protection of Family 6284 and Avoiding Violence Against Women, and carried out invaluable efforts to access social and legal benefits for women. They have implemented policies in favor of women, which are not given to women who want to avoid violence by public institutions. For example, if you ask any woman about the work of the VACAD (VACAD) in Van, they will tell you about the benefits it brings to you, or if you turn a woman on the road in Adıyaman, she will tell you what activities the Adıyaman Women's Life Association operates. It's enough for you to ask, to do, to understand. Stopping the activities of women's associations is not only an attack on women's right to organize, but also an intervention in women's struggle to avoid male violence. This intervention has formed solidarity with women's institutions and has threatened hundreds of thousands of women to build. AKP policies target the struggle for women's freedom. The closure of the institutions I count above is the result of the arrest of our co-Chair Mr. Yüksekdağ, our mayors, the Free Women's Congress, KJA Co-author Mr. Ayla Akat Ata, the Co-Chair of the Democratic Districts, Mr. Sebahat Tucson. None of the sentences that started with the "Ama" are valid in the eyes of Kurdish women. As the state turned the country into hell on the basis of the State of Emergency, it first walled the doors of our municipal institutions, and then closed our associations. In this regard, we can make it very clear that male violence is a coincidence, an accident, an accident, not a madness, a systematic, political one. Dear women, not only do men's violence apply to individuals. The government attacks women in every area. State violence against opposing women continues. In detention, 548 women have been raped or harassed in the past 19 years. In Turkey, segregation policies for women constantly threaten women's right to live, more than to complicate women's lives by combining with the recent policies of the AKP's government. Dear women, by shutting down shelters, neither men's violence against women nor rape nor male dominant mentality ceases. Therefore, we who wage a struggle for women's freedom do not consider November 25th as a day of struggle and solidarity free from the events that have uncovered this day, the dictatorship and the dictatorship and the dictator's truth, the fact that the political prisoners in prisons are held, the fact that the political prisoners are homes for them, the fact that women's bodies are a trophy, and that they are also seen as an occupation and a force field, as a result of rape and rape, and the fact that women's killing, to silence, to suppress, to send a message. We are determined not to surrender the Mirabal brothers' struggle to ISIS mentality. For us every day is November 25th, the day of the struggle, until violence against the woman is over, societal equality is equal representation. We are aware and aware that with her liberation, society will transform. Therefore, we are ready to be set against violence wherever it comes from. If the male dominant order wants to end male violence against women, first it must ensure gender equality, first it must free the judicial mechanism, secure the lives of women exposed to violence. The ruling party should know that the woman's participation in life will narrow down the man's domain in a social life equipped with male mentality. We'll fight to make it happen. In a society that women turn into, there is no room for ranta, deception, abuse, harassment, and rape. We are aware that power has attacked the women's freedom movement in order to protect these areas, but we will resist. I'm saying that for a world free of violence and discrimination against women and women free of shelter, we, all women, will continue to fight for women in every field. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0054par0393	Thank you. The first word against the proposal belongs to Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0055par0397	Mr. President, before I speak, I salute you and the great Turkish nation. It's November 25th Women's Fighting Violence Day, and unfortunately, I'd like to start with a very painful example of that. This just came out on the news today, breaking news. If you'll excuse me, I'll read it to you: A 9-year-old student who died in a hospital in Bornova district of İzmir Province, where he died after he had collapsed in his home. Four months ago, it turned out that the child had been abused and died in his home that day because of fear of confronting the accused in court. Dear lawmakers, it's 2016, and we've overcome many problems, and we also have to come to a time when we've dealt with our daughters, our children, not only our sons, but our women, who are victims of violence -- who have a strong economy, who have needs, who have a sense of justice in politics, based on ethical rules, and not just on the victim issues of the country, but with education, health, all their policies. But when we look at where we've come from, we're sad and sad about a lot of things. Let's go further back, we all know the first time the republic was founded, and let's take a look at the value given to her from the early Turks. In the sky, men and women were equal status. Both men and women went through the same training, learning to shoot arrows together, learning to ride together, and taking over together. If there was no expression in the form of the woman and she had not been signed by either of them, these orders would not have been considered valid at the time. And again, she would accept ambassadors, take cases at the point where she would make the necessary decisions for justice. We're looking at the point where we came in today, the statistics are so bad. From where did we come from, we need to grow much further. When we say, "We face violence against women, against our daughters." Until yesterday, we were all fighting as opposition to the failure of the specific motion, not being accepted. It hurt even when such a motion came up. The fact that our daughters were married to early abusers or forced to marry by their parents can be a subject that we discuss for days today. We're pretty upset that we're here. When we look at the woman's place, unfortunately, we're looking at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the 26th term, 550 MPs, 81, women. That's 14.73 percent, and again, we're looking back at the Cabinet, which is very sad; we only have one female minister, the Minister of Family and Social Policy. I suppose we should give it to a man's MP, you know, not so much anymore. They said they deserved to give it to a woman's MP, but we'd expect to catch at least 30 percent in the Cabinet. The elections were held in 81 districts, 919 districts, 18,067 villages and 30,050 neighborhoods. We look at it this way: 37 women have been elected mayors, and three of them have also served in the capital city, one of them in the province, and 33 in the district. We're looking at statistics, 20.9% of women in local governments. We're looking at Europe, 23.9% in Europe, 26.1 per cent in Latin America -- total 9 countries -- 3.7% in Turkey. That's not where we came from. Again, we're looking at employment -- that's the data from TÜİKbook -- 26.7%. Our women are practically out of jobs. We're looking at the Education Reform Initiative Report, 40 percent of our girls drop out of elementary school and secondary school. What does that mean? 40 percent of our 10 children can't read or fail their education, and six of them go as far as they can, 40 percent of them are banned from having a job and from having a job. According to the National Ministry of Education report, 36,401 girls leave school after secondary school. The Ministry of National Education is giving us some data, and we're asking: how much did we get into school? What is the status of our girls? Yes, the schooling rate is very well given, it's said by the AKP government: it was that much before we started, we came here. It's very good, so if everything you've accomplished helps our nation, our country, it gives us happiness. But it's not enough for these kids to just go to school. How much of his training can he continue? He left over 200,000 children's education. What's the gender ratio of these kids? What is the fate of these children? Are these children married, employed as workers, or on the street? We need to know all this. It's just not right to brag about what we do, to cover up what we don't do. We're looking at women's murders: 46 between the ages of 0 and 12 years of 2010, 114 between 13 and 18 years of age, 318 from 19 to 25, 651 women between 26 and 40 years of age -- I don't want to say 651 women -- I don't want to say that they've been given statistics, but in all, 1,587 women have lost their lives. I can give you the numbers one by one from 2010 to 2016, but if you want them, you'll find them very comfortable in statistics. And I don't want to spend my time reading them one by one, but just so you know, if these early marriages happen, there's a better chance that our girls will lose their lives. Because women in these 15-24-year-old groups are exposed to physical or sexual violence at about three times the age of 45-49, the oldest group. I mean, when they're young, they don't have a chance to protect themselves. Again, violence at work is pathetic. Our women get violent at work, they get mobbed, they get sexually harassed, and unfortunately, many of them don't get paid. Because he's afraid of social pressure, he's afraid of losing his reputation in the face of moral values, he's incapable of even fighting them. Unfortunately, there's no law against violence against women, and there's no law that covers it, I'm afraid. We can't protect our women from enough violence. So, why is this happening? I'll tell you. First of all, a woman needs to be stopped from doing politics on behalf of the valued lawmakers. What she should wear, how she should laugh, how she should walk around when she's pregnant, how she should bear, how many children she should bear; it's not the basis of politics. The leaders need to be very careful what they say, and you know why? Because -- as we look at it -- and you're bragging about it -- and you're saying, "Dear AKP lawmakers, we've got 50 percent of the nation's vote. " Well, then you have to be responsible for the behavior of that part of the vote, because it's the leadership's saying that encourage people to do certain things, to apply certain wrong behaviors. Again, we also know how much our women's problems and depression are superior, but I -- and my time is running out -- I want to remind you of the words of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who says that a society is made up of two kinds of people called a nation, a man and a woman. Is it possible that if half of one society remains chained to the ground, and the other part can ascend to the heavens? We, today, still have to fight against the laws that will bring up the violence of our women and allow them to be married at an early age, I'm sure that our Ancestor, his bones are aching, and his spirit is not at ease. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0056par0413	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. In favour of the proposal, the second statement belongs to İstanbul MP Gibraltar. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0057par0417	Thank you, Mr. President. I have been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party that the People's Party has proposed a group on all kinds of violence against women. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, it is not only because of such traits as physical violence, killing, burning, such as this, but rather because it is a social pressure, control, a condition that should be controlled, it is necessary to talk about a full public obligation to a person. Without revealing this extent of violence, all analysis will be incomplete and the search for solutions will be in vain. For example, if we start through the education system, TÜİK data shows that in 2014, Turkey was 2% of men aged 25 and higher and illiterate, 9% of women. After seeing the woman's whereabouts in the educational data shared in detail by Mr. Depboylu, the increase in early marriages continues as a result of this reality. Despite the healthy and non-inclusive data of the TÜİK (TİK), this ratio is expressed, especially in our eastern regions. Therefore, to fight violence against women, the issue of early marriage must be considered first. Yes, valuable lawmakers, these results in our educational system are directly reflected in her employment. Another aspect of violence against women is the male-female ratio in the employment market. According to TÜİK data, women's employment within the population of 15 years and higher in Turkey is unfortunately unable to exceed 30 per cent, and we are unable to achieve a significant increase. The last laws we adopted were incomplete at the point of solving this problem, so we couldn't even have a healthy discussion of the woman's position and employment with flexible hours, and the opposition's criticism and contributions were not taken into account. We don't believe there's a legal arrangement to involve her further in business. Dear lawmakers, we are constantly on edge at the Gender Inequality Index, which evaluates the status of women in the economic, education, health and politics of the World Economic Forum. Again, according to the newly published Turkish Gender Offensive Report, which was evaluated by this forum, Turkey ranked in the 130th place in the Gender Inequality Index, and declined in the report released in November. Again, the glass ceiling index of the Economist 2016 brought together various data such as women's participation in higher education, child care costs, permits and legal rights, upper and middle management, representation of women in parliament and the male-female wage difference. Turkey is ranked second to second in the index, which includes these indicators, in all of 29 OECD countries. Yes, valuable lawmakers, this disadvantaged table in education, employment and inequality for women, and in addition to these concrete data, the increase in physical violence towards women at the beginning of the most fundamental problems facing women. The policy of 14-year-old AKP governments is crucial to this scale. In our country, economic straits, debt-raising, unemployment, and social exclusion, unhappiness, unrest, and insecurities have led to social violence, insufferability and polarization, with which we are faced, unfortunately, with total violence. According to the results of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy's study of domestic violence against women, the number of women exposed to physical violence from their spouse or from the person they live with throughout the country is up to 36 percent. In other words, violence against women during the AKP administrations increased by 1,400 per cent. Again, the increase in suicide cases is another sign of violence against women. Again, the rate of suicide in young girls in a 13-19-year-old group is increasing, according to TİK data. Dear lawmakers, we face at least 1 woman's murder every day in 14 years when the AKP governments have been in power and have even experienced an increase. In the year alone, at least 249 women were brutally murdered by men, and 19 women were killed before the end of November. Yes, the Council of Europe Convention on violence and domestic violence against the woman who was known as the Istanbul Convention on violence against women with the great contribution of the Women's Opportunity Equality Commission and all members of the political parties in your rule during March 2012 is a major gain for our country and for the fight against them, but despite the fact that national and international data, according to the table of indexes, there is no significant improvement in violence against women, despite the agreement we signed in 2012. We signed this contract, yes, but I'm afraid the concrete work on the harmonisation of the contract with our justice system has not been done. Again, according to the contract, social gender equality was not part of our education curriculum, nor was the need for social awareness and awareness created in this area, unfortunately. The fact that civil society organizations are particularly involved in cases of violence and sexual abuse has not been explained, although the AKP governments, as in many areas, have not tried to make a common struggle to stop women's murders, only with the pressure and stubbornness of their own policies, have weakened this struggle. You're only listening to our proposals for legal arrangements and solidarity with the victims, but unfortunately you're not considering them in the process of making decisions. Dear lawmakers, just last week in the middle of the night, a very important part of our citizens and NGOs opposed the legal arrangement you brought to institutionalize sexual abuse, not only us, but your understanding of this administration. Against this policy, we have seen once again that the political institution, especially the ruling party, must learn important lessons, in the face of the women's strong stance, their unity against differences, their co-existence, and their efforts over politics. Because of your majority and stubborn understanding of law enforcement for 14 years, there are no legal protective measures necessary. For this reason, women are initially subjected to violence and even death by their spouses, and in public areas they are subjected to uncompensated violence by men, and unfortunately, our students, our children, are being sexually abused and sexually abused. With the taking of the views of all concerned and the decision-making process of these views in order to establish strong and lasting laws, we can only solve very sensitive problems between all parts of society and, of course, all kinds of violence against women, children's sexual abuse. Dear lawmakers, we, not because of International War Day Against Violence Against 25 November, will fight every day, every day, as it has been with representatives of NGOs and women's organisations, and after that, to prevent violence and murder, even to end. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0058par0433	Thank you. Now, the second and final speaker against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Bursa MP Emine Yavuz Göver. Here you go, Mr. Yavuz.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0059par0437	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the HDP group proposal. On November 25, 1999, the United Nations General Assembly announced International Day of Fighting Against Violence Against Women in order to raise awareness in society. Violence against women is not only the problem of our country, but the problem of the whole world, but a common, social problem in both developed and developing countries. According to one study, women who have been exposed since the age of 15, the most violent by their former partner or other men are 52 per cent in Denmark and 47 per cent in Finland and 46 per cent in Sweden. And that tells us that violence against women is not a problem, even in countries leading the social gender equality index. In the United States, one woman is beaten or raped by her husband or wife every 15 seconds, nearly two women are killed a week by her husband or wife in England, half the victims of all murders in Bangladesh are killed by their spouse. Of course, it is not possible for us to be insensitive to this phenomenon of violence from all over the world and not be insensitive. The Women's Equality Commission, established in our Parliament in 2009, created a subcommittee for the detection of the legislation and the shortcomings in implementation in preventing violence against women, and provided experts on this subject with heard and well-advised proposals for solutions. The problem with the EC PARTY's power has been discussed with social, cultural, family, individual, economic, all sizes, and has taken major reformal steps to prevent violence against women. The European Council Convention on fighting against violence and prevention of domestic violence has been among the first countries to sign the Istanbul Convention. Not only did they sign, but the Law for the Protection of Family 6284 to protect women from physical, sexual, psychological, and economic violence, to be carried out immediately afterwards. This law has brought protective and preventive measures, and analysis of the impact in preventing violence has been established, and problems in implementation have been detected. Again, within the scope of the law, the Alo 183 call line serves 24/7, establishing violent prevention and monitoring centres in 49 counties. The protocol signed between the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice and the implementation of electronic handcuffs with which the perpetrator and the victim were followed is implemented in Ankara and İzmir. THE law provides protective and preventive measures and also services women and men to receive psychological support. Our Turkish Penal Code has also brought severe punishments for gender equality and preventing violence against women. In addition to the expression "Critual killings," the perpetrators were punished with the highest penalty. Of course, regulations and regulations alone are not enough. In this regard, training and seminars have been given to police, paramedics, public staff, faculty students, media workers, different trade groups, and studies continue. The arrangements and studies show that we have never been able to be insensitive to this subject. I believe that both the government and the opposition, civil society organizations, individuals, we all have responsibility and duty in preventing violence. In particular, terrorism is a comprehensive act of violence aimed at the human right to live, not just at women, but at the whole community of children, men and women. We have to fight with every terrorist organization that kills people, from their places, from their homes, from their daughters, from the mountains, abuses them, condemns them to become terrorists, uses them as live bombs, and acts of violence all together. Those who are insensitive in the fight against widespread violence, those who can't distance themselves from the terrorist organization, even those who have supported the terrorist organization, those who can't even call it a terrorist organization, are unfortunately the most important actor of the violence problem. We love what is created because of the Creator, because we are the children of such an ancient civilization. We believe that all creations should be treated with compassion and respect for men, women, men, children, all people, even things. Instead of the language of violence, I pray for mercy, and the tongue of love, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0060par0443	Thank you. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0061par0445	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit01spe0060par0446	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0060par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly. During the vote of the People's Democratic Party Group, the decision was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept the proposal, those who refuse, there is enough of a decision, the proposal is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Friday 25/11/2016 (today), I respectfully submit that the following proposal of our group should be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. The meeting of the Grand National Assembly agenda of Turkey (10/229) of the Parliamentary Assembly was proposed to be held in the General Assembly's 25/11/2016 Friday-day (now) merger of the General Assembly (now) to determine the measures which should be taken by investigating the issues of the milk producers in the part of the General Assembly's General Assembly. The first statement in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is from Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Gaytancioğlu.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0062par0016	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our Republican People's Party Group's proposal on the issues of milk producers. The year is 1987. There is a disease going on in the United States, which began in Europe, called the mad cow disease. It scorches the entire world, especially in cattle, and countries take precautions. In those years, the Republic of Turkey is taking a really good measure and banning imports from abroad -- red meat, living animals, whatever -- and it says: "I intend to produce my own material, I plan to provide it from internal sources. For this purpose, breeding troops are being formed. The breeding forces established under the Ministry of Agriculture are doing fine work all over Turkey, and we welcome our native breeding to the Holstein races, an imported race -- the black and white animals you see. Yeah, we're gonna be in this one's milk in a minute. In this way, these races that adapt to Turkey help us produce milk and produce meat, and our production is growing steadily. Then there are some developments in the world. Here are the developments: The World Trade Organization is being established, and the pressure begins to say, "Why don't you import?" We're protecting ourselves with a very high customs tax, 250 percent customs tax. By 2008, we don't import a kilogram of meat, we don't import a single single animal; we only allow breeding animal imports, we hybridize it with indigenous races. It's a good, successful policy. Our milk production is rising from 10 million tons to 18 million tons. Since these animals are also meat animals, they somehow support the production of meat. Only what happened is after that year, after 2008, it's destabilizing. Why? An imbalance between meat and milk because no matter how conscious the Ministry of Agriculture has a policy, the balance of meat is not balanced; because it can't improve its meat races, a serious difficulty begins to be cut off because the price of meat is rising; after cutting, meat prices rise with a serious meat crisis in 2009, and Turkey, unfortunately, is becoming addicted to importing 500 million dollars of animals by importing meat. Now, that's good. So, there was the Milk Industries Foundation, there was the Meat and Fish Foundation; what did we do with them? We sold them because of the value of their land, because of the value of their building, we privatized them. And the logic was, does the government sell milk or does the government sell meat? Yes, the state also sells milk and the state sells meat; that is the logic of the Republican People's Party. Now, they couldn't maintain that balance, and they became addicted to imports. From 2010 to September 2016 -- I've got the numbers -- we've imported $8.2 billion in animal imports. The last thing we're going to do yesterday is talk about the Agriculture Ministry budget, allowing 500,000 animals to enter, and then we're going to allow it up to 31/12. What kind of politics is that? We give our money to the farmers of other countries, to the feeders, to the cattle farmers, and when our own farmer comes, we don't give him anything; it's a shame. Now, do you know what happens when female animals are slaughtered? We're deprived of his milk and his offspring ahead, not a conscious policy, my friends. I really want my support on this motion here. Why? The price of milk is $1.7. Now, I just got off the phone with my friend, who's going to talk to my friend after me, and he says, "That's great, we've got $1.3 cents." We're asking Denizli, İzmir. We have 95 cents. What did the Minister of Agriculture say? I'll keep it steady for $1.15. There's no such thing. So you can't balance the markets. Look, I'm also a scientist, I did research, and this cow costs $23 a day. So the amount of bait, along with vet costs, costs $23, but it pays us $21.5. So now the milk manufacturers are at a loss. The farmer sells 1 litre of milk, buys 1 kilogram of food; such an account is not available anywhere in the world. The logical policy of this is that you sell two litres of milk, and in return you get six to seven kilograms of food, which is one to five. It's one to three, but right now it's one to one; it's a shame, it's a sin! And then what happens? The meat animals are going back to the slaughter. Why? Because when you feed them as dairy, they're hurting, the owners are moving from village to town, and our money is going to waste. Look, from 2010 to September 2016, we imported 1,83,000 cattle, 2 million, 207,000 small animals. So the logic is that if we didn't import these animals, we wouldn't be able to have a Victim's Day, so you wouldn't be able to get in the calf, so you couldn't cut the coach. It's a shame, isn't it? Why don't we make our own animals? And did the price of meat go down in exchange for this import? No. At the beginning of 2010, the price of meat was 18 liras, now 40 liras. I mean, why are you importing? Oh, it's so simple, to protect the followers. You allow the so-called Meat and Milk Foundation, breeders, red meat troops, but import companies do, and most of them are subsidiaries. What does the Department of Agriculture say to us, by the way? The Ministry of Agriculture says: "I have multiplied the number of cattle enterprises, before, when I was not in power, there were 4,300 businesses over 50 head animals, now there are 31,450 businesses, so businesses have grown." So, what about the migration from the village to the city? What do these people eat, what do they drink? The countryside's empty, has it contributed? No. So, what did we do to expand these businesses? We gave him zero interest. From 2010 to 2015, we gave 9.3 billion -- friends, all of us are taxed, and this comes out of the pocket of a manufacturer who can't get paid for his sweat -- the price of the meat didn't go down. Look, where are the taxes going? Here's another photo. It's an animal business. There were a thousand animals in this, where is it now? No. Because what doesn't? You don't have mera with you. The bait is expensive. If you don't do an animal service based on ceremony, if you do an animal service based entirely on factory vows, you're going to lose it. So let's sit this out, make sense. If we want to protect the local manufacturer, we want to repay the farmer's hard work, let's work it out together. That's the logic of it. We have to raise the price of milk. Okay, let's protect the industrialist, but you give the industrialist $4,500 per to protect the industrialist, and as for the manufacturer, you drop the nine-cent bonus for six cents. Shouldn't you do the opposite? Yes, you have to do the opposite. Well, in the countries of the European Union -- so, are we going in or out these days -- they don't want us -- the price of meat is 3 euros, 4 euros, or 5 euros -- we have 12 to 13 euros, so we have almost three times the difference. So we can't run animal policy like this, save our farmer from debt, interest, mortgage pressure. So we have to follow a steady meat, milk policy. I'd like to say again that that's not going to happen in the Republican People's Party's government. In Asia Minor and Thrace, whose geography is suitable for agriculture, we will all form a Turkey that produces it. We want a country that breeds, but divides properly. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you all. And I want support for our motion.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0063par0034	Thank you. The first word against the proposal is from Ankara MP Erkan Haberal. Here you are, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0064par0038	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the issues of milk prices and dairy producers in Turkey. Members of parliament, I believe it would not be wise in Turkey to evaluate the milk problem, the milk prices, and the producers' problems just by looking at them by milk. Milk in Turkey is also dependent on agriculture; milk in Turkey is also dependent on animalism; milk in Turkey is also dependent on regional geographical conditions; it also depends on education. There's an educational side to this. If we generalize in Turkey, there's milk and dairy industry, there's farmers, there's peasants, there's farmers, there's producers as big farms, there's producers as family businesses, there's seasonal dairy, there's huge industrial businesses. The biggest problem in Turkey today is the gathering of the large industries of dairy businesses in the Aegean and Marmara regions, cheaper prices in other areas, less industry, more milk and dairy products do not use enough Rantabl. Regional differences have been particularly significant, evident in the Eastern Anatolian region. The manufacturers in the Eastern Anatolian region are in a very difficult situation. Milk producers owe the government a lot of money, owe the government a lot of money, and they're in a state of inability to know what to do. What are the uses of raw milk in Turkey? In Turkey, 27 per cent of raw milk is consumed in modern factories, 33 per cent in dairy, 20 per cent in businesses, while street vendors sell the remaining 20 per cent on the streets. The average price of milk now differs regionally in Turkey. At $1.08 in the Eastern Anatolian Region, Denizli has a difference between 90 cents in the region and $1.3 in Ankara and $1.4 in the region of Marmara. Speaking of the problems of the milk industry in Turkey, we have to make a serious difference between the industrialist and the manufacturer. There's no way we can tell them both apart. In Turkey, the problems of the milk sector are fundamental, fragmented structures important, quality lowness is important, high cost is important, efficiency is important; informality, lack of information, health, support and organisation are a serious problem. Besides, there's a part of the job by the manufacturer, the part by the industrialist. The manufacturer is always complaining about industry. It's because they've been keeping raw milk prices at the same price for the last year and a half, especially because they've been raising prices in the industry. Can we blame the industrialist for that? No. Why? Entrance costs in our country have increased, minimum wage has increased, electricity prices have increased, but the milk producer has suffered from it. What needs to be done is that the milk producer needs to be supported in a much more serious way, to be encouraged by the state. I said the problems of the milk industry in Turkey; the lack of structure and quality. The most fundamental feature of what I refer to as the fragmented structure of Turkey is that regional criteria differ. In the Eastern Anatolian and Southeast Anatolian regions in particular, in part the length of winter in the Black Sea region reduces milk efficiency considerably. It is not appropriate for food safety to be harvested today, especially in small businesses, with antibiotics, unsupervised and hot. The cold chain is not used especially in small businesses. One of the most important outcomes is the protection of at least the cold chain by expanding the scale of small businesses, village businesses. Another issue is lack of knowledge and health. In particular, losses from the lack of information about animal health and nutrition by rural producers are very serious. Due to the lack of animal care in healthy conditions, the last year, there have been nearly a million animals lost, destroyed in this country. The lack of vaccination is one of the most important reasons. In particular, that's why in our country, we're not aware that brusella, tuberculosis, and especially breast disease in female heifers are very common. We said high cost and low efficiency. Milk prices have been fixed for a year and a half in the country and have even fallen backwards in some areas. Milk companies can't find enough and quality milk. The number of organisms falling to milliliters in the world is less than 200,000, while Turkey's average is around 1.5 million. Turkey -- the best -- encourages the state and private sector to bring about 200,000 per milliliter. The best, most excellent milk makers are what we now call farms. Their production is around 150,000 per milliliter. There are no more than three or five of them. Unregisteredness is a very serious factor in milk production. More than 2 million tonnes of milk produced annually are produced by rural families. These are free of any control or support from the state, completely unregistered production and selling on the streets, and many of them are already unfit for human health due to production conditions. One of the most important institutions for milk producers is organisation. The country's breeding milk union producers, meat producers, have established troops, but are unable to contribute to the country's economy and dairy producers in its own areas. One of the main reasons is that they are free of government control and internal control. An example? Example: Ankara Dairy Association. The establishment of cooperatives in milk production is essential, but marketing in co-op is essential, especially by the state, to make a healthy regional distribution. Supports, co-ops and co-ops must be controlled by the state until they can get refrigeration tanks from milk collection to milk quality control. Summer and winter prices have to be different prices, surely they must be blocked, they must go at a common price. As you know, the price of milk is increasing because milk is low in winter, and it's turning to milk dust. Although the government supports milk powder producers, it does not support the small manufacturer. It's a serious problem for Turkey. The development of dairy products in the sector is one of the most important issues. There has been no serious progress in Turkey's sector so far. Why wasn't it removed? Every power, every government and every government you look at is allowed to import when you look at it, but each area has been brought to different kinds of cattle, regardless of the geographical conditions, without looking at the areas. What's brought in? Holstein was brought in, Angus was brought in, Jersey was brought in, limo was brought in, Hereford was brought in, Belgian blue was brought in. But what did we say? Education is essential. The peasant saw the cow he had never seen before him, and saw the heifer he had never seen before him. If you give a peasant who feeds his animal and gains 300 kilograms in 12 months without training an animal that weighs 500 kilograms in six months, the peasant will sell it. He doesn't know he's not supposed to sell, peasant. We said the quality of raw milk. Raw milk is one of the biggest problems in the business. I'm afraid we're missing the quality in payment for the milk delivered. I said don't break the cold chain. I said fight animal disease. To increase the production of milk, the quality-price relationship in milk must be well assessed. The farmer who brings quality milk needs more encouragement, more support. Today we see that the number of Ari farms is very few in our country, and the number of Ari farms must be increased by the state by further support. We said the cost of raw milk was high, which is a very important issue. One of the big reasons why raw milk costs so much is because the food costs too much. There's a lot of bait costs, and that's the point I just said, agriculture needs to be supported. But in agriculture, the feed plant manufacturers need a lot more support. Why? So we don't import hay from abroad, so we don't import sheep from abroad. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Today, 500,000 head animals were destroyed by the country, and last year, a million animals were destroyed. I was going to say VAT, and I couldn't. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0065par0062	Thank you, Mr. Haberal. The second word in favour of the proposal belongs to Mud MP Ahmet Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0066par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, yes, the crisis in many sectors of the country is naturally happening in the animal industry and especially in terms of dairy producers. We're not dealing with a crisis that only concerns dairy producers or animal manufacturers alone. For the past year and a half, the economy of crisis and war has been based on agriculture, animalism, tourism, exports, imports, all based on this economy of war and crisis. I'd like to say that the country's failure to manage properly, rather than a peaceline in the administration process, the monitoring of tension policies on the inside and the outside is about the creation of new crises. In 2015, raw milk production reached 18.6 million tonnes, according to TİK data. Of course, raw milk production has increased in the country, but with production, two things need to increase: one, consumption with production has not increased; two, exports of surplus products with production have not increased. We don't already have a foreign policy that can support the increase of exports in 2014 -- in the year 2015 and 2016 -- that can provide infrastructure, that can provide grounds for this. I'd like to point out that we don't have a line and a political perspective that deals in good faith with our neighbors. Of course, production has increased, but especially the price of bait, which is equivalent to foreign currency, increasing the price of food in livestock, has made the producers much more difficult. Because, with the exchange, the price of bait has gone up, but especially because of the increased tonnage in raw milk production, the price of milk has gone down. As of this point, we are back to the 2008 conditions. As in 2008, raw milk producers, unfortunately, can't take the bait, can't feed the animal, can't raise it better. The Department of Agriculture is meeting with sector components after meeting. No doubt meeting with sector components in terms of dialogue is a good thing, but having meetings alone does not indicate a solution to a problem, nor does it bring a solution to its naturality. The export of all of this, especially the surplus production, is a matter of the right foreign policy of a country. We have expressed it yesterday, and we will express it today, no doubt asking God's mercy for all who have lost their lives in this conflict and in the war. But look, the government still hasn't been able to properly inform the Parliament about the three soldiers killed yesterday in the El Bab operation or the operational staff there. Now, they say they were shot in the air. So, whose plane hit it? The Turkish Armed Forces are just passing a sentence, and that sentence is estimated to have been shot by the regime forces. Think about it. There has been an operation there for ninety-three, ninety-four days today, where there is no healthy information about the attack of troops, or even if there is one, this Parliament is not informed correctly. Now, while reviewing some foreign agencies today -- let government officials deny these foreign agencies -- it is said that troops were shot down by Russian planes on the anniversary of last year's landing of Russian planes. Some foreign agencies write this down, but Mevlüt Sergeant, Foreign Minister Mr. Sergeant, said yesterday: "We have delivered our concerns to our clients. We ask ourselves: Who are our concerns? Then you know the power to shoot these soldiers out of the air, and why don't you explain? Was Syria the regime or Russia the answer? Did he shoot down Russian planes that cleared Mount Turkmen of the Bayır Bucak Turkmen last year? The State Department or a government official must come and inform this House correctly. If this is the way foreign policy works, you can't export the products that we produce on the basis of agricultural or animalism within the framework of economic relations that are based on the right foreign policy. I repeat, who shot the security forces that were killed yesterday in the operation? Mevlüt Çavluçoğlu has expressed that we have delivered our concerns to our neighbors. Who are the issues he calls? Is it E.R.O., regime, Russia? Because it makes sense that on the anniversary of the Russian plane being shot down by Turkey last year, security units were especially attacked there. Again, some Russian and European-based agencies say it was bombed by Russian planes. If Mr. Sergeant knows about this, either he or a government official must come and inform the Assembly. The question remains in the middle. Another issue: Precious lawmakers, look, domestic politics is corrupting foreign policy relations, and wrong foreign policy relations are affecting domestic politics. Misfitised foreign policy affects the agriculture, animalism and tourism sector and the components of this sector, but this foreign policy distortion reflected in domestic politics, in the same way -- as it was made in the European Parliament's decision yesterday -- has put the country in the interest of the international community. Decisions made by political power and misguided foreign policy not only affect political power, 79 million people are affected by foreign currency. I'm going to say one sentence about the central management budget of 2017, which will come to the General Assembly in ten days. Look, on the way to Parliament today, Mr. Finance Minister said on the radio: "Our budget for central management of 2017 will be affected by the dry fluctuation. I give you a number, open it, enter the Internet, and let's calculate together how many billion dollars we've been affected. As a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, I say: On October 31st, the Plan and Budget Commission presented the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill, while the 2017 budget was announced by Mr. Agbal as $641 billion; 641 billion, 641 quadrillion with the old money. When Mr. Finance Minister presented this to the Commission on October 31st, our $641 billion was $207.8 billion, over that day's currency, see, when it was presented to the Commission, the international value of our budget was 207.8 billion; and enter and calculate it through today's currency, down to 183 billion dollars. In just 24 days, the international loss of our money is $25 billion. Who can argue that this is not the result of a surge in foreign currency from the wrong foreign policy? If not, I don't know how the Minister calculated the $3 billion. This could be the erosion he's been experiencing in the internal market, so we have to add that to this $25 billion loss. Because in agriculture, livestock, tourism, industry, and many economic sectors, there's no firm left to do anything without currency, no dollars, no euros. This company does not need to be an international firm, exports or imports company, but it affects even a few pounds of food that a farmer has taken directly, and it affects the gasoline or diesel that each of us has stuffed into his vehicle, and we all know that. If it's not, it'll pass us by. It's a reflection of the international crisis. It doesn't mean anything beyond a hammock. Come on, let's say the dollar increased as a result of the global reflection except for us. So, what's the euro up to? The pound is increasing according to what? The yen is increasing according to what? There's no need to fool each other, it's not just dollar value, Turkish money is losing value. In just 24 days, our central management budget of 2017 has lost $25 billion. You can also divide 641 billion into that day's courtship, 3.07. You can also divide it into the current one, which is 3,46. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0067par0078	Thank you. The second and final speaker against the proposal is Karaman MP Recep Sukur. Here you go, Mr. Guest.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0068par0082	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of our group to investigate the status of the milk producers and the National Milk Council of the Republican People's Party Group. I hereby salute the High Council and our noble nation. Members of parliament, first of all, as a producer, as a farmer who is still a producer, I congratulate the CHP Group for its recent growing interest in the agricultural sector. The CHP finally realized it had to deal with concrete issues outside of the abstract areas of politics.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0069par0085	Mr. President, why don't you take care of it and we'll take care of it together?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0068par0086	I think this is an important development for the political atmosphere and for our nation.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0069par0087	Let's get this commission together.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0068par0088	It is a positive and important development for them, even though the CHP has been delayed, that some of our nation has started to participate in its daily talks, in its politics. In fact, it's a transformation we haven't seen much of. The proposal to set up a research commission to investigate the situation of the milk manufacturer we discussed today is also a delayed suggestion. CHP is about eight or nine months late. It's been eight or nine months since I heard about the milk manufacturer's issues as usual. Dear lawmakers, there is no need to set up commissions to investigate the state of milk producers, to conduct commission research, to hold endless meetings, if you speak directly to the manufacturer, if you speak directly to the manufacturer who is producing it, you are already exposed to the issue. That's what our government has already done. When did he do it? He did it at the beginning of 2016. Our Minister and Ministry officials listened to the producer at the producer's foot during regional meetings; not enough, they discussed the issue with the manufacturer and the manufacturer who produced it, and developed a two-step solution package: First, the solution to today's issue is to treat the wound; second, build the issue long-term so that it doesn't happen again. What was the problem with the farmer? He didn't know how much he was going to sell milk prices, so the manufacturer didn't know how much he was going to sell it for tomorrow. Why? The imbalance between supply and demand. Why was the manufacturer complaining? You're the price of milk. As a result of this problem, there was concern about the delivery of maternal animals to the slaughter, or rather, we were all concerned. Our government took such precautions without delay, and what did it do? First, he removed the VAT from the bait, which reduced the cost of the vow to reduce the cost of milk. Another tasked the Meat and Milk Foundation to promote market regulation in order to eliminate supply demand imbalance as a matter of interest. Starting in March, the Meat and Milk Association made a purchase of 214,000 tonnes of milk to keep milk prices from falling, so it averaged an average of 1,000 tonnes of milk per day. This purchase -- for the sake of argument -- is about a day's purchase of a large-scale business. And thirdly, it's been passed on to milk dust. The fourth measure again triggered the School Milk Project to increase demand. Apart from these short-term solutions, he also started a structural transformation programme so that future problems would not happen. In fact, a long-term program was enriched by new applications. For example, major steps have been taken in the field of livestock as part of the national agricultural policy. He's identified basins where breeding and breeding will be supported. Dear lawmakers, our country's animalism, especially the biggest problem of dairy production, is the quality of milk produced and efficiency per animal head. It's not a matter we're dealing with today, it's a matter of centuries. And it's not very possible to change that from today to tomorrow. We need to implement a program that will change the quality and quality of our country with persevering determination and determination. Our ministry has taken steps to strengthen the steps taken earlier, and will continue to take them. This change is important in this respect. The milk and milk products we produce are facing two obstacles on the outside markets. First, the price; second, the quality standards of our products are not particularly in the European market standards. I mean, when we're on the outside markets, we run into two obstacles. First, price competition; second, because of our Pack properties and quality standards, are quality problems based on reasons such as somatic cell surplus in products. To overcome these issues, to overcome the price problem, we need to increase milk efficiency per animal to strengthen our competitive nature. In order to expand our market capabilities, we need to increase our product standards to increase demand, and to do so, we need to improve the quality of the milk produced. There's only one way to improve the quality of the pack. So, you're going to increase efficiency per animal, and you're going to create a lot of better milk. This is not a job that will take place from today to tomorrow; it is a long-term and patient program that must be implemented. What are you going to start with? Milk efficiency is high, you're going to be in line with our climate conditions, and you're going to make the bee breeder the country's livestock. We are all aware that our government has already taken an important step in this matter. Distributively, we removed the system where everyone was importing studs in their own way, and we started to do the breeding imports through our Ministry within a program. So, when we bring breeding for food or milk production, what our Ministry considers appropriate, high-profit races and species can now be brought to the country's territory in accordance with the conditions of our country. An important step has been taken to change the herd in hand, and we will begin to get the results in the middle term. As a result, important distances have been taken as a result of the programs our governments have implemented to improve the quality of our country's herd, while Turkey produced 8,408,000 tonnes of milk in 2002, while in 2015 it increased to 18 million 645,000 tonnes. In 2002, Turkey received a total of 7m490 thousand tonnes of milk from 4 million milk cows, while in 2015, it managed to buy a total of 16m 933,000 tonnes of milk from 5m 535,000 milk cows. I mean, he did the quality increase there. So, in other words, when you take 1,705 kilograms of milk per animal, you get 3.059 kilograms today. In order to improve the quality of the herd since 2002, the government's ministry's programme has seen about 40 percent increase in milk per milk cow in 14 years. According to some countries that have stepped up in dairy and dairy products... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...our yield to the animal is still behind them. However, it is a process, and our ministry has taken new measures and has insisted since 2002...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0070par0095	Thank you, Mr. Guest.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0068par0096	I'll get right on it. ...we continue to increase the quality and efficiency of the adapting pack. The research commissions of our agricultural sector and the dairy producers are not about politics, but about firm policies based on production.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0071par0099	Thank you, Mr. Guest.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0068par0100	...that you need it, and that you have a government to enforce it, and that we will vote on this delayed proposal by the CHP, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0071par0102	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0072par0103	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0071par0104	Mr. Gaytancioğlu.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0072par0105	Mr. Orator has targeted our party group directly by saying we're too late, so I'd like two minutes' promise.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0071par0106	He said you switched from abstract politics to concrete politics. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0072par0110	Mr. President, we're the Republican People's Party, we know who we're going with when we're building this country; we're on the road with the villagers. Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk gave those villagers the title of master of the militia. That master is in a very difficult situation today. As Republican People's Party, we've always been on the side of the master, always expressing policies for the master here, in every environment. In all our election declarations, there are concrete policies for agriculture. You were just beginning to realize those concrete policies. You have performed the resetting of the VAT, which you copied from us in the November 1st election, not in the June 7th elections, but in the November 1st election; the bait prices have increased, and you haven't even succeeded. What did we say? We have all our election promises. Without VAT and OTV, we'll give it to the farmer. We said there would be $1.5 in the last election, and you've only just been half of you, half of us, and half of us are not in the budget, so that promise won't be fulfilled in the 2017 budget. So you're just talking, but we, the Republican People's Party, are proud to have our proposals copied because our proposals are always on the side of the master. Let's not import, those exchanges... look, the exchange goes from $3.5 to $3.5. Isn't it a pity that all the animals that grow in Turkey can grow wheat, barley, sunflowers, corn, and soy - why do we pay for them? Why do we give 8-9 billion dollars to Russia, Italy, France instead of to our own farmer? We, the Republican People's Party, are always on the side of the peasant who produces it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0073par0116	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0074par0119	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit02spe0073par0120	Before the Republican People's Party submits the group proposal to your votes, there is a request for a meeting of sufficient numbers, and I will meet him first. Mr. Gök, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Akın, Mr. Bektaşoğlu, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Green, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Öz, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Emir, Mr. Sarıbal, Mr. Torun, Mr. Bekçınkaya, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Cier. Yes, I'll give you three minutes to call in the number of meetings, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0073par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. ll. - Exposure Before the vote of the Republican People's Party group, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Friday 25/11/2016 (today), I request that the following proposal of our group be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President Until the meeting of the General Assembly on Friday (November 25th 2016) of the 405th Bill of Law (now) was completed; Until the meeting of Tuesday (November 29th, 2016) was completed by the 340th Bill of Law; Until the meeting of Wednesday (November 30, 2016), until the meeting of the 302-tier Bill of the Law, the talks were completed; On Thursday (December 1, 2016) until the meeting of the talks of the 390 rows of legislation until the completion of the talks; On Friday (December 2nd 2016) the completion of the talks of business until the bill of law, number 169 in its merger on Friday (December 2nd 2016); It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. It has been suggested that daily programs continue to work until the completion of the daily programmes if they cannot be completed. On the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group, the first statement in favour of Bartın MP Yilmaz Bronzeç is in favour of the group. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0075par0030	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the AK PARTY group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. The EC PARTY group proposal is a proposal for the Council's working days and hours. On December 5th, we will begin negotiations with the 2017 budget, but before the budget talks begin, we have two important legislations on the agenda that we would like to legislate. One is the bill of the National Ministry of Education, which we plan to continue until Article 12 of the Law and Law, which shall be passed by the State of the Law and by the State of the Law, which we plan to continue today. This is a bill of our Ministry of National Education that contains important regulations on duty, authority, control. In this bill, there is also a very important law that we discussed yesterday about the protection of children, especially the housing service to students, the boarding house, the boarding house, whatever name it is under, whether it is run by municipalities or private sectors, which includes licenses for housing of dorms and other places, students, which are given by the Ministry of National Education and audits by the Ministry of Education. In this regard, we are all sensitive in the sense that children are protected, especially in the sense of preventing child abuse. The National Ministry of Education, including this article, has the benefit of enforcing the amendments to certain Laws and Laws in accordance with the State of the Law on the Offices of the Agency and the Offices of the Ministry of Education, and its legalisation of the Law shall be passed at once, until the end of today. Here, we expect this kind of support from the opposition. Again, the second important bill is the Bill of the Sunei Property Act. That's 200 points. We need to legalize this until the budget talks, because it's a bill that's been on the agenda of the House for years. Test property is a property right, fundamental right; this basic right needs to be protected. If we want our country to move forward in science and industry, brand, patent, they need to multiply and protect. We'd like to implement the Sunei Property Law Bill, which protects these, which includes very important regulations, before the budget, by working every day from Tuesday next week until the end of the day. We will have enough time to carry out these plans that will be beneficial for our nation, and then we will have enough time to make opposition, not only to make opposition, but to make opposition, to complete these plans and to implement them for our nation. I specifically ask them to take the second route. Today is November 25th, Women's Fighting Violence Day. It's a very sensitive matter, a very important matter. In terms of preventing violence against women, our country has taken very important measures in recent years, making legal arrangements. In 2012, we passed an important law on the protection of the family regarding preventing violence against women. In this law, we've made important arrangements for our women to take protective measures in a hurry to their property managers. Again, we have made important arrangements regarding the measures taken by the judge's decision. This is when the Istanbul Convention was signed again. In practice, women's guesthouses, anti-violence centers have all come to life during the AK PARTY rule. There are eight women's guesthouses in Turkey, and today there are over 100 women's guesthouses in our country. Of course the heart would want to make more of it. Hopefully, we're still multiplying. I also condemn the European Parliament's decision. The European Parliament must maintain the values of the European Union. The values of the European Union are democracy, human rights. Turkey is a candidate country facing a July 15 coup attempt. In fact, I would like to point out that I find it unfortunate that the European Union has decided to stop negotiations on behalf of Europe because it is fighting terrorists because it should be more powerful than it should be in Turkey, teaching democracy to the world against July 15 coupgers, and giving human rights lessons to the world. The AK PARTY wishes the group proposal to be a blessing, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0076par0037	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. The first word against the proposal belongs to Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0077par0041	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've given you the same example here before, once again: it's a famous rule of opinion; if you believe there are 99 criminals on a ship, if there are one innocent, you can't punish 99 people by sinking the ship. Because that person's rights can never be discussed or compared to the crime of 99. There's a lot of examples to be said, but one of them is because I know him so well. You know, the European Union that you condemned, the European Parliament, after July 15th, did not support your fight against terrorism, he didn't understand enough. In the Constitutional process, four years ago, Turkey is building a civil constitution. A association called "The Union" was founded, and it has only done constitutional studies, and so far, it has done no other activity. There's no one involved in the congregation among their founders, and I know them all personally. Only, friends, because the name of the association began as "Actif" was closed because it was an association name that started as "Aggressive Society" and it used the word "active" more. No inspections, no calls. You just go and file a petition and object. In fact, today, one of them was called Fetullah, and the teacher said: "Go tell your father and change that name. Dear friends, you couldn't have even investigated so many associations. You know how many people work at the fraternity table, and I know it. Most of these associations were made up by someone who had never known, who had no means to do any research, who sat down and crossed it out. So before we condemn the European Parliament, I think it's better to go back and face how serious we are running the process after July 15th. Now, you, of course, want the House to work fast. We're very clear. Our problem isn't about the national education law that will continue to be discussed today, or the test property law that you want to bring back before the budget. Our problem is that Turkey's fundamental problems in general cannot be discussed in this Parliament. A valuable congressman of yours has just made a very serious claim about, for example, the milkmaker. He said: "There is no need to set up a research commission -- we went to the manufacturers -- we met with the manufacturers, we know the problem." The problem with the milk producer in Kars is that they are forbidden by bows. Now, if you, instead of setting up a research commission and running it, instead of running it, we know, so, what's the need for the research commission? So if you see it as a waste of time, like a waste of time, as an obstacle, then that void will have other consequences, dear friends. Look, this Parliament has been working in 1920, while there is no republic and there is still a war going on, and there may be more tensions going on than there is today, and there is rebellion in Sakarya, and there is rebellion in Yozgat, which means that every day even when people are dying, it has to endure the opposition even more. He was more tolerant of the opposition's criticism, the opposition's efforts to establish a compromise for the country's interests, a partner's future. Of course, there were no parties that day, just the First Group, the Second Group, there was a system that described a different approach in itself, but even though it had been so long since we arrived, I think it's a responsibility to everyone's strength, that parliamentary culture, political culture, by a compromise, has not evolved into a common concept in the interest of the country. Now, of course, here, the opposition is using some of its rights in style, and you're reacting -- as you reacted yesterday. For example, you're saying that a roll call is an abuse. Dear friends, so many times about roll call, if it really bothers you, then the lawmakers in there have to stay here for the duration of their work and not go outside, as if it's about finishing a number here. I mean, the numbers in the Civil Code...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0078par0048	You're here, you're not in the system, you're not in the system.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0077par0049	Everyone sees that you're here right now, but, dear friends, an hour ago, when the research motion was being discussed, I counted, and you only had 11 friends inside. Now, if there are 11 people in attendance that complete 189, then you're just finishing the formality. You can save this job by formality, it's possible, you can afford it, but you can't do what's called legitimacy in a political decision with this, you can't afford it. I'll bring up a few very critical issues regarding the audit. Dear friends, for example, four years ago, five years ago, I looked at the debate about refugees here, and there's a border set by the state, the government, the administration. He says that 100,000 refugees at the time are our red line. So, if we go past 100,000, we'll do this, we'll do this, we'll do that. Now, politics is prediction, politics is planning. What would you do if 2,500 percent of the number you predicted was wrong? Turn around, look in the mirror. So we didn't read Syria right. We didn't read the Syrian population, Syrian demography, sociology, the balance of powers in Syria, the forces behind the forces that collided in Syria, and we were 2500 percent wrong. You've put a limit on 100,000 refugees, now there are 2.5 million refugees in this country. Now, when you're wrong about refugees or your predictions about the Syrian crisis, when a commission proposal comes in here, what should be done when a research proposal comes in? You already have a numerical majority when the commission is set up, so the decision will be made the way you want it to be. It is the opportunity to discuss this matter once more, to discuss it once more, not to read it as something against the country, but to do the opposite. So is it enough to go out here and remember those who lost their lives on Al-Bab, for example, to send a message of condemnation about it, to eliminate our political responsibility? Obviously we've done a false Syrian reading, we've been wrong, we've made a miscalculation, so isn't it time to sit down and plan again, and then do another inspection? They recommend calling the Commission on the most critical names of the coup, the opposition parties, the most critical names, and perhaps the names who know the entire background, you and your numerical majority pass the decision to make sure that these names don't come to the commission, and you get the job done. Now, isn't that the responsibility of this House on July 15th to this community, its mission, to about 250 people who have lost their lives? If the way to light up July 15th isn't to at least call in those who know the background, to talk, to listen, how is that possible? Dear friends, there's a lot to talk about, of course, but there was a request here a few days ago for research on economic indicators about currency figures, which was rejected again. Now, we don't know what number he's going to see in at least 40 to 40 days, at least 25 percent of the exchange plan, but there's now a change above 3,40. Now, is this painting something that can be avoided by words and slogans that have no such credibility, no economic seriousness? Dear friends, we're in a critical situation, we're at a critical point, and the majority of you are actually aware of the critical situation Turkey is in, but unfortunately we're saving the zewahir, and it's not going to mean much to talk here when the ship we're in is sinking, and it's not going to mean much to argue, it's not going to mean much to the parties to press each other, but let me finish by saying one thing. Please put the words of refugees on the table once again as we go through this. Refugees are human beings, and if refugees are really to be dealt with by the Ensar-Muslim law, they are not subjects to be taken to the door to threaten someone else. If you are sincere in your words, please -- in particular about the refugees -- at least correct these words from this platform, declare that you do not agree, that you do not follow your understanding of civilization, that you do not fit your cultural values. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0079par0057	Thank you. The second statement in favour of the proposal is from İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0080par0061	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the Justice and Development Party group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Our party's group proposal is about the working days, calendars and hours of our House. As of today, we will continue to work until the end of the current law, and due to budget talks, due to budget talks that will begin on December 5th, we are predicting the completion of two laws within the next week. One of them is the Patent Law, and one of them is the existing legal arrangement, which is related to the existing national education, which is the 12th Amendment. Therefore, working hours are scheduled for the end of Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, starting next week, with the end of the deadline as of every day. I hope and wish that with the support of the opposition parties, it would be with their support to pass these two laws that our people have been waiting for for years, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0081par0065	Thank you. Now, the second and final speaker against the proposal is Ankara MP Levent Gök ▪. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0082par0069	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we salute you with love. As we're used to it, a motion for working hours came again due to AKP's lack of plans. Welcome to the motion, pleasure. We're not afraid to work, let's work on Saturday, let's work on Sunday; let's make all kinds of laws for the benefit of our country together, by arguing about the opposition and the power, there's no hesitation in that. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey was shaken by a decision from the European Parliament yesterday. When we looked at this decision, we saw how Turkey's achievements in the outside world, in foreign policy throughout the history of the republic were reset, how its reputation was destroyed. Now, AKP spokesmen are up, challenging the European Union. They say we ignore your decision. Who are you? We don't know your decision. On December 18, 2004, the Prime Minister of this country, the current President, was greeted with enthusiasm in Ankara, at Esenboğa Airport. Thousands have come to the Red Moon. Fireworks were fired that no one saw during the day, and the Prime Minister said: "Today is a historic day. We're taking our place among modern countries. What happened to you? What happened to you?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0083par0073	What happened to the European Union? Ask him. Ask Europe. You'll have to ask Europe.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0082par0074	Your government program just five months ago-- shame, at least don't write that; be realistic, be sincere. Which AKP? I'm reading from the government programme: We see Turkey's full membership in the European Union as a strategic goal. See now? Are you violating the government program? You got the vote of confidence because of this program. What do you have to say? What do you say? What do you say?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0084par0075	Circumstances have changed.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0082par0076	Now, you think that the longer you scream here, the more Europe will understand you, the more the world will understand you. They don't understand, my dear friends. Look, I'm warning you as a group of vice presidents of the main opposition party. The Council of Europe arrived the other day, and the Greens arrived today. Don't do it, don't do it, we said in the European Union hold Turkey, but they, more than you, know Turkey; they know the torture claims in Turkey, the practices of the state of emergency, the bad management habits in Turkey, each one of them better than we do. How did you...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0085par0078	You're snitching.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0082par0079	We're fighting them. We say Turkey belongs in the European Union. Now, in this painting, you think you're gonna figure it out by screaming. They're 479 votes against 37. What kind of a terrible outcome is that? This State Department, this government, it's impossible to understand how it stands. How can a country's reputation be taken down more than that? Aren't you ashamed of living such a painting? Aren't you going to apologize to Turkey? How dare you? We've been fighting this for sixty-three years, sixty-three years. You still don't get the point. You say: "We don't know the decision of Europe." Today, the German Chancellor says: "We have no use for your threats, don't speak in vain." What do you say? You will say this to them, my dear friends. Not like the President did today. The president is speaking today; look at how he is challenging the European Union and predicts how it will launch the negotiation process. It's an example. It's a pathetic situation where a country falls into. Today, the President is talking, saying to the European Union: Look at me, if you go any further, these border doors will open. This is how you know this. So is the negotiations process for the European Union taken in Turkey by saying that I will improve human rights better, or am I going to open the border doors, and the refugees will come to you? Which one is it?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0086par0083	Whichever one you understand!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0082par0084	I'm going to do torture, zero torture in Turkey. When you're supposed to promise, you're going to open the border doors... you're bragging, you're entertaining 3 million Syrians here, what happened to you? Why are you opening the doors? Hold it inside.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0087par0085	None of your business!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0082par0086	Is that any way for a president to negotiate? Is that how we get credit in the outside world?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0088par0088	Learn! You'll find out!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0089par0089	Listen, listen! Learn to listen!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0082par0090	You're not saying that in a painting like this, I will create equality between men and women. Don't worry. I will prevent sexual abuse. Don't worry. I will destroy all kinds of bad habits in Turkey. Where's the government? The government feels the same way. My dear friends, my dear friends, this is not a good way; this is not a good way.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0090par0092	We don't know any better. You do better than that.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0082par0093	I know that after a while, you're going to turn around like you did with Russia last year, and you're going to go to the European Union as quickly as you went to Russia.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0091par0095	You're the wheel!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0082par0096	Sit the fuck down! Sit down!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0092par0097	Mr. President, please intervene! Mr. President, do your duty!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0093par0098	Isolation is my character. Doesn't he say, Ataturk?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0094par0099	Mr. President, this is the vice president of the group. Please!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0095par0100	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0096par0101	Turkey has increased unemployment, Turkey has no legal security for politicians, Turkey is closed down, all institutions are shut down.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0097par0103	Which politician doesn't have any left?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0096par0104	Today I thank the Minister of National Education, no victim. You said, "No victim." He returns 5,000 teachers. Well, aren't they victims? If we didn't talk about it, if we didn't bring it up, would it be returned?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0097par0105	Not because you guys talked.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0096par0106	Why don't you think about it? Why don't you think about it? It's the AKP-President. If it's president, it'll be all right, won't it? That's never gonna happen! Parliamentary democracy will resist, just as it resisted here on July 15th! That day, when you were fighting here under bombs, you didn't talk like that, you said, "We'll rule the country together."
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0097par0108	You've been sidelined.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0096par0109	It's an extraordinary state of mind, a peaceful government by itself, silence all opposition, silence the newspapers, journalists inside, e, AKP, democracy... don't the West see them? Can't he see that?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0098par0111	The terrorists are inside!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0099par0112	And the people see Kazan. The people see Kazan.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0096par0113	Turkey... in Turkey...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0099par0114	People are seeing the Eagle Rally!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0100par0115	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0096par0116	You'll be partners in Turkey, you'll cut ribbons opening Bank Asia... Kati Piri in the European Union says: "The AKP people told us about Fetullah." What are you saying? You will be arm in hand with the PKK, you will sit at the table in Oslo, and then you will accuse everyone of being a terrorist. There's no such thing. Everyone sees your true face, my dear friends. You can't take the country in this painting. In this painting, Turkey now needs a culture of compromise in this very decision. Whether you know it or not, it's necessary. Turkey's interests go through the European Union. We've set our course in that direction for sixty-three years and we're going. It's impossible to get anywhere by challenging the values of the European Union, ignoring the values of human rights; you'll see it won't happen. Look, the Central Bank increased interest, you thought you were going to lower the dollar, but the world is so integrated that Turkey can't get rid of it, so the European Parliament makes a decision that makes dollars. So, what are you gonna do? Come on, put the dollar down, can you get it down?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0101par0118	You have a dollar?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0096par0119	You'll play by the rules. There are rules of the world, dear friends: good neighbourly relations, civil relations, human rights, universal rights. What I say is true. You will hear the opposition, not the opposition. If you'd listened to us here yesterday, the first chapter is over, you'd go home. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now, don't make me talk here. The AKP speakers say: "If the opposition tries to pass these laws, I won't tell you what we're doing here, because of the seriousness of what I've been told. I'm not gonna tell you, don't make me. If you're here today, if you work here, look elsewhere for the problem, look elsewhere. [[TELL ME, TELL ME, TELL ME, FROM THE AK PARTIES!]] Mr. President- Mr. Lawmakers, I beg you, please. Be sincere, be honest. Keep your promises. On July 15th, under the bombs, we saved democracy, all of us, Turkey, but it's too late. From now on, do not lead the country into ruin. Even we can't save you from now on.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0102par0126	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0103par0127	There's no need for disastermongering, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0104par0128	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0102par0129	One second, I promise, Mr. Incescuz. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0105par0132	Mr. President, there is clearly a taunt from the group vice president who just spoke.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0106par0133	What did I say, sir? What did I say? Let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0105par0134	He must have had to answer to them.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0106par0135	You have to learn to bully, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0107par0136	One second, Mr. Sky, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0105par0137	Of course, he has just accused our group of all of our policies by looking at the AK PARTY MPs, saying, "Don't you feel ashamed?"
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0106par0138	I said that to the government. Mr. President, aren't you ashamed? I said the word to the government. Bring in the transcripts, you'll see.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0108par0140	Mr. Sky, I've listened.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0106par0141	What did you listen to, sir? What did you listen to?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0109par0142	The government consists of lawmakers who left the group. This is clearly a taunt. Be honest, be sincere. He has also accused our group of things.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0108par0143	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz. I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0109par0147	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I have to make it clear that my expectation as a citizen of this country is that there should be no voice different from the Parliament here yesterday against the decision issued by the European Parliament. In our position on December 18, 2004, there is no deviation in the goals we set in front of us, but we must ask: We have made many arrangements from that day forward, and these are the right arrangements. We stand by these arrangements to the end, we have no compromises, no retreats. But now I have to ask: which side of Europe is conducting negotiations with us today, which Europe? After we've said these things, especially today, we're looking at the countries of the European Union, where we're fighting terror organizations, and we're fighting them inside, and we're dealing with the PKK, and the PYD, and other terrorist organizations, and we're fighting DEASY, and we're talking about the countries of the European Union that didn't connect our President with a teleconference in a country there with 52 per cent of this country? Are we here to defend the European Union, where the same European country, who attacked another terrorist, Turkey, today's terrorist activities, all of us, who burned our hearts out here, cursed the heads of terrorists, are there, without shame, without boredom? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] However, today we embrace 3 million refugees. As we show them hospitality, are we today defending yesterday's decision from Europe, which held the walls against refugees, which held the walls against the refugees, in the rain, in the mud, in the dirt, in the past tense? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In a country of European industry today... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] 9,000 refugee children are missing. Shouldn't we be asking that?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0110par0156	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0109par0157	Therefore, we must all make one sound against the European Parliament's decision. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0110par0160	Mr. Incescuz, thank you. [[Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ……]] Members of parliament, according to the decision, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. The National Ministry of Education ranked in the 1st place, the National Ministry of Education's Decision on the Agency and its Missions and the Law's Decisions of Some Laws and Laws shall be made to be changed by Erkan Akçay. We will negotiate the amendment of the Law on the Law of Public Law, Mustafa Ilica MP's Law and the Law of Law on the Law, Mustafa Ilım's Proposal for Alteration of Law, Mustafa Kalaj and the Party's Party's Committee of National Movements and Manisa MP on Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. The commission and the government are in place. In yesterday's merger, Article 11 was adopted in the first chapter of the 405th Amendment, which was considered the main law according to Article 91.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0111par0169	You've given up Turkey. Look, you've fallen less than 20 percent to the polls. You shouldn't have done that, you shouldn't have. Know this, you won't be able to, you don't have the power, brother. You gave up the country for terrorists, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0112par0173	Mr. President, it's okay. The guy keeps saying something.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0113par0175	Congressmans, please... Now I'm going to read three motions on the 12th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 12 of Law Bill 1/721 be removed from the draft text and other substances identified. Zühal Topcu Ruhi Ersoy Erkan Haberal İzu Erdem Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu İstanbul Hatay The signatures of the other motion are: Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Dilek Öcalan Feleknas Uca Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Şanlıurfa Diyarbakır Van The signatures of the other motion are: Gaye Beceler Ceyhun İrgil Mustafa Akadın Selina Doğan Sibel Özdemir Metin Lütfi Baydar Candan Yüceer Mustafa Ali Balbay Does the commission agree with all three proposals in the same context? We don't agree. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. It is Mr. Metin Baydar of Aydın who has asked for a word on the first motion of the same nature. Meanwhile, we congratulate Metin Lütfi Baydar, who has been elected Vice President of NATOPA. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0114par0201	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Secretary, our motion is to remove the 12th article of the proposed bill from the draft text. Why? Because the regulations mentioned in the article predict the transfer of certain powers to the NGO to the undersecretary of the Ministry of National Education. This will open the tests conducted by the OSCE to political impacts by taking direct control of the minister and the undersecretary. That's why we find it offensive. Especially with the evidence of recent claims about the OSYM, politicisation in the OSYM will not eliminate the shadow of the tests conducted by the OSYM in Turkey. The complexity of the relationship between the NGO and the GERM is evident. Now, first I'd like to talk about CSI, then some of the contacts at some of the universities. The alleged corruption of the World Wrestling Championship during the former Minister of Sports Suat Sword period has been voiced. Ankara Chief Prosecutor Shadan Khanan, who has looked at the file on the complaint to the prosecutor's office, has been taken to the Olympics in China shortly after this organisation. This prosecutor has buried this file on wrestling for years, and after the prosecutor's arrest and arrest for the destruction of stolen questions at KPSS (July 15th), the complaint files on wrestling organizations have been removed from the shelves, and are now being investigated as a confidential file under the investigation. So I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary, that the relationship between PTSD is very deep and complicated. The July 15 attempt has shown that universities have been targeted, universities surrounded, universities have been turned into the backyard of betrayal. It refers to Turkey's future through universities. On the one hand, the inclusion of non-qualified individuals into universities, and most importantly, the absence of those with competent and qualified academic potential means the country's ten-year savings. That's why only Turkey's Grand National Assembly, Special Forces, streets weren't bombed, the country's future was bombed, its future was meant for tomorrow, its essence was shot. It reveals its own existence, its own people, its own values, the destruction of such a wild and hostile element at the feet of universities. 2.346 academics have been expelled under the Code of Law No. 672, but those who have been discharged are unfortunately in their duties and I want to give you a few examples: İzmir Kâtip Çelebi University was founded in 2010, and Galip Akhan was appointed as University Rector on 10 December 2010. The president made his first official visit to the United States when the university had not yet been assigned and had not even had an office to sit in. A visit to Pennsylvania via Michigan-Ohio-Pittsburgh was organised and attended by Professor Bahattin Adam, who was then president of Mevlana University. In addition, Professor Bült Miran of Ege University, who attended the visit on behalf of İzmir Kâtip Çelebi University, has been discharged with a fixed connection, and Professor Vedat Pazalıoğlu of the University of 9 September has been suspended. Again, one of the names given to him during this visit was taken into the Department of Construction Engineering Engineering Engineering Engineering Engineering of Professor Dr. Taysan Yıldırım, who was active in the Gülen movement in the United States, but the person involved never visited Turkey for three years. Mr. Secretary, the President is almost at the university entrusted to him... He has been discharged from the board of directors, except for himself and one other person, but he stands in the position of the President. Mr. Secretary, who is protecting this person? Please, I'm asking you to take care of it. I'll also bring you a file on the Clerk Chelebi University. I'd like to know what's being done, please, about the file I gave you on the Afyon Kocappe University Rector, because I still can't stomach the fact that this person, who received the signal from Muhammad, the opium imam when he was president, is still the president. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0115par0209	Thank you. Van MP Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan wants to speak on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0116par0213	Thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Turkey's educational system has also had a number of changes in policy during the AKP administrations, but we can clearly say that the AKP administration and education system are now bankrupt. I'm fighting the attack. The government, which started and extended the State of Emergency with its lie, is clearly making the State of Emergency opportunistic. Tens of thousands of teachers today have been expelled from the public with the rulings issued under the law. To give you a point, the work of 28,163 teachers was terminated at one time by KH72, which was released in the middle of the night of September 1st. In the process, the most basic principles of law and the Constitution were taken under way, and teachers were expelled from public office without a fair trial or even the right to defend themselves. The fact that you returned them, that you returned part of them, does not change the fact that you violated the Constitution and the law. On September 8th, almost all of them, 11,285 teachers, especially from Kurdish provinces, were expelled, millions of students entered into an uncertain process. With the export of teachers who serve in the region and know it very well, it is clear that the government will launch a new policy of denial and assimilation, and as we have told many times from this platform, the vast majority of these teachers are teachers who advocate equal, non-sexistence, equal, democratic, secular, scientific, and public quality education. At the same time, the government is an opportunist of coup by exporting members of the Unional struggle. In exports, there's no criteria other than receipts and tip lists of allied unions. The purpose of the dissociative teachers' suspension is clear. Using religious arguments, the main obstacle to commercialising the educational system is to eliminate. Education workers who have been fighting this goal for years and who have also fought the struggle for labour, peace and democracy are being avenged. On the other hand, a large number of teachers, who had no concrete relationship to parallel construction, were suspended because they had an account in Bank Asia alone. Those who want to restructure the education system in their own ideological interest have attacked the union struggle of educational workers because they do not want any organizational power against them. The government is trying to cover up their crimes by linking everyone who opposes it to terrorism. What we can't do at normal times is because of the State of Emergency. You know, the point is that you're making your intentions so clear, there's no need for further proof, no need for further explanations. Dear lawmakers, what we call a school isn't just four-wall buildings. No one has the right to drag Turkey into the gutter. You're doing it wrong, and the people of Turkey are paying the price for this mistake. Years from now, you will surely face the bill for these applications. You'll have to answer for all your crimes in front of the law. Dear lawmakers, the opening of imam-hatip school to almost every neighborhood is also proof that the government does not want to see anything in school for science, as it declares the high-projected public schools of Turkey's best status, and its teachers expelled. Of course, the government and the court's anger against the opposition is not limited, but those who signed the peace declaration that the Academics for Peace initiative had announced in order for the conflict environment to end are also at the goal of this hatred. Finally, 15 peace academics who signed the declaration were also expelled from their universities by an NGO at dawn. With their scientific work, these academics, we know their names, pay the price because they want peace. I'd like to share a name with you, this person has been discharged from Selçuk University with the KHK, whose name is Nuriya Gannon. Most of you probably don't know your names, but this woman has a very meaningful resistance. Nuriya Güln is 200-300 meters away, so she acts alone every day on Yüksel Street, and police have been beating and torturing Nurseh Hodja every day for fifteen days. The only reason for this open torture and abuse should be fear, and as a voice-fearing power on the street, you have made it clear that you are not in power, that you are not in power, that you are not able to govern, that the hatred for this person who alone resists to get his job back cannot be explained in any other way. Putting these scientists out of work overnight trying to connect scientific research with social life means ruining the future of this country. We live in this darkness today. Because of the educational policies of the 14-year AKP's rule, thousands of children have grown up who have not been able to think analytically. In 2015, the university entrance exams... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] 42,000 students are down to zero. I say this is the result of your educational policy. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0117par0228	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0118par0229	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0117par0230	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0118par0233	In the Republic of Turkey, there are 7 geographical regions in 780,000 square kilometers, 81 provinces. There is no definition of Kurdish provinces. In some of our provinces, Kurdish citizens are more and fewer in some of our provinces. From this point of view, I want it on the record to be corrected.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0117par0234	Yeah, we've recorded it a lot, too, but...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0118par0235	Another is, being an academic, being a scientist, doesn't mean being a terrorist propaganda freedom. Turkey has terrorist activity, activity, and propaganda. In this regard, they are both crimes under the laws of the state of the Republic of Turkey. The independent courts will decide that.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0117par0236	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0119par0237	Mr. President, I'd like a moment's notice according to the Civil Code 60.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0117par0238	Here, let me get that for you. Here, just a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0119par0241	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, he is offended by the word Kurdish provinces. So let me use the word "curdistan" as an example. Mr. Erdogan, Prime Minister of the period, after his speech in November 2012 with Sivan Perver. Mesut Barzani and Diyarbakir Kantar Square.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0120par0244	It's about Iraq, not Turkey.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0119par0245	...on responses from the opposition, a week later -- if necessary -- he didn't just use the word "curdistan" at his own group meeting for six and a half minutes, but he explained the reasons why the word "curridistan" should be used in a group meeting for six and a half minutes. When it comes to your work, you'll use some words for political pragmatism, but when it comes to it... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...today, you will act according to the spirit of time. There's nothing acceptable about it. Kurdistan is a sociological, historical, geographical concept, which does not change according to political parties. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0121par0249	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0122par0250	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0121par0251	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0122par0252	Mr. President, there's absolutely no question that we're uncomfortable with the word "Kurdish." In the Republic of Turkey, Kurds also live, Turks live, all equal citizens of the Republic of Turkey. There's absolutely no way we're uncomfortable with this, and I want to express it in particular. Kurdistan is the Kurdistan Regional Administration in northern Iraq.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0121par0253	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Congressmans, I've expressed it before, and you've expressed the President's testimony a great deal. What's important is that he's not cut out of his sociological, historical and geographical context. He acknowledges that there is such an event, to the extent that it is not broken, but we have expressed that it is not right to be called in a different way, to be called in a different sense, to be called in a different sense, from the sociological context, from the historical context, from the geographical context. Look, Mr. President is using the same expression, and I'm saying because you're saying it so much: when we look at the Ottoman state, there's the state of Kurdistan, there's the province of Lazistan. These people are not rootless. Go back a hundred years, and they'll look at the House records, and they'll see the word "Kurdistan" in those Parliamentary records. When they go to the Ottoman province, they will see the east and the southeast as the province of Kurdistan, and the Black Sea as the province of Lazistan. Now, Mr. President refers to society's awareness of history. He calls for a date reading, saying that the state of the Republic of Turkey, established on the Ottoman balance, cannot be separated from this historical context; the unit built on the Ottoman balance today does not give a description of the state of the Republic of Turkey. Thus, it states that regional definitions such as this are unrealistic within the unitary structure of the Republic of Turkey. It means that when you think about it in this context...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0123par0259	Where did this come from?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0121par0260	Look, you use it a lot. We have repeatedly stated that the Kurdish provinces, the Turkish provinces, the other provinces are a very dangerous distinction, that the Constitution is contrary to many Articles 126 and 127. In this regard, where will you view Istanbul as a province? All provinces are 81 provinces of the Republic of Turkey. They're all named, they're regional, they're geographical. And since it's a necessity to make that statement -- you're always giving it an example -- I felt the need to do it. I used these expressions in the sense that we all need to pay attention to these sensitivities in terms of the undivisible integrity of the country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0124par0264	Mr. President, for the record,
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0121par0265	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0124par0266	You have read short by commenting on the President's speech. Well, look, if I don't have this sentence in me, I'm going to apologize to the entire General Assembly. Look, after using that concept in Diyarbakir, after using the concept of "curdistan," on the responses from the CHP and the MPP, when it's said to him, "Was my brother, Ataturk a separatist?" Look, I'll tell you then, if you're going to evaluate everything in a legal plane.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0125par0267	You take these terms out of context and you understand them in your own way. You interpret it your own way.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0124par0268	In the last sentence, we can't argue over what's in the law and what isn't. There's capadocia in this country, there's a law? There's the Serhat region, Thrace, where does it legally apply? But I'm a geographer, I'm a geography scholar, there's a historical reality called the geography of Greece, there's a current reality, we'll continue to use it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0126par0271	Turkey doesn't have one.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0127par0272	It was a hundred years ago, and now it's gone.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0128par0273	We have nothing to say about historical and sociological reality, but within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, we are now officially...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0126par0274	And we will continue to correct every wrong we see.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0128par0275	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0129par0276	Go right the President's wrong, then go right the President's wrong!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0128par0277	Here you go, Mr. Master. I'll give you a minute according to 60.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0130par0279	Sit down!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0131par0280	Sit down, shut up, don't talk.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0130par0281	You shut up, you sit down!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0132par0282	Sit down, sit down!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0131par0283	Speech!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0130par0284	Sit down, shut up!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0131par0285	You're not my contact! Talk to your knowledge, your wisdom.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0133par0286	Mr. Lawmakers, I promised Mr. Master. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0134par0290	Thank you, Mr. President. There is a Republic of Turkey. In the Republic of Turkey, there are no Kurdistan, there are no Kurdistan, there are no Kurdish provinces. (Applause from MHP rows) There are Turkish nationalities, Turkish countries, and this country is indivisible. If someone said that in the past, no matter what context they say it in, it's a mistake, it's a mistake. And it's totally divisive to be used for political purposes today. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0135par0294	Mr. Sky, you're in the system, I give you my word.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0136par0296	Mr. President, it has come to be clear how accurate it is for everyone to remain within constitutional boundaries in Turkey. This country cannot act according to the descriptions of the President and the AKP Group, which sometimes evolve in a different direction, evolved in another direction. In Diyarbakır squares, Sırrı Sureyya Önder was criticized while Abdullah Ocalan was being read the letter. This is AKP's bilateral attitude. There, the government supported and had Abdullah Ocalan's letter read in Diyarbakir Square. We say that neither the President's words nor the words of other politicians; we agree that every issue should be spoken within constitutional boundaries and by the current names of our geographical regions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, everyone must be careful, especially the President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0137par0301	Copy that.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0138par0302	Thank you. On the final motion of the same nature, Master...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0139par0307	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0138par0308	I'm reading the reason: Some applications in the examinations conducted by the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement are not necessary in the central examinations conducted by the Ministry of National Education. I submit to your votes every three motions of the same nature...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0140par0312	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0138par0313	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who accept the same motions... those who refuse... We'll vote on an electronic voting device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motions have been rejected. Now, before the matter is voted, the Commission has a request for a reduction. Here you go. The statement of the Law Bill of 405 in its 12th Article must be changed to 5,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Thank you. With the commission's request for a reduction, I submit Article 12 to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Your request for this revision will be noted during the writing. There are four motions on the 13th article, which are of the same nature, that I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13 of the Law Bill 405 be removed from the bill. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Mujahit Durmuoğlu Halis Dalklıç Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Desire Erdem Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Ruhi Ersoy The signatures of the other motion are: Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Ocalan Ziya Pir Feleknas Uca The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Akadın Gaye Beceler Ceyhun İrgil From the heart to the heart of the Sibel Özdemir Selina Doğan Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We're leaving it to our appreciation, Mr. President. Government? We agree, Mr. President. On the first motion of the same nature, Aytuğ Atcı, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0141par0353	Mr. Ceyhun Irgil...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0138par0354	In fact, the joint motions, let's get them to read the motive and vote. Contractory teaching is basically an arrangement we're against. With this arrangement, teachers' rights of staff and essence will be undermined, their powers limited, their reputations in society will be damaged. Therefore, we believe that all regulations, including this clause, legalizing contract teaching, will damage our educational system. Another motion of the same nature... Mr. Yıldırım, should we have the motive read?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0142par0360	No, Mr. Ziya Pir will speak, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0138par0361	Here you go, Mr. Pir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0143par0362	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs... When you called me to the stand, you were missing something. My name is Ziya Pir. It's true, but I want to make amends. I'm Abdullah Zaydan. I'm also Nursel Aydoğan, Leyla Birlik, Nihat Akdoğan, Selma River, Ferhat Encu, Gürsel Yıldırım...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0144par0365	Read it without looking, without looking.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0145par0366	Congressmans, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0143par0367	I am Gültan Kışanak and Ahmet Türk. Now, about this bill. What does it do? As far as we're concerned, there's nothing on the curriculum. However, there are many such technical things, such as taking some of the units from one office to the other, which, as we understand it, will fill three-quarters of the staff with another party that you agreed to. But that's not what Turkey needs. This may be important, but if you haven't done it in 14 years, it's your fault. It's the curriculum that counts. And I'm afraid there's nothing about it. Now, you've also released a KHK. You are clearly in violation of Article 42 of the Constitution in Article 4 of the KHK. What's it say? No one can be denied the right to education or to study, but you are there to deprive a person of the right to education if he is imprisoned for any reason in prisons. Unfortunately, I think you need to fix this as soon as possible. Now, it's just been said here that the European Union has decided on Turkey. You know, yesterday, both the European Union and the Austrian Parliament will not be pleased with Turkey during the evening, and we have made some decisions that we are not happy with. We need to talk in this light here. What is it -- we're always critical here -- why did the European Union or Austria make such a decision, and why did the West, the West, take such a decision? I'll tell you. I've just read that you are violating Article 42 of the Constitution. You're tweezing people's social and economic rights, basic rights and freedoms one by one. Let alone what you have not done, what you have taken out of their hands, and what you have taken out of the Constitution. That's why the West is criticizing you. I think anyone who's democratic, anyone who believes in the state of law, democracy should criticize this, especially this great House. Now, I'm giving you an example. Your ministers are always saying something here and out there, they say, "I am one of the 13 people who were taken into custody before the HDP MPs were taken into custody." What is that? What is that? If you don't go there first, then, of course, the prosecutor or the judge can force you to come, that's what you have. But, my friends, I didn't tell my house -- I told the Attorney General last weekend -- they took me out of my house, out of my house, out of my bed at quarter past one, before I got a summons to my office or my lawyer. You'll object to the prosecution, we'll force you to go. The police said. We stood up to the prosecutor. He looked, yes, there was a mistake, but it's not my fault, it's your chief of staff. God forgive us, just as we were deceived by Mr. President. The prosecutor uses the same words if he says so. I mean, if he's out here defending other people blindly, then someone's probably denying himself a little bit, too. Dear friends, this is a grand assembly where 550 MPs are elected, where they come, where they speak. Don't deny yourself, please. Using a sentence of Foucault, Sartre, or Gandhi, there is no reason to be human beings. That's all you need to know. Please don't blindly defend someone else, don't deny yourself. I had something to say about it, but there's not enough time, and in my next speech, I hope to speak of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0146par0375	Thank you. Mr. Zühal Topcu will speak on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0147par0379	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, yes, the subject of the contract teacher is on the agenda again, the subject of education is on the agenda. When we compare the state of the country with the issues we're discussing right now, we're actually dealing with our pathetic self, which is what we're dealing with. Again: When we look at it, it's really like a place of fire all over our country, but the government still insists on bringing up the concept and practice of commitment in teaching to form a supporting staff. We repeat: In particular, the teacher does not have a contract in the teaching profession, and we say that when you step on it, you reduce the KPS scores to 70. First, when the grades from the students' KPSS test were ranked from the top to the bottom, the assignments were being made based on their successes, we now say that by reducing the score to a minimum -- by reducing it to 70 -- especially by choosing the verbal and verbal, what you did, you brought up the appointment; it's a pity, it's a sin. You've been trying to get the quotas in this way, and you've been trying to put the failings in education into education schools, but you've been trying to keep the agenda busy by increasing the quotas of education schools for years. You're doing the same thing right now, you're opening colleges, you're increasing the quotas of education schools, and in teaching, you're increasing the problems of running for a teacher. Now we say, the exams have been taken. This issue was implemented with the NGO on the matter of contract teaching at the National Education Commission before it became clear. More than 10,000 teachers have been appointed, and there have been major problems. We say, "This matter needs to be withdrawn, it needs to be taken with KPSS points again, and the oral exam needs to be eliminated, but still, the power insists on this wrong, it raises the doubt about the verbal hiring of teachers. Look, there's been a lot of doubt about questions being asked in interviews. We got 90 on KPS scores. They say, and when we look at the questions asked, we also bear witness that complaints about the areas of the question are not relevant and that their competencies are not measured in three areas. But even though you know these things, we're here to testify that even though we keep bringing them up, they're still being insisted on. In his speech the other day, Mr. Secretary argued: "Special schools also receive interviews. " Actually, let me tell you, when private schools are interviewing, what does a private organization do to their employees because it's a profit motive? He's very thorough. When he chooses his teacher, he's not asking ten minutes of questions and what's unclear, but he's actually making a demo, he's making a teacher's candidate teach, he's making students ask questions, he's looking at his communications, he's observing them all there. The experienced teachers are here, especially on the commission. Now, in particular, the Minister used such a statement to avoid this, it's really sad and sad. We repeat: Here, this clause needs to be removed, it needs to be stopped immediately, and again, if the quality of teaching needs to be improved... look, the most successful students need to be opened up in this field, and the subject of hiring teachers, training teachers, and teaching jobs needs to be brought up again with a new policy. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0148par0388	Thank you. Mr. Irgil, according to 60... Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0149par0393	Mr. President, thank you. In this article, we didn't receive a speech specifically because of the idea that it would be withdrawn by the motion of matter, and because it was withdrawn, because it had already been discussed by the law and it was already a legal clause; it's technically come here because it was in accordance with the law. The Republican People's Party has a very clear attitude regarding the appointment of a contract teacher, both in the commission and in many places. Our president and party have a clear attitude. We're against contracting teaching, we're against interviewing, and we're arguing that this has to happen within the legal limit as usual, based on KPSS, and we're going to keep fighting for it. We'll go to the Supreme Court on this if we have to. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0150par0397	Thank you. On the final motion of the same nature...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0151par0402	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit03spe0150par0403	I'm reading the reason: The contracted teacher's employment has been arranged in Article 6/7/2016 and has been published in Article 29783 and has entered into force in Article 29783 of Article 13 of the bill. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are accepted. Thus, the matter was removed from the text in accordance with the motions adopted. In order not to cause any confusion, we will continue negotiations over the existing materials of the number of lines text. In writing of the law, the matter numbers will be identified as presidents. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit04spe0150par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 405. The commission and the government are in place. Now, there are four motions on the 14th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first sentence of Article No. 652 (a) and the first sentence of Article 11 (a) be replaced in the following manner, and the second sentence, after the first sentence, shall be added as the second sentence, and shall be corrected and proposed as the temporary article 12. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Öznur Çukık Ramazan Can Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu Ilyas Şeker "a) I. The duties of the members of the legal counsel and the Head of Guidance and Control staff will be terminated and shall be processed according to Article 18 of the Article 375 of the ordinance." "In one year from the time this clause is in effect, the Ministry's Maarif Inspector, Maarif Inspector Inspector of the Ministry (I), who is in the section of the Court of Law (I) under the Court of Law (I), has exported the titles of the National Education supervisor and State Education Inspector, who have already served in the Ministry and who have been acting in the branch office (I) and who have been appointed as a member of the department and a member of the department of the National Education (I) and who have been appointed by international language and an expert on the basis of the national staff, who have been successful amongst the international language and thesis, between the Education Inspector of Education, the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Ministry and the Ministry, who have been appointed to be appointed to be appointed by the Minister of the Ministry, and the Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry, and the Ministry and the Ministry of the Ministry, and the Ministry of Ministers, who have been appointed. "The number of appointments between the branch manager and staff staff staff and the national education expert and national educational assistants cannot exceed five per cent of the number of assigned Ministry Maarif Inspectors staff." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the temporary clause of Article 11 (a), (b), (c) and (e.g.), which is added to Article 652 under Article 652, shall be removed from the draft text and (e.g.), and (e.g. Mustafa Akadın Gaye Beceler Ceyhun İrgil Candan Yüceer Sibel Özdemir Mustafa Ali Balbay ==Early life==From the date when this Article was taken into effect, the Minister's Maarif Chief Inspector and Deputy Chief Inspector of the Ministry and Minister's Maarif are appointed with the approval of the Deputy Inspector's staff, which is not subject to the number of appointments set by the 2016 Central Management Budget Act, dated 9/3/2016 and is not subject to the number of appointments set by the 2016 Central Budget Act. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose to remove the 14th joke (b), (c) and (c) from the draft text, (2) change the text in the following way, and add to the following (3). Erkan Akçay Erhan Master Kamil Aydın Spiritual Ersoy Kadir Koçdemir Zuhal Topcu From the time this Article is in effect, the Minister's Maarif Chief Inspector and Deputy Inspector of Maarif have been appointed with the Minister's approval of the Deputy Chief Inspector's staff, which is not subject to the number of appointments set by the Central Management Budget Act No. 9/3/2016 and is not subject to the number of appointments set by the Central Budget Act 6682; the Minister's Maarif Chief Inspector, Minister's Maarif Inspector and Minister's Deputy Inspector's Office. (3) As long as they remain in these positions, as long as they remain in the positions of those who have been assigned to those who have been appointed to the ranks of members of the Special Education Experts, under Article 3 of Article 25 of Article 6528 of the Law on the Ministry of National Education and Missions of 652. Those who are still in charge of other tasks and staff titles will be assigned to the Personal Education Experts if they request it in writing within a month of the time it takes to take effect. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the Law Bill 405 be removed from the bill. Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Dilek Öcalan Feleknas Uca İbrahim Ayhan Does the commission agree with the last reading motion? We reject it, sir. Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit04spe0152par0046	Mr. President, dear friends, now, of course, we've discussed and discussed the regulations for the national educational fundamental law that we're talking about -- and I'm a member of the National Education Commission. Which was the period before the coup attempt, and what we insisted on there, as the HDP Group, was that the arrangements -- based on more objective criteria -- were meant to be in a way that could bring the educational system to a more liberal and democratic norm and level, and especially after the State of Emergency began, we saw very clearly and clearly how justified we were in our concerns. In particular, many of these people have either been expelled from public institutions, from education, from public institutions, from the field of education, from the government, from the same frequency as political power; the July 15 coup attempt was given the opportunity to make decisions under the State of Emergency and its law. The most concrete, obvious example of this is the suspension of 11,284 education workers -- as we are talking about -- as we speak -- is the suspension of the teacher, and as of today, 6,000 of these teachers who have been suspended for about three months have been sent back. Look, within a three-month period, the teacher himself, the family itself, the student himself, the education system itself has been suspended, and these people are now being reinstated without any major investigation into those who are currently being reinstated. That's exactly what we said at the National Education Commission meeting when we said that changes in national education should be based on objective criteria. So, these suspensions, along with the current return today, are not done according to objective criteria, and because of this wrong practice, students and many people, especially teachers, have been victimised by this. Thus, opposition to these wrong policies should not be applied by consideration of opinions and proposals, nor should those wrong policies be entered into. Now, yesterday -- there's no Naci Hajji -- actually, about that rape law, Naci Hodja Foucault said that he had read three volume books about the history of sexuality and that the sexual area was a dark area. I've read it too, Naci Hodja is giving us some information. The sexual field is undoubtedly a dark area, but its sexual area is what Foucault called an area that has always been exposed to the abuse of the power field from the 17th century to today. Today, the general perception in the society of this case of child abuse brought by the AKP's government is that the AKP wants to change the agenda with this law of sexual abuse and rape; two, making policies to form its own base, which it intends to subject to. Here's to you -- if Naci Hodja were here -- an area of power, a form of power exploitation and the effort to form power and to shape the subject -- which is not here. So, in the field of education, there's also efforts to form this power, and that's done in both sex and women, and in many areas we're dealing with a political mentality that is trying to form its own power with sovereign understanding, which doesn't listen to its own opponents, and it perceives democracy in its own way. Dear friends, as long as this mentality is not democratised, no problems will be solved in Turkey, including the issues we discussed today about education, and no problems will be solved. Our basic reference, our basic movement point, should be democracy, should be no more power. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit04spe0153par0054	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose to remove the 14th joke (b), (c) and (c) from the draft text, (2) change the following form and add the following (3). Spiritual Ersoy (Osmania) and friends "Till 2) As of the date this clause was taken into effect, the Minister's Maarif Chief Inspector and Deputy Inspector of Maarif have been appointed with the Minister's approval of the Deputy Inspectors 9/3/2016 and on the list of free staffs on the list of additional to the law, without subject to the number of appointments set by the Central Management Budget Act No. 6682; Minister Maarif Chief Inspector, Ministry Maarif Inspector and Minister Maarif Inspector's Deputy Inspectors Office. (3) As long as they remain in these positions, as long as they remain in the positions of those who have been assigned to those who have been appointed to the ranks of members of the Special Education Experts, under Article 3 of Article 25 of Article 6528 of the Law on the Ministry of National Education and Missions of 652. Those who are still in charge of other tasks and staff titles will be assigned to the Personal Education Experts if they request it in writing within a month of the date when this clause is in effect." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit04spe0154par0069	Mr. President, we're discussing important issues regarding the education programme of the Turkish nation's youth, which may be a guarantee of our children, of our future. Of course, the regulations of the ruling class, the executives, are also subject to a fine review of these issues. I stand before you in the 14th Amendment to share the views of the National Movement Party. This 14th article basically has two subtitles: (1) and (2). The (1)th joke (a) has rules and principles concerning the appointment of managers, and may remain as it was. But, in addition to that, we propose that this is an unspoken issue. Personal education specialists' salaries are frozen. We think that the situation of the workers in this situation should be corrected and their salaries should be increased, but our original suggestion and focus on the situation is the state of the financial inspectors in the second quarter (2) of the bill. I'd like to share our views on this in the written text. Under the bill, the Head of Guidance Control, which serves as under the Undersecretary of the National Ministry of Education, is removed and replaced by the Office of the Inspection Board of Ministers. Work centres can be established or removed with the approval of the Minister's office in cities which are deemed necessary under the presidential supervision of the Board of Review. The mayors of the financial inspectors of the province's chief of education in 81 districts are removed. The current Head of Guidance and Control is appointed to the Chairman of the Inspection Board without any operations. Two thousand three hundred and thirty-four financial inspectors, who served as the head of financial inspectors in the provinces, will be able to be appointed as minister of the Ministry's financial inspector, with the approval of the Minister of the Inspection Board, following the interview amongst other institutions as auditors and inspectors. Thus, about 2,000 financial inspectors will do other tasks given by the county chief of il national education in the provinces by the staff of personal financial inspectors, research, guidance services, and other tasks given by the county director of education. According to the Constitutional Court's decision, it is not legal for career court inspectors to be re-elected as ministry financial inspectors by re-interviewing them. This is also contrary to the Constitution and international contracts. The Ministry of National Education currently has 2,334 financial inspectors. These inspectors oversee 95,000 schools, institutions, 17 million 590 thousand students, 9 million 910 thousand students and 927,000 teachers. The bill includes 500 Ministry financial inspectors and 250 Ministry deputy inspectors. However, the new ministry's financial inspectors will not be able to supervise for three years. Therefore, for at least three years, the Ministry of National Education will be audited by 500 ministry inspectors and the ministry deputy financial inspectors. Only 35,180 students in knitting education receive 1 Ministry financial inspector. Is it possible that 500 Ministry financial inspectors can conduct examinations, training and inspections? Therefore, school, institutions, and staff will not be audited for years. Those in charge of governance will not be aware of the dangers and dangers that take place in institutions and institutions. Economic attitudes and practices will increase in educational institutions. Corruption, corruption, violence, abuse can increase. The possibility of guidance and professional development for teachers will be reduced. Control is the government's guarantee. Combining control units under one roof will ensure more effective and efficient use of public resources. The management of control services from the centre will allow all services in the service to be supervised at regular intervals and to be effectively guided by those who provide it. In addition, education, teaching, management and control services will be saved from local influences. Our proposal is that audit services are conducted from the centre under one roof, and that all services in the service are supervised at regular intervals. Education, education, management and control services are intended to be maintained based on local influences, objective facts predicted by modern science. In this regard, I wish to accept our proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit04spe0155par0076	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the temporary clause of Article 11 (a), (b), (c) and (e.g.), which is added to Article 652 under Article 652, shall be removed from the draft text and (e.g.), and (e.g. Ceyhun Irgil (Bursa) and his friends ==Early life==From the date when this Article was taken into effect, the Minister's Maarif Chief Inspector and Deputy Chief Inspector of the Ministry and Minister's Maarif are appointed with the approval of the Deputy Inspector's staff, which is not subject to the number of appointments set by the 2016 Central Management Budget Act, dated 9/3/2016 and is not subject to the number of appointments set by the 2016 Central Budget Act. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Bursa MP Ceyhun İrgil will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit04spe0156par0090	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, friends, we've discussed a lot of articles on this National Education Bill in the Commission, we've agreed on a lot of issues, but there are some clauses that are particularly relevant to this material, there's absolutely no way to compromise on this issue. Friends, many of you raise your hand because it's a very technical substance, without internalization, without feeling what it is, but I'm trying to make it very clear to you. With this item that is now being brought in, and especially with the latest proposal from the AKP, we are making a way to become a financial inspector of a career, such as the financial inspector's office, to almost branch managers, educational experts -- interviewing -- or office heads, to people who have no career profession, who come through political appointment. Friends, middle-aged and over-aged, the financial inspectorship is one of the most fundamental institutions of the republic. When we look at the careers of many poets, many writers, many celebrities we know, we see that they are always financial inspectors. So, as Can Yücel mentioned in his poem, his financial inspectors have been attributed to so many careers and important tasks that a person such as Hasan Ali Yücel has come from his financial inspectorate to the Ministry of National Education. Now, we're trying to make this more casual and political. So I suggest to the AKP Group that those who understand and care about this proposal take a closer look and be more careful. I know that many of you, the MPs involved in national education, are uncomfortable about it. So, again, once again, we're warning you about this. Other than that, we finally got some good news from the Ministry of National Education today. 6,007 suspended teachers have been reinstated and reported to the provinces, to the governors. But we would have wanted you to not be so late, because 20 of our suspended teachers or teachers have committed suicide. For example, yesterday on Teacher's Day, 47 - year - old Ergül Yıldız committed suicide by hanging himself; he was a suspended teacher, unfortunately, unable to keep up with your decision. A day ago, maybe you'd have returned it today, but we don't know. In the same way, one of the teachers who was again expelled, Bilecik (e.g., Mustafa) Southers, 50 years old, committed suicide with tube gas in their homes. Again, in the same way, Mehmet Karadöğan, 37, killed himself in the lemon garden in Centralca district of Muğla. Again, in Mersin, an imam who was arrested as a teacher, committed suicide, unable to tolerate this dishonor, this slander. As you can see, people who are played with their honor, especially when they're wrongfully accused, if they can't handle it and they can't handle it, they commit suicide. Isn't that the right to commit suicides? Aren't these injustices, these discharges, these suspensions, rights? Who's gonna bring these people back? Maybe you returned them today, they don't know it, but these people are dead, and it's over. What we're asking you to do is teach them a lesson, a message from them. We'd like the remaining, suspended teachers' files or procedures to be reviewed immediately, returned as quickly as possible, or reached a verdict. Because you hurt their honor when you doodle them without judgment, without judgment. Imagine what happened to you. Please make clear the criteria for quickly exported or suspended teachers, and reduce these criteria -- not to expand -- to return people's honors, overpowers, jobs. Other than that, today, I'm going to say the last thing I'm going to say about this clause in the MEB Agency Act, one of the things that we're trying to do here is that rather than want to create a more efficient control mechanism, we see that the Ministry wants to go to a structure of a certain organization that is focused on collecting power through people and through political appointment. Unfortunately, in this jam and in this confusion and chaos, this structure exists, but if you throw away the profession of financial inspectorship, career career, you will lose quality and quality in future inspections and questioning of national education or in the conclusion of certain issues. I want to warn you again about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit04spe0157par0101	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading the final motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first sentence of Article No. 652 (a) and the first sentence of Article 11 (a) be replaced in the following manner, and the second sentence, after the first sentence, shall be added as the second sentence, and shall be corrected and proposed as the temporary article 12. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends "a) I. The duties of the members of the legal counsel and the Head of Guidance and Control staff will be terminated and shall be processed according to Article 18 of the Article 375 of the ordinance." "In one year from the time this clause is in effect, the Ministry's Maarif Inspector, Maarif Inspector Inspector of the Ministry (I), who is part of the Department of Law (I) section of the Court of Law (I), has exported the titles of the National Education Inspector and State Education Inspector, and who has already been in the Ministry's Office and who have been acting in the department and who have been appointed to be a member of the department and an expert on the national staff, and who has been appointed to be a member of the national training inspector, the Minister of the Minister of the Ministry, and the Minister of the Ministry of Ministers and the National Education (I) and the director of the department, who has been appointed to be a member of the National Education." "The number of appointments between the branch manager and staff staff staff and the national educational expert and national educational assistants cannot exceed five per cent of the number of sanctioned Ministry Maarif inspectors." Does the commission agree with the motion? We're giving credit, sir. Government? We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit04spe0158par0114	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit04spe0157par0115	I'm reading the reason: With the bill and this clause, the Ministry of National Education Guidance and Control Chairman is restructuring as the President of the Inspection Board. The department's control unit is being passed over as a staffed audit. There have been some difficulties in implementing this important and distinctive mission of the Inspection Board, which will serve as a government oversight and supervision of educational and teaching services conducted by the ministry, in the process of temporarily deploying financial inspectors in the country's staff, and in the time, the aim of producing efficient and effective services is negative. In this respect, the Inspection Board's mobility is more structured, based on the construction of the central agency in the Prime Ministerial and other ministries. Following the security investigation and archive study of those who served as Maarif inspectors in the ministry, the appointment of the Ministry's Maarif Inspectors in the first place is a public, institution and service benefit, according to the order of success in the interview. In addition, the Ministry's Maaf Inspector will contribute to the staff's appointment in accordance with the five per cent of the appointment of those who are successful in the interview, following the security investigation and archive study of the ministry's branch manager and those who have already met the conditions of foreign language and thesis from national educational experts and assistants in higher staffs, according to the order of achievements in order not to exceed 5 per cent of the number of members of the Ministry's Maarif Inspector staff. Those appointed in this way will first be subject to at least a year of vocational training. This arrangement brings inspection services from the centre to a qualified and effective structure, which is managed by transfer and management. Since KHK No. 652 has been added to KH4 as a temporary Article 11, the matter number must be corrected as a temporary matter number 12. I submit to your votes the motion of Mustafa Elitaş and his friends, for whom I have given his reason: those who agree... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. It's 20 o'clock for the merger. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0157par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 405. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on the 15th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third column, entitled Vice President (1), shall be replaced as follows by Article 652, which has been replaced by Article 15 of the Law Bill 405. Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Feleknas Uca Ayşe Acar Başaran Dilek Ocalan The two motions I'm now going to read will be the same and will be processed together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 15th article of the main law bill (1/711) be removed from the draft text and other substances be identified. Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy İzu Erdem Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mahmut Tanal The signatures of the other motion are: Omar Fethi Gürer Niyazi Nefi Kara Ceyhun İrgil Gaye Bezeler Mehmet Göker Nihat Yeşil Tur Stars Vecdi Gündüz Mahmut Tanal Murat Minister Ahmet Akin Mustafa Ali Balbay Does the commission agree with the motion of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0159par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0157par0033	Gaziantep MP Mehmet Gökdağ will speak on the first motion of the same nature. Here you are, Mr. Gökdağ.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0160par0036	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were yesterday's Teacher's Day. Once again, I celebrate the Teacher's Day of all our teachers, especially Chief Teacher Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Dear friends, despite the deformation of the educational system over the past 14 years, our teachers continue to take the light of the republic and modernity to the most remote corners of the country. Dear lawmakers, the research results from the study Research of Teachers in Economic Conditions of Teachers have shown that teachers face problems due to the November 24th Day of Teachings. The remarkable results of the study are: 83 percent of teachers find their income from their profession inadequate. 86 per cent of teachers find the education allowance inadequate. 74% of teachers say their public reputation has been reduced due to a low salary, 75 per cent say their professional efficiency has dropped due to debt; 82 per cent say that their children have suffered psychological problems due to lack of income due to lack of food, while 24 per cent say that their children are suffering from psychological problems because of lack of income. Again, 50 per cent of teachers say that if they find a job, they can change jobs, they can quit. 82 per cent have stated that in the last decade, there has been a decline in purchasing power, while 52 per cent live in fear of being relieved of duty, while 66 per cent say that they are unable to express themselves freely in the teachers' room. I mean, our teachers are unhappy, dear friends. In addition, tens of thousands of teachers have recently been dismissed, separated from their students. What happens is pain, what happens is people's conscience, society's conscience. It's possible to give hundreds of thousands of examples. For example, in Gaziantep, the principal of the school, the director of the national education, the teacher of the 2th EDUCE, who has been admitted by the review board to have been suspended for two and a half months, has not returned to their duties. Today, we have learned that some of the suspended are being reinstated, and we are happy, and we are happy, and we expect others to return to their duties as soon as possible. So, how are these teachers going to work in their own schools when they're reinstated? Are they going to have to plead not guilty in front of parents, students, other colleagues? How can you do this to our teachers, dear friends? If that's not enough, teachers have been given up on staff teaching, which is based on interviews, which is a contract teacher. Teachers who have not been appointed have now taken their own lives in this country. Their numbers are more numerous than the population of dozens of our cities. We really feel it's important to have the appointment of our teachers who have not been appointed as soon as possible, and we demand it. Another point to focus on is the issue of imam-gap schools. Dear friends, 36 of the 37 schools that have been transferred from Gaziantep have been imam-hakid schools, which have already been added to imam-haki schools, which are very few. In Turkey and Gaziantep, it will be seen that the imam-hating schools, which are teaching in Turkey and Gaziantep, have not filled even 20 per cent of its capacity by examining student assets. It is impossible to understand why many schools in Gaziantep have been insisted on this practice, which resulted in the abandonment of our schools when the number of students per class is over 40. On the other hand, teachers who work in schools in Gaziantep have been asked to travel street by street to identify the number of Syrian students at the age of school. Dear friends, since when does a teacher's job description include collecting refugees from the street? We're waiting for our teachers to perform their sacred professions in a village school with no staff, no fuel, and perhaps no security guards. Dear friends, our teachers don't deserve this. I want to finish my words with the words of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Ataturk says it's only the teachers who save nations. A nation that lacks a teacher, an educational nation has not yet acquired the ability to take the name of the child. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0161par0049	Thank you. Ankara MP Zühal Topcu has asked for a statement on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0162par0052	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, there are provisions in this article concerning students who have been sent abroad to be raised by Law No. 1416. Now, there has been a lot of discussion about these things, especially during the legislative activities of the 24th century. First, while sending students abroad with only ALES points, a number of steps have been taken, again, to address Law No. 1416 (or/or written), with the regulation of power. Despite our insistence here, of course, as a numerical majority, the ruling party continued these purchases with these substances, putting these and/or things into place without ever listening to the opposition. Now again, here's the article on Law Number 1416. In particular, there are certain substances that are intended for them in whatever areas, however many, students are being sent by the relevant institutions, universities. Of course, we've specifically said here from the beginning, that the purpose of putting in here is, as always, a political benefit, a political influence. Now, in view of this, when these were selected, especially when these young ones were chosen to be sent abroad, who would decide, how would they decide, why were they so persistently focused on this issue? When we look at the applications, I'd like to ask you how the people who came back after they did their work abroad with Law 1416 again. Did any of them not want to be started? Mr. Secretary, I would like to ask you in particular: When you go abroad and return with Law 1416, you are not of our opinion, you do not want to be admitted. Are there any students who do not want to be accepted, we ask them here. Because if we're sending a child here, a teenager -- all of these are our children -- these are the children who are in love with going there and taking advantage of the resources this country has given them and then coming back to serve this country. But this power is pushing this youth away, with this kind of biased attitude, with this kind of abuse. So we say, "Please, these children must be employed in the appropriate places after coming from abroad and without breaking their honor, and the money spent on them must be used to satisfy the needs of this country. That's what we specifically state from here. The other thing is, yesterday, a statement was made on the NGO website, and a thousand researchers will be recruited. Now, since a thousand researchers were needed, the last ones to be expelled were the ones who were taken to be raised by KHK (774) as well as by more than 3,000 NGOs, or professors. Now, it's being decided that you're no good to us. You're explaining a thousand staffs on the one hand. So not all of them as potential criminals, but if they're guilty, identify them, throw them away, but don't really consider them all as potential criminals. Now, what we particularly want to emphasize is that here in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we discuss everything during the legislature of this state, but we never discuss the existence and unity of this state and we never argue it. Our name is the Turkish nation, and the name of our state is the state of the Republic of Turkey; there is no turning back. One of the previous speakers spoke of curdistan. So we say from here: neither the Kurdistan, nor the Turkish provinces as well as the home of Turkey, nor the Diyarbakır, nor the Van, nor the Tunceli, nor the Tunceli, nor the Turk's own home, nor the people who live there, nor the citizens, nor our brothers, are all honorable members of the Turkish nation. And that's where we want to put it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0163par0060	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0164par0061	We asked for a sufficient number of decisions, but...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0163par0062	It's all right, next time. The motions are not accepted. Mr. Clumsy, you're in the system. According to 60, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0165par0068	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. As the main opposition MP, we sometimes criticize our ministers here. I'd like to express a fact that I'm here to testify. From the very first day that our dear teacher friends have been suspended, I really want to thank Mr. Minister of National Education, who has been very sensitive about not being victimized by any teacher who has kept the path to dialogue open and who is not connected to the terrorist organization. I have complete faith that you will show the same sensitivity to our remaining fellow teachers. I'd like to thank you, the Deputy Secretary, the Undersecretary. Also, again, on behalf of my teachers, on behalf of my friends, on behalf of my teachers, on behalf of my students, I thank you, on behalf of my students, for being sensitive to this matter again.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0166par0072	We thank you, too, for your kindness. Yes, lawmakers, I'm reading the final motion on Article 15: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third column, entitled Vice President (1), shall be replaced as follows by Article 652, which has been replaced by Article 15 of the Law Bill 405. Sibel Yiğitalp (Diyarbakır) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0167par0083	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0166par0084	Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0168par0087	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs today (November 25th) are referred to as International Fight against Violence Against Women Day, and this is how the Mirabal Brothers, who stood up against Trujillo dictatorship in the Dominican Republic, are called in all countries as International Fighting Day for Violence Against Women, because they were raped and murdered after visiting their wives in prison. Today, everyone against violence against women in almost all the provinces of Turkey... is unfortunately not in the Kurdistan provinces alone. I'd like to say that all actions and activities have been banned because of the decree issued in the State of Emergency. Before I begin my speech, I give thanks and respect to our female freedom martyrs, who introduce us to the honor of being a woman. I'd like to start by speaking in the words of Minerva, of the slain Mirabal brothers. It is a source of joy to do all that is done for our country, but it is sad to sit with its arms crossed over half a century after the Mirabal brothers' death, but still women everywhere are subjected to oppression and violence, raped and slaughtered; women's color, language, religion, country, are changing, but the source of their violence is not changing, and violence is increasing by restoring itself from domestic violence to public space. As a matter of fact, I'd like to give you a few examples of the extent of the violence against women in our country. Mr. President, we see the fiercest form of the male government's approach to women who struggle for wealth in every aspect of life, struggle for color, both in public and in politics, both within the house and in politics. It is so clear that the pressures of the Turkish Cypriots after July 15th and the women's chosen ones and the institutions of our violent struggle against women have shown this government's women's policy. As a matter of fact, in our captor municipalities, the first acts of extortionist trustees were to shut down women's centers, to put an end to the work of women's struggle workers. In the same way, not only did the government shut down the women's centers of the municipalities, but it also closed the women's associations in order to find out women's labor, and the centers in which the women's work was carried out have been passed by decrees. Again, these extortionist trustees are extremely anxious, not only where they are, but everywhere, even when they drink tea, trying to conduct a very restless work operation because they are aware of what they have done, because they have hijacked the will of the people. Again, besides that, our friend Sebahat Tuncel, who wanted to take a democratic stance and conduct his democratic struggle -- he was a friend of ours who fought here for decades -- and Ayla Akat, our friend, was taken into custody and arrested by the fiercest attack of law enforcement forces. I strongly condemn them as well as their violent security, law enforcement. Women's organisations are vital in achieving equality mechanisms for women, ways to create life away from violence, in which women are subjected to violence, murder, discrimination, and abuse. But it is well known that every woman's struggle to avoid violence has the legitimacy to nullify all the State of Emergency decisions. All these practices show us that we will not achieve real justice until the man destroys justice. As women, we have never been in favor of war and violence by nature. We still believe that all problems will be resolved within the framework of democratic norms. Let us always remember that an organized woman is the woman who resists, the woman who resists, the woman who is liberated, the woman who is liberated, the woman who becomes beautiful. I end up saying that any woman who's been exposed to violence, abused, raped, murdered is our rebellion...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0169par0095	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0170par0096	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. Now I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the 16th article, which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the spouse and his children in Article 16 of Law Bill 405 shall be changed in the form of those who are obliged to take care of it. Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Dilek Öcalan Feleknas Uca Müslüm Doğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "the spouse and children who have been sent abroad as part of this Law must be subjected to care for if there are no other brothers and sisters." Mustafa Ali Balbay Gaye Bezeler Mehmet Göker Nihat Green Vecdi Gündoğdu Ömer Fethi Gürer Mahmut Tanal Murat Minister Ceyhun İrgil Ahmet Akın Tur Yildizar Bicült Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the second joke of Article 16 of the main Law Bill (1/711) be changed in the following way. Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Argi Erdem Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu "As part of this Law, the spouse and children who have been sent abroad to care for their children are provided for by public institutions and institutions concerned in accordance with the procedures and foundations set in Social Insurance Act 5510 and the Law on General Health Insurance, dated 31/5/2006 for those sent abroad on permanent duty." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0171par0129	We disagree, Reverend President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0170par0130	Ankara MP Zühal Topcu has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0172par0133	Mr. President, there is a clause in the matter of sending students abroad with Law 1416 again. It's a substance that will go with the student -- in order to maintain family integrity -- to satisfy the family's needs, to address some health problems and stay-in problems. Actually, we think it should be because family is very important. We're not supposed to think of anyone here alone or as individuals. It's an important substance, but there's still so much to focus on that we don't know which one to start with. But when we look at the work system here, just because it's a single perception of whether to accept or accept or not, we're doing nothing but spending time right now, but we'd still like to highlight what should be happening here by listening to the voice of our conscience. So, as we've already stated, we think that this material should be, that the needs are whole and need to be done, and we see that education has problems that are much more different than that. The most important problem of education is that education is not being looked at in a holistic way, because there is constant work in education, where there is a tear, where there is a patch. As with 4+4+4, the system is constantly patched as a result of the change in education system, despite our objections that children should not start teaching at an early age and that this will not satisfy certain needs. Some of these patches are done during this period of government. In particular, here is the arrangement for the fifth graders to become language preparation classes, because there have been huge problems. For him, especially the first-class language preparation class of the second four will begin next year. We don't know what other problems it's going to cause right now because it's suddenly decided. You know, like we're going to get laid on the road, so what do we do? Let's cut it out, it's not here, we'll change it the next year, we'll throw it out. What's in its shape? What's always in the shape of a copy paste? There are studies. Now, is the problem with the education system in Turkey just a foreign language? Foreign language teaching? We're looking, we can't teach Turkish yet. We sing on this bench all the time; in exams and college entrance exams -- the result has changed a little bit more in middle school -- but the Turkish average for success is 50 percent. We're not telling the others yet. So the average Turkish lesson in a Turkish Republic state, where the language is Turkish, corresponds to 50 per cent success. Now, from this point of view, the fish smells all over again, so our problem is starting from the wrong place, so we're starting from the wrong place to solve the problem. What kind of teaching method does it have, and besides, what grade does it start in, and how many years does it last? I wonder if any of this has been discussed. How much time do you have to spend on what lesson? What teaching technique do you need to use? What are we doing? And we're constantly changing them. Again, we don't know what the Board of Education will do, but we do know that it's written according to the suppression of power and power. Look, a lot of books have been destroyed this year, especially because of the ا, because of the terrorist organization, so it's become so, that there are enough quotes in the curriculum to give examples of the leader of the terrorist organization to put a picture of him. What kind of freak is that? What kind of weakness is that? It's been canceled now, but we've seen that if you say, patch and paste the ground where it's been ripped off, then this education system won't hold up. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0173par0138	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "the spouse and children who have been sent abroad as part of this Law must be subjected to care for if there are no other brothers and sisters." Bulent Öz (Chanakkale) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0174par0147	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0173par0148	Çanakkale MP Bulent Öz will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0175par0151	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group on Article 16 of Bill 405. I salute the Turkish nation and the General Assembly. The overall goal of the National Education Basic Law is to raise all members of the Turkish nation as members of their country, a secular and social law state, loyal to the Ataturk principles and languages. You've built a structure that has moved away from mind and science, replaced integrity, loyalty to the state, commitment to the community sheiks, at the end of 14 years. You have raised a generation of young people who are anxious about the future and dream of going abroad. You have laid the groundwork for the coup attempt on July 15th by the institutions you have delivered to the congregations. You have not learned from the process, yet other congregations continue to be built in many institutions. Remember, the congregation reaps what sows. The problem of unregistered teachers has grown like snowballs and turned into avalanches. He's witnessed a lot of misdemeanor irregularities in executive appointments, contract-teacher inventions, and a lot of wrongs in interviewing with a torpedo. As you get further away from reason and science, you're not only doing evil to a generation, you're doing evil to the country. You've used all kinds of methods, including training to the legal system, discrediting and law enforcement of republican institutions. In Turkey, secular, scientific, contemporary education has never been attacked so much. Some of the foundations and associations, such as TÜRGEV, Ensar, have been created in the time of your governments by reactionary rhetoric and actions, have been determined by the policy of the Ministry of National Education. These foundations, whose goal is to raise generations in accordance with the ideology of political power, have dominated all levels of education from the appointment of executives. The intellectuals of the country know why you're dealing with the education system. The children of this land will continue to claim the 1923 enlightenment revolution, which has built a new nation state from the ashes of a crumbling empire. Any building that defies the Republic is ultimately doomed to defeat. The journey, which you started with the desire to convert all the schools in the country into imams and pilgrims, continues with the pragmatism of the project school. The minister says let's improve the quality, quality of education. If your problem is to improve the quality of education, why not apply your project in failed schools and aim to improve success? Because you're not sincere. Teachers assigned to project schools are determined by what criteria. The minister will turn any school he wishes into a project school, appoint any teacher or principal he wishes; this enjoyment, this application is unacceptable. Why didn't you schedule an open quiz for all the teachers? The reason why you took out thousands of school principals who took over the exam in one night is because you interfered with these schools. Because those principals didn't kiss hand in hand, those principals didn't belong to the yellow union. Because they know that this land will not give way to the poverty regime. Because they were brought up by Republican teachers who taught you not to give in to power, but to submit to injustice. I'm honored to be your graduate. You appointed the vice principal of Kababadan Male High School last year. It's time to become the imam-gap high school of all our schools. I'd like to ask where he gets his nerve. That was your goal when you put dynamite under the educational system with a 4+4+4 push. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0176par0159	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the spouse and his children in Article 16 of Law Bill 405 shall be changed in the form of those who are obliged to take care of it. Müslüm Doğan (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0177par0168	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0176par0169	İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan has asked for a statement on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0178par0172	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the EC PARTI government can't even solve the most fundamental problems of the educational system that have been under way for years, but every year, these problems are increasing and deepening. The Ministry of National Education is more victims of our children, teachers, and families in deepening these problems with new education policies than being the center of the solution to these problems. Discharged and expelled teachers, academics, destroyed schools, no longer usable schools, 4+4+4 complexes, mandatory religious lessons taking a single faith center, the destruction of gender inequality has now become irreparable in education. In 2015, 42,000 students received zero points in their entrance exams. We see that 42,000 students can't even solve the most basic problems, that they can't even be found in an analytical interpretation, that they're far from that idea. So, when you get into college, does that change a lot? Our universities are falling further and further down in the world rankings. For example, one of the science production criteria of a university is the number of scientific articles published, as you know. We no longer have the first 100 degrees in the publishing of scientific articles. A few of the universities held by hand are also wanted to be destroyed by the coup d'état of the law. Is this the level of education that the children and young people of this country deserve? Dear MPs, Sıla Yalçın, a high school student who supported the re-emergence of Nuriye Gülmen, who was expelled from his job with the State of Emergency, were expelled from school along with an article sent to İncirli Anadolu High School by Ankara Governorate. Since I know the Minister's sensitivity, I would like to make a specific suggestion that this child must return to school. On the one hand, an academic who has stood alone for 15 days to be reinstated, a high school student who has been taken into custody for the 15th time, and on the other hand, a school student who has been expelled by the governor's decision for supporting him. Is that acceptable? Is it that easy for a child to be stripped of his right to education, lawmakers, can you accept that? I would like to point out that education in many countries of the world is considered a basic right to be human for all citizens. Since everyone is human, they have the right to self-improvement and education. This has been made clear in international human rights documents. In this sense, the state must provide all its citizens with equal and free education, regardless of the distinction. There is a direct link between the quality of education and the regular and continuous conduct of educational services, the quality of teaching providers and the working conditions. The process of education must be organized in a way that paves the way for free thinking, helps children develop their minds. The scientific basis for education is that quality education is inexhaustible. Despite the decisions of the ECHR, human rights, and many internationally signed agreements governing freedom of religion and conscience, it is against the principle of secularism to apply mandatory religious lessons to our children, which must be immediately abandoned. The curriculum, integrated with the marketing understanding of the global capitalist system, serves to raise self-centered individuals who don't ask, who don't question, who put individual values first, who don't understand the spirit of solidarity, who don't understand the spirit of solidarity. This curriculum education, based on the needs of the market, is contrary to the spirit of scientific change and development. It is not possible to conduct a qualified educational process on a scientific basis and by this curriculum, which is not organised in accordance with the real needs of education. Dear lawmakers, moving education to its rightful place in Turkey may only be possible with radical changes that can be made. Therefore, structural changes are needed in the educational system. Education investments, pre-school education, preparation of textbooks, the determination of educational directors, the development of the scientific, democratic, secular aspects of education from the classes available; classrooms, school, teacher deficits, the share of education in the general budget, need a major change in almost every level of education. However, this radical change may be involved in removing the views of all the communities and dissolving their anxiety. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0179par0181	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0180par0182	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0179par0183	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept the motion... those who do not accept it... there is enough of a decision, the motion is not accepted. Now I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the 17th article, so I'll have them read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "in two months" in Article 17 of the current 405 rows of the Bill of Law shall be changed into "in 90 days." Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Dilek Öcalan Feleknas Uca İbrahim Ayhan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the National Ministry of Education of 405 rows in the General Assembly of the Turkish Parliament shall be changed "in the four months period" during the 17th Article of the Code of the Law and Law. Gaye Beseler Vecdi Gündoğdu Ömer Fethi Gürer Murat Minister Ahmet Akin Mustafa Ali Balbay Mehmet Göker Nihat Green Mahmoud Tanal Tur Yiçer Ceyhun İrgil Sibel Özdemir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "in two months" in the first verse of the 17th article of the main Law Bill (1/711) be changed into "in six months." Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy İzüt Erdem Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu İzzet Ulvi Yölter Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0181par0212	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0179par0213	Izzet Ulvi Yölter, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Orender.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0182par0216	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. A amendment is proposed to Article 17 of the National Ministry of Education's Court of Law on Agency and Missions and to the amendment to certain Law and Law provisions. Within three months of the first sentence of the second sentence of the specific and merkur clause of the Law No. 1416, it is expected to be replaced in the form of two months. During these two months, we find the nationalist Movement Party to be incomplete and inadequate. So we demand that it be replaced and corrected as six months. Because a student who completes his education and returns from abroad has to apply for a contract within three months, and unless this student is assigned to a post from this application, there is the first condition of the clause in which he receives half of the minimum monthly monthly allowance for the student while he is studying abroad for three months. In two months, however, dictating the application will make it difficult for students who have completed their studies abroad and returned home to their homeland to adapt to their duties. For that, a six-month period will undoubtedly be very, very useful. In this regard, we hope the Minister and the Commission will consider our proposal. Because we provide a support for our students in foreign countries. For them, our nation pays its share of their income, and we're wasting our money because why? We expect them to contribute to the government and to the nation as they return. The value they will produce will provide unique possibilities for the growth of our nation and our country, for its development, for its enrichment. Therefore, in order to overcome the difficulties of adaptability on return from abroad, not to reduce the application period to authorities, but to increase the opposite. I wish we had dealt with the problems that the Ministry of National Education had been involved in while discussing its agency and its duties. National education is our future, the security of our future generations. Today, we're talking about the bill on the department of national education and its duties, but there are no students or teachers in this bill. We're talking about the National Ministry of Education's bill on departments and missions, no school, no future, no vision, no hope. Therefore, when we talk about the National Ministry of Education's decision on the Agency and its duties and the draft bill for amendments to certain laws and laws, we have a teacher's ordeal that we need to get on our agenda first, an appointment that we need to talk about. Hundreds of thousands of unappointed teachers are waiting for a beautiful and hopeful voice to hear from here. Also, when it is thought that the unappointed teachers -- especially after July 15th -- have been cleared of a large portion of the national education, especially after the 15th of July -- are no longer fully available, Minister, let's finish this unassigned teacher's ordeal, and let's think about what these brothers are eating, what they're drinking. They've got big problems. Also -- the process is running low -- the interview of contract teachers is another issue, as a separate problem on our agenda, and we think that political decisions, trends in this contract teacher's purchase, are decisive. Unfortunately, our teachers who scored higher than KPS. I also feel that the sacrifices in this matter must be resolved quickly, and I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0183par0224	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and propose that the State Department of National Education, number 405 in the General Assembly, shall be changed to "in the four months' time" in Article 17 of the Law and Law Act. Gaye Beceler (Eskişehir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0184par0233	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0183par0234	İstanbul MP Gibraltar Özdemir has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0185par0237	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 17 of the underlying Law Bill 405. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, at the point of meeting the demands of students and especially some public officials who have been sent abroad, we also support the arrangements made in this bill and in the previous article. We also see that the notice period is needed to be changed, and our demand is to be raised to four months. In fact, as part of this bill, we find that the wives who were sent abroad are entitled to care for their children's treatment costs, the health costs for those who are constantly sent abroad are also positive. Dear lawmakers, today we are discussing a comprehensive bill on education, and I would like to share some of my findings on budget negotiations by the Ministry of National Education in the Plan Budget Commission last week. First, in the budget presentation of the Ministry of National Education, I would like to point out that I do not see any concrete plan, vision or strategy for the solution of structural problems that are fundamental, qualitative, and for the whole of our educational system that society expects to solve. The 14-year-old AKP governments have shown that we are still talking about these problems, such as foreign language teaching, pre-school education, vocational education, university quality, technology production, management and use, teacher quality, which so far cannot be solved with a continuous understanding of system change. We don't know how the AKP governments are going to solve these basic problems. The Ministry of National Education, unfortunately, does not reveal a holistic road map by including the structural problems of the education that you are all facing and waiting for the solution, including all the partners of the educational community. A very important issue about the ministry's 2017 budget, particularly the acceleration of privatisations and the removal of education from public service, is really important. As of next year, privatisation in education will become a very worrying dimension. Today, however, the difference between the highest income group in our country and the lowest income group is 12.5 times that, and these scissors are opening. While the richest group of 20 per cent spends 70 per cent of education, the poorest group of 20 per cent can, unfortunately, only spend at 1.6 per cent. The growing number of poor during the AKP administrations, the almost 20 million poor people, the opening of privatisation, the withdrawal of children of low-income families from education, and the already existing inequality of opportunity and injustice. Dear lawmakers, the increase in the budget of education spending offered by the government and the Ministry as a source of pride, yes, it's important, it's a necessity. But what we really need to look at here is education spending within the budget. Unfortunately, there has been a decline from 17 per cent to 8 per cent since 2002, and about 80 per cent of the budget is earmarked for personnel expenses. This raises the question of how to solve our basic problems in education with this limited budget. I've just made an arrangement with the financial inspectors in Article 14, Mr. Secretary, and I wanted to mention that you weren't in the hall, you weren't in the General Assembly. The structure of an ideal audit and inspection structure in education in Article 14 has already been broken, and we are facing a more serious problem with the motion that has just been made. With this motion, 500 people can be appointed as Minister of the Board of Ministers under the title of Minister of the Ministry's financial inspectors, along with 2,334 financial inspectors in the provinces, as well as an actual employee of departments and senior staffs, and from the interview between the National Education expert and the National Education Assistant. My request is that you reconsider this motion and consider the important proposals we offer to your attention in the Commission. Finally, valuable lawmakers, at the moment we have arrived, it is clear that our fundamental structural problems in our educational system, which are vitally developed, especially in terms of the violence that we are all talking about today, are completely out of range, agenda, and priority from the country's agenda, cannot be solved. I salute you with these feelings.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0186par0249	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly During the two months in Article 17 of Law Bill 405, which is currently in session, we propose and supply to change the terms of the terms of the declaration of the Law to be changed within 90 days. Çağlar Demirel (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0187par0258	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0186par0259	Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0188par0262	Mr. President and his dear friends have recently been removed from the right to education of prisoners and prisoners, especially in prisons, under Article 677 of the Constitution, and it appears that those convicted for terrorist organization membership and similar crimes will not be able to take the examinations during the State of Emergency process. So this is a very, very serious practice involving human rights violations, constitutional rights violations and so on. So for once, in our current Constitution, there is a clause in which everyone has a basic right to education and teaching. Article 42 of the Constitution clearly regulates and gives it the right. It is said that no one will be denied the right to study. Therefore, it is not acceptable for people who have been thrown into prison to be deprived of that right, who are still guilty and not convicted of it. Besides, those convicted shouldn't be violated. So do we want people to get better education, to be more conscious, more open to development, to change, or do we argue that people should live with more ignorance, more ignorance? With this current rule of law, it's actually blocking people's awareness and development. Look, this is a serious violation of rights, and this rights violation needs to be corrected as soon as possible. Because of the State of Emergency, with some kind of revenge and so on, if this is being done, it's definitely wrong. So by causing people pain, by depriving people of certain basic values, if revenge is to be taken, it's a very primitive account. Therefore, this account must not be entered into. So I was reminded of a quote from Spinoza. I don't know if anyone knows Spinoza, or not. A Jewish philosopher who lived in the Netherlands in the 17th century. He was excommunicated by his own congregation and was excommunicated as well as one of the few philosophers who could afford to stand alone and fight alone against the wrong practices of that congregation. Spinoza says: "Powers need the grief of the masses, the people. " In order to maintain their own power in a hegemonic way, the authorities enjoy causing suffering to people or if they need it, they say something in that chapter. What's happening right now is that political power is trying to create its own power by causing pain, by producing grief, and it's trying to maintain its own power, so it can actually come out as a reflection of being strong in some way, but I think it's the result of a great weakness, a great failure. Why should we fear humans, why should we fear knowledge, and why should we fear awareness? Let people continue to teach their own education within all four walls, so that they can carry out their ability to know the world as much as they can, to understand themselves, to know themselves. Therefore, this right must be handed over at once, and this persecution of these people must not be tolerated. There's also Mr. Minister of National Education here. And I'd like to make sure that's fixed. So I stayed in prison, and really, there was a tremendous desire to read between forensic, political prisoners, and this desire to read -- I believe -- to be seen outside, an unknown set of...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0189par0265	It's only temporary.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0188par0266	And here's a temporary one, why is it only temporary now?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0189par0267	This is for those under the law. There's no such thing as any other normal crime.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0190par0268	Complete it, and then you'll see the Minister, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0188par0269	Whatever. Hopefully, not even for a temporary period of time, and this will be completely removed, and people's right to education will not be taken away, nor will the Constitution's existing rights be subjected to such a thing again. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0191par0273	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on the 18th article, which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the terms of the 405-line bill of law shall be changed in the form of ▪90-days. Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Dilek Öcalan Feleknas Uca Ahmet Yıldırım Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement shall be changed in six months' time in the first verse of Article 18 of the original Law Bill (1/711). Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Eğur Erdem Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to Article 18 of the Constitutional Code, the health-related student's hospital costs will be covered by the National Ministry of Education budget. Mustafa Ali Balbay Gaye Bezeler Mehmet Göker Nihat Green Vecdi Gündoğdu Ömer Fethi Gürer Mahmut Tanal Özgür Special Murat Minister Tur Yıldız Bicer Ahmet Akın Orhan Sarıbal Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0192par0304	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0191par0305	It's Bursa MP Orhan Sarıbal who wants a word on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0193par0308	Mr. President, when there were valuable lawmakers; yes, we saw them, we saw them, they were with the workers who went on strike; they were with the students who wanted scientific, democratic education; they were with those who wanted education in the native language; they were with those who were having problems with human rights; they were with those who were tortured. They had only one goal: they worked as a locomotive that opened their way for snow, to tear down the pressure walls, to destroy the pressure fields, brought by September 12th Fascism; yes, Group Comment. Group Comment has been arrested again. They were the pioneers of democracy, freedom in this country. As William Shakespeare said, the songmakers of a nation are stronger than those who make their laws because the people make the songs. Yes, my dear fellow lawmakers were asked to be celebrated as Teachers' Day on November 24th, with the imposition of the September 12th junta, which is celebrated by the teachers of Turkey. September 12th Fascism imposed it on the teachers, and it comes like this. Instead of celebrating a Teacher's Day at a time when there was a fear, a compulsion, a digestion, a tragic day, if there was a tragedy, we would just bring it up and bring it up. The AKP and the court regime are taking very dangerous steps to achieve their goals for education. The coup on September 12th found the entrance to Turkey through neoliberal policies created in accordance with the needs of financial capital and international monopoly, in the interest of imperialism and capital. In the post-September 12th coup, Turkey's important social dynamics were shattered, and with a highly methodical and planned effort, society was increasingly left unorganised and vulnerable to any authoritarian, fascist regime. All the basic gains of the Republic have been gradually reduced, hollowed out, vulnerable to any kind of attack. Yes, what happened a long time ago, perhaps today, with a new structure, we live and see through the impositions of the AKP and the court regime. Minister, last night you compared milk from here to bread and teacher's wages. I'd like to ask you, please, in the seat where you're standing, compare these teachers' salaries with your salary.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0194par0313	What's that got to do with it? What's that got to do
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0193par0314	I mean, should the teachers of this country, you, us, the Prime Minister, the President, have lower salaries?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0194par0315	There's no need to be so demagogy.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0193par0316	Again, Mr. Secretary, the one who took 54 percent of this illegitimate national estate...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0194par0317	This isn't a showroom.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0193par0318	...let's compare the profits of the 1-percent class to the salary and the teachers. Again, Mr. Minister, you made a statement today that you said: "We will go into a new system." You said: "We have a new system in which you have changed 14 times in 14 years; we will train full-time without interruption." You said, "We have a class gap of 70,000." If they ask, "Where is your money?" You say, "We have people." The question is, you've already got one hand in the public pocket, the other hand in the wallet. You take the income of all the people with indirect tax, and you use it as a government. Yeah, a little conscience! By collecting so much taxes, you're still telling the public that we're going to make a system change, but we're going to take the money from you. Mr. Secretary, let's stop looking and do our real duty. For example, if we were to use a real educational system for scientific and secular education as the basis of secular, democratic, social law, can't we really have them instead of destroying all of the republic's achievements, Minister? [[Applause from CHP rows]] In this sense, what you will be is no more hurting, no more hurting the wheat man, 16 million farmers, over the matter of milk and bread that you've brought down in the field of agriculture. In fact, what you're doing is the result of 14 years of agricultural policy. You take one side and you compare it to the other. You don't have the right, no one has the right. They're the proud people of this country, farmers, proud farmers.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0195par0324	Let's go back to the General Assembly, General Board.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0193par0325	My respects to all of you. There is no salvation alone, all or none of us together.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0195par0328	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0196par0329	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0195par0330	Mr. Incescuz, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0196par0331	Mr. President, in his oratorial speech, I would like to inform our group that the political government is doing what it is doing to establish its own regime, to maintain this fascist order.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0195par0332	Here, I promise not to tease you for two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0196par0336	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, first of all, we have said that in no way, as a government, as a group, there is no problem with the regime as a party. We're saying that there's a system problem here, that the system needs to be discussed, that every chance we get. Now, in the speech of the orator just now, in particular, it's as if the group members or so were not guilty of anything, as if they were attacked without any crime, as if they were arrested, as if they were taken into custody. Now, if you'd like, I'd like to talk to you about some Group Comment members. In this sense, the public needs to be informed correctly, and our beloved nation needs to be informed correctly. There's no way these Group Commentists have ever been processed while they're playing their music like that, while the country, as they're chasing people. Look, let me tell you, for once, first of all, the strings on their guitar are covered with the blood of tens of thousands of Syrians, Group Commentists. Here's Baasci, Fascist, if we're going to talk about it...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0197par0340	What the hell?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0196par0341	I'm coming. They're a terrorist organization... From being a member of a terrorist organization, from aiding and abetting the DHKP-C, MLKP terrorist organization, from propaganda for a terrorist organization... Also, again, this is the same Group Commentary members, who have been told earlier that they are innocent, who seem to have achieved democracy, who have also composed music in the name of Shafak Yayla, who has martyred prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who has performed music, who has not hesitated to take part in the same scene as the terrorist who attacked the Gazi Police Center.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0198par0344	What about the square you took, the square you took with Fetullah Smiley? Do you remember your square with laughing, laughing?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0196par0345	I'm really embarrassed to hear such words from a CHP MP on behalf of my dear nation.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0198par0347	Do You Recall Your Picture With Laughing? Do you remember the scene with the laughing one? If being in the square is a crime, you're supposed to be in prison.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0196par0348	There's no such thing, you don't have to remind me every time you're in a jam. I can tell you the rest of the group's comments.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0198par0349	But look, you call it square, would it be a crime to enter the square? Not if you know the law.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0199par0350	Here you are, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0200par0351	Mr. President, there seems to be an obvious taunt. I consider it a direct attack on myself as a CHP Group and a MP. I'm asking you for time.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0199par0352	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0200par0353	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0199par0354	Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0200par0356	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, together for thirteen and a half years, are the first phase of the heavy, developmental and regressive phase... the first phase we envision as the conservative developmentist second phase... the formation of the AKP and the Fetullah Community before the presidential election. The second phase, after being elected President, was that you shared every stage, shared it at every point, Fetullah Gulen. I didn't infiltrate anywhere, I was put in by the government, everyone knows. Unfortunately, we had a break that you took on this country on the night of July 15th. You've locked up anyone who doesn't belong to the Fetullah Gulen Congregation, just anyone, but only the opposition to the palace and the AKP, in one night. The reason is for aiding and abetting the Fetullah Laughing Congregation. Oh, my God! If there's anyone who's aided and abetted the Fetullah Smiley Congregation and parallel state formation, please, everyone in this community raise their heads and look at themselves and look at what we've been going through. Therefore, if there is aid and abetting a terrorist organization, the Fetullah Gulen Congregation must be reviewed by the palace and the AKP. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0199par0359	The next motion...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0201par0360	Mr. President, just for the record. If a terrorist group of these had been known in the past period... December 17th-25 is a serious sign here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0202par0361	We knew.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0201par0362	The stopping of previous MIT trucks is a serious sign. After seeing these things, our attitude is clear, and we expect the same attitude from them. Having knowingly made these statements is also clear support.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0203par0363	We always warned you, we always warned you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0204par0364	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0205par0365	Mr. President, those who provide political support for Fetullah Smiley in this country will come forward and answer. I don't have any doubts about it, and I should be. No one here should ignore how he raised Fetullah Gulen, how he mauled, how he placed it in state institutions, how he placed it in government staffs himself. This great reckoning will surely take place in Turkey. No one is supposed to get away with this. Look, Mr. Secretary, glory be to Thee. They're based on prosecutors to be in touch with Fetullah Smiley, December 17-25, and they're filing indictments and suing. Minister of Education, under the Ministry of National Education Minister Nabi Avcı, under the Ministry of Education, all governors have been sent written instructions to all schools and their members have been asked to join the Active Sen Union, the account numbers in the bank have been given. What are you going to do with them, what are you going to do with them, why don't you look at them?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0204par0368	Mr. Sky, it's on the record. The other motion...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0205par0370	One moment, sir...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0204par0371	Let's finish, please.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0205par0372	Wait a second...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0204par0373	Yes, but let's finish in a second, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0205par0374	So, you're going to say that you're a terrorist organization, and when you go to him, you're going to wear a headscarf and pose, and then you're going to come in here and think that you're fighting against a terrorist organization. Nobody buys it, nobody buys it.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0206par0376	For the record, you have to be specific. Every time they get stuck, they can pick on them, it doesn't matter. He who knows us knows us, and he who doesn't knows us thinks he's just like him.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0205par0378	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0207par0379	Now, Mr. Sky, look, this isn't how it works, you've made a heavy taunt.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0205par0380	I didn't name anyone.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0207par0381	You've dealt with the individual, it's obvious what you call who, Mr. Gök.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0205par0382	I didn't name anyone, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0207par0383	Don't bother with personality here, please, okay.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0205par0384	I didn't name anyone.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0208par0385	And I'd like to call him "responsive."
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0205par0386	Now, if everyone knows each other, so do we.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0209par0387	Okay, okay, no problem, and the citizen knows all of us, it's over, it's over. What matters is how people know about us, that's how it is, that's what it is.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0205par0389	Look, in this country, there will be these reckonings. I mean, on the one hand, you're going to easily blame people, but keeping one of the architects of the coup's brother in the party as vice president would probably be AKP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Right, guys? What are you doing about it? What are you doing about it?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0209par0392	Yes, I'm reading the other motion...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0210par0393	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0209par0394	One second... I'll start reading the motion, and then I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0211par0395	The brother of a party's vice president has attempted a coup in this country, a coup, and you're going to keep his brother at the party. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0209par0396	Mr. Sky, this has gone on, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0211par0397	Everyone be careful when you talk, careful.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0212par0398	Mr. President, I'd like a word from my Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0209par0399	I'll give it to you, okay, hold on, I'll file the motion. I'm having the motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement shall be changed in six months' time in the first verse of Article 18 of the original Law Bill (1/711). Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0213par0410	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0209par0411	Heromarash MP Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0214par0414	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party on the matter of Article 18 of the Perpetual Law Bill on the Amendment to the Law and Laws of the Ministry of Education No. 405. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, Article 18 is concerned with Article 1416, changing the 19th article. Law number 1416 is the Law on the demand to be sent to foreign lands. When did he leave? It was released in 1929. In the early years of the Republic, many intellectuals were martyred in the Battle of Salvation, there were no more people raised in many areas, or not enough, and the law came out just in time. As a matter of fact, after 1929, Turkey sent a large number of people abroad to grow them. Now, I want to count some of these people: Ali Fuat Basgil, one of these, Refik Saydam, one of these, Arif Mufid Mansel, one of these, Cahit Arf, one of these, Haldun Taner, Halil Inalcık, one of these; Oktay Sinanoğlu, one of these, Süleyman Demirel and Turgut Özal. I ask God's mercy for all these people who have received mercy. They've all served this beautiful country very seriously, very importantly, in their own fields, especially in administrative levels. Dear lawmakers, what is the 19th amendment now? With the 19th article, we sent them out of the country -- we sent them out of the country, we called them back somehow -- after finishing their collections in three months of non-warning, non-accession and offer services, including those who resigned during the mandatory period of service, or were sentenced to discharge from office, our state was paying with interest, and so was the matter. A joke is added to the 19th article of Law 1416. The joke also cuts off from those who have been sent abroad to continue the study of spirit or physical health, the health report from education and research hospitals or university hospitals, and other supporting documents from the Ministry of National Education about the matter. These people are not required to collect. These people don't have mandatory service. I mean, we want interest from those who were called back, who didn't return in two months, who didn't accept the services that were offered, who resigned during the mandatory service period, who were expelled from the service, but, because of health reasons, they don't have the obligation to do so, provided we can prove it with the report and other documents. It's the right arrangement, and the joke rule is very clear. Of course, the dissolution of mental and physical health of students sent abroad prevents them from continuing their studies. Dear lawmakers, students who will return from abroad are given two months in the bill, and we ask that this deadline be extended in our motion. Why do we want it extended? He's been abroad for years, bought a car, bought a house. These students may need a period of time to sell them. The kids who go to school don't get transferred, don't get schooled. Your wives may have other problems. In view of these, we say: let's take this time longer than two months, let's make it six months. When it's six months old, he won't be able to step foot in, he'll come back to our country more prepared. I hereby pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0215par0420	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Mr. Demirel, according to 60, I give you my word for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0216par0425	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. President, we're in a process today in Turkey, where the government and the government, who say they've done the State for the state, who is trying to face it, unfortunately, is giving the country a process of chaos by making it possible for journalists, academics, students, artists, politicians to decide on the rule of law. During this process, the entire Turkish community was affected by the process. There has been no explanation for the political foot that operates the organization of the congregation alone. Why is Idris Bauken under arrest right now? Why are you holding him hostage? Because he asked about the political foot of the congregation. He said, "Where is the political foot of the congregation?," he said, "Why don't you reveal the political foot of this coup?" Today there is no question that İdris Bauken was taken hostage, that a group of our vice presidents were taken hostage.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0217par0428	Don't shout! Don't shout!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0216par0429	We're going to shout, we're going to shout even louder, because you're part of this process; we're going to scream for it, and we're going to scream for it. No group president says here that we had coffee with our vice president. Let's ask him why he's being held hostage now. But what is it?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0217par0430	He was arrested for terrorism, terrorism.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0216par0431	You're the head of terror, and you've done it.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0217par0432	He was arrested for terrorism.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0216par0433	You are the political foot of the congregation, and you will be exposed.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0218par0434	Mr. Ironel, please, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0219par0435	Why are you yelling? Speak properly. Why didn't he go and testify?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0220par0436	What's that got to do with anything? What's that got to do with anything? Are you gonna arrest him for not testifying?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0221par0437	We'll see you, we'll see, we'll see how his political foot will be exposed.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0219par0438	You don't say a word to the PKK, you're not ashamed. You can't scare us. Enough!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0220par0439	Shame, shame, she can't take care of your sister, she's in prison, you even drew her, you're so ungrateful.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0219par0440	You can't. Speak properly. You can't scare us.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0222par0444	I'm going to read the next motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the terms of the 405-line bill of law shall be changed in the form of ▪90-days. Çağlar Demirel (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0223par0451	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0224par0452	You're ungrateful.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0225par0453	Enough!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0224par0454	What happened? Wasn't Merve Kavakci your sister?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0226par0455	Mr. Yigitalp, look, you're going to have a speaker on your own proposal, and it's not right to shout from place to place, and it's not appropriate.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0224par0456	But why is he yelling?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0227par0457	No reciprocal, no reciprocal.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0228par0458	Don't let him scream. Mr. President, tell him not to scream from here to there.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0224par0459	What are you warning me for? Why do you only mention my name?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0229par0460	I'm telling all the MPs.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0230par0461	No, you don't treat everyone equally, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0229par0462	The person who wants to speak on the motion is Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0231par0465	Of course we will, 10 of our friends are in prison. So what do we do?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0229par0466	Dear Heroalp, please, I beg you. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0232par0468	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, look, you're from that time, you've been acting as the group president for many years. When a group of vice presidents is talking, you start to read the motion, you give a name for our group, but when the opposition comes from us, I stand up and say to all the MPs....... I want to say that your attitude is not right, that you are not fair, that you are not equitable. Precious MPs should be a country facing Europe. Every development in the last few years, education, health, Mr. Secretary here, he knows, education policies have taken a certain distance from the European Union education programmes. We know very well that your training programs, like Erasmus, Socrates, Leonardo, Comenius, are still being run by the National Agency. In this sense, when relations with the European Union are good and designing according to it, I would like to read some of the sentences and promises spoken here as legal changes are being made, and some of the sentences that followed the course of the negotiations on full membership. Yes, on December 20, 2004, the Prime Minister of the period was speaking: "With the decision of December 17th, there has been a serious gain to rise to the level of civilization that Ataturk had shown as the target." Again, the prime minister of the period: "So far, I thank the government and the government, the bureaucrats, the scientists, the journalists, the NGOs, the civil society organizations who have been shut down today, with scientists who have been fired from work." Turkey now has a clear date for negotiations, which is October 3, 2005, and has been set as a target for this date, which is the goal of full membership. The goal of full membership is also available in these records, and as distributed, these are not the works that are said to be done. There are 25 countries that have approved this, and there are also South Cyprus in those countries that have approved it, and you cannot put it aside. It is described by the observers as a silent revolution. We are determined to continue the reform process, this silent revolution, and fully reflect it. So there's no serious problem here. For God's sake, think about it. I wonder if there's 10 votes in favor of Turkey in favor of the European Parliament until now. Now, in favour of Turkey, there are more than 400 votes of "yes" and "yes," Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. He's singing from that podium. On that day, for the European Union, representatives who voted 400 votes for Turkey to meet both economic and political criteria, to move ahead in negotiations, recommend that talks, especially talks, talks be frozen because it did not meet its obligations today. As it is known, European Parliament decisions -- I underline this -- have no binding quality. However, the image of the European Parliament voting on decisions that they said yes to Turkey has actually been a huge publicity for Turkey. We need to get a good look at this place. Again, on that day, he says: "Ha, there's something here." What is it? There is no guarantee of full membership. Those before us were given full membership, but after that, for example, England was able to finish negotiations in eleven and a half years. Our goal is to fulfill all obligations and become a full member. We have a strong time ahead of us, and we're ready to make every effort. The decision to start negotiations is an important success for Turkey. Turkey has this success on the agenda of the entire world. There is a more difficult period ahead of us, but most importantly, the process of reform is to be expanded in all areas. We are prepared to make every effort in this direction. In the process, we also value the cooperation and support of the European Union. We're making that very clear. May our saintly nation be blessed at some point. These decisions will allow our children to live in a better Turkey. For his support on this matter so far, I thank the main opposition party again, thank the other opposition lawmakers, thank our NGOs again. That's what I had to say in order to express some of the facts here. With the EU, the establishment of a modern Turkey will be on the agenda. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0233par0483	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0234par0484	There's a request for a roll call before we submit the motion to your votes, and we'll meet that demand first. Mr. Gök, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Karadeniz, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Emir, Mr. Sarıbal, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Cleanel, Mr. Akin, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Ayata, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Yilmaz. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the 19th article, so I'll have them read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "Those who have not returned to office within two months of the end of the 19th article of the Law Bill of the Law and Law shall be relieved of their duty after the removal of the reason for their monthly leave." We offer and propose that the two-month period in the declaration be changed to "three months." Mustafa Ali Balbay Gaye Beseler Levent Gök Nihat Green Vecdi Gündüz Ceyhun İrgil Mahmut Tanal Murat Minister Ahmet Akin Tur Yıldız Bicer Murat Amir Mehmet Göker Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the removal of the non-monthly declarations of Law Bill 405 in Article 19 of the existing 405 rows. Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Wish Ocalan Feleknas Uca Ayhan Bilgen Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 19 of the main Law Bill (1/711) be changed in the following way. Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Argi Erdem Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Deniz Depboylu It is decided by the Ministry of National Education on behalf of higher education institutions and the appropriate view of the mandatory service obligations of students who are undergraduate to the Ministry of Education and to the transfer of to higher education institutions and public institutions and institutions. The transfer of the mandatory service obligations to public institutions and institutes of higher education to public institutions and higher education institutions is decided by the Ministry of National Education. Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0235par0521	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0234par0522	Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu, who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0236par0525	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on behalf of our National Movement Party Group. I salute the nation of St. Turk and all of you. Dear lawmakers, our country faced a treacherous attack on the Turkish Republic and Turkish nation on the night of July 15th. As a follower of serious and effective work by terrorist organisations, we expect the state and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to perform its duties perfectly. Today, we hear from their confessors how those who carried out the attack on July 15th were raised in private homes, which had been convinced of themselves or their families, by the allegations of good education, surveillance and protection in their early childhood. It is called the religious, political and ideological abuse of children. The meetings held at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where there is no control of the houses and dorms involved, are not in our jurisdiction. It is understood from his reply. When we asked them, how many houses are there? They argued that they were unaware of homes. Mr. Secretary, it is not difficult to identify the homes of children who are studying at any educational institution, just to intend to find out the existence and addresses of these houses. Because class teachers, counselors, school psychologists, who work in schools, fill out forms that contain this information all the time. Not trying to access these information is an attempt to ignore the flaw. Unfortunately, the power that governs the state is no more than the importance of children and their words about protecting them with good intentions. The AKP, which we have warned of as the National Movement Party for December 17th to 25th, defends this move and its leader before the alleged corruption, and today acknowledges that they are wrong and accept the organization as a terrorist group. What the AKP government has to do from now on is blow out yogurt so that it doesn't repeat the same mistakes and once again be wrong. As it is known, power first began to shut down village schools and sentenced children to transport education. The boarding schools where children who can't continue their education with transport education can't provide safety. They have started shutting down on the grounds that children, foundations and associations are therefore in need of non-registered homes. To remind you again, under the second joke of Article 41 of the Constitution, the state is obliged to take measures concerning the protection of children. The Ministry of National Education must control the institutions in which it is responsible to identify and prevent early threats to children and take precautions and prevent abuse. I can't do this job. Closing boarding schools by saying, "It's a weakness to avoid opening new ones." In order for children who have to study away from their families to live safely in healthy environments, the state must invest, open dorms or boarding district elementary schools. Education, protection of children is not the duty of foundations and associations. And while we're considering the abuses that have occurred so far, I'm afraid we're not seeing a very pleasant outcome. We went to Karaman, as a commission to prevent child abuse, and Karaman was not investigated on the basis of the negligence and imperfection of the investigations required after the sad incident of our children. Even the county child protection co-ordinating board has not been established, and we've already been informed of that. The lack of an investigation, the lack of negligence, and the absence of flaws after such bad events, is not a valid position, but a weakness of government. Because the deterrent of punishment over a lifetime for the active crime is not enough to prevent similar crimes. Today, unfortunately, we know that many of our children have been abused in Adıyaman. I hope that there will be no display of the weakness shown in Karaman, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0237par0536	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the removal of the non-monthly declarations of Law Bill 405 in Article 19 of the existing 405 rows. Çağlar Demirel (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0238par0544	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0237par0545	Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen is asking for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0239par0548	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have just approved a speech on full-time travel, I think they'll be clear about that, but I read yesterday the Undersecretary's statement about reducing the number of classes. That, of course, is possible together, there are training models like this in the world, but we have, in practice, how to apply this, actually, I haven't been able to quite figure it out. Hopefully, it'll turn into a more concrete project, and we'll find out. I'd like to point out something about teachers returning to duty today. Of course, around 6,000 teachers are glad to have returned to their post without further delay, but with a decree in September, around 11,200 teachers have been suspended, and now half of them have returned. At the time, they determined 11 grand based on what, how was it detected? In the meantime, this 6,000 was chosen based on what? In fact, this painting clearly shows that the people, the people, the teachers, must prove their innocence. It's against the most fundamental rule of law. I mean, you're going to be relieved by a decree, and then those people are going to make an effort to prove they're not in their alleged position, and if they're lucky, they're going to make it back. This approach itself is a violation of rights from beginning to end. If this is a psychological warfare technique, let's not do it to the teachers. It might mean something to security units, but let's not do it to teachers. Dear lawmakers, the debate here sometimes reminds me of February 28th. A close friend of mine was kicked out of the Armed Forces on February 28th, and the reason he was discharged was in the following words in the letter issued to him: "Hezbollah belongs to the Adıyaman Range cult. This is official writing. So, you remove an officer from duty, and the letter that you sent out said that he belonged to the Adıyaman Range cult of Hizbollah. Now, on this bench just now -- it's going on official records, it's going on reports -- Group Comment has been associated with MLKP. I mean, I don't want to say any more, but please don't repeat the grave mistakes of February 28th for others. We're dealing with an extremely inconsistent painting. Look, a few hours ago, the Turkish Foreign Ministry announced it welcomed the peace agreement between the Colombian government and the FARC guerrillas. Of course that's true, but shouldn't a government that welcomes the agreement between the FARC guerrillas and the Colombian government have a similar approach to their own problems? Mr. President, he went to Pakistan. He said, "Let the Kashmir problem be solved according to the will of the Kashmirites and the people of Kashmir." That is the correct expression. Of course, that's the way it's supposed to be, but Kashmir is divisive in terms of India, friends, it's very open separatism; there's no other explanation. Let it be resolved by the will of the people of Qashmir. If there is a standard acceptance, it must mean something to all the peoples all over the world. Turkey mediated the issue between the Philippines and Moro for a long time. NGOs have left; Mr. Davutoglu, the former Prime Minister has done a busy work. The peaceful resolution of a very important 50-year-old problem, of course, is a very valuable initiative, but as a result, the Moro Islamic Movement is a separatist movement for the Philippines. Dear lawmakers, we react here when the expression "Kurdish provinces" is used, culturally, sociologically, historically. Not 24 hours after Neçirvan Barzani left, Mesut Barzani's statement to the press was dropped: No independent Kurdistan can be prevented by anyone, and no power can prevent it. Dear lawmakers, if you recommend something to someone else, you will obey it yourself, and if you want it for yourself, you will ask for it for someone else. This is the need for politics to be consistent. A policy can be wrong, it can be right; you can test it, you can be wrong, you can fix it, you can fix it, you can fix it, but if it's not consistent, you can't even test its error, you can't even test its accuracy. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0240par0559	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "Those who have not returned to office within two months after the removal of the reason for their monthly leave has been eliminated by the 19th Article of the Law and Law Act." We offer and propose that the two-month period in the declaration be changed to "three months." Levent Gök (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0241par0567	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0240par0568	Ankara MP Murat Amir has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0242par0571	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Today, we received good news that our 6,007 teachers, our education teacher, were reinstated, and we were happy to hear it. However, I don't think the Minister deserves a thank you for that. Dear friends, in the Ministry declaration, the investigations and investigations on these individuals continue. Why did you remove 6,007 teachers? On what grounds? We said over and over again, you're doing it wrong, we said you can't fight terrorist organizations like this. Just because he's hostile, we've stated that trying to silence all the teachers, all the social groups will have no consequences, but you chose not to listen to them here. But in the end, look, we're going through a process where we don't know what it's based on, what it's based on, what it's returned to. In all of these, there is a sin, there is injustice, there is injustice, and they are all on the neck of this government, and they are on the back of the AKP Group, who are so indifferent to this government. Dear friends, the field of education is at the top of the areas where your government has failed most, one of the fields. Anyway, the deputy leader of the group just said, "Yes, we need to discuss this educational system, we need to talk about the system." They say, "Good morning!" You've been in power for 14 years, you're still talking about the education system. You've forgotten how many times you've done it, how many times you've broken it. You don't even know how many exams a kid has to take before he starts in kindergarten and gets his Ph.D. No bureaucrat, including the last three exam systems, Mr. Secretary, is currently intercessively able to say in the open. All the concepts, the exams are mixed together, and in that, unfortunately, we're trying to figure out how to get education out of this mess, but first of all, this understanding, this head needs to be changed, dear friends. Look, he's so failed that you won't explain the central exam results. So in the university exam, what success does the Turkish student perform in the TEOG exams, how many questions can he answer, averages, standard deviations? Look, we don't know these numbers, they're hiding. Well, aren't there things that can't be hidden? Of course I do. The OECD has a PISA program, and we're a member of it, making 64 countries, taking 15-year-olds, taking exams, and you should know that the results we get from those exams are pathetic. I mean, we're the best of a race, we're the 45th in mathematics, we're 41st in science, we're the 37th in understanding that you're studying. I mean, I'm looking, you're reading, but, dear friends, unfortunately, when you realize that you're reading, you know, the people of this country, you're all in on it -- we're way behind.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0243par0575	Aren't you?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0242par0576	I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, but we're trying to change this order, we have to try. I'm at least ashamed that Turkey is the 45th in the OECD ranking, and I'm sorry, and I expect you to feel the same shame. Besides, you're the ruling party, and I'm the opposition.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0244par0577	But you've got a lot of work to do, a lot of work.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0242par0578	Look, you've been in power for 14 years, you've been in your fifteenth year, let's still discuss the system.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0244par0579	If you're against it, you'll have to work hard.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0245par0580	Osman, this is education, not wrestling.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0242par0581	Look, there are teachers who can't be appointed, 400 thousand teachers who can't be appointed, friends. There was nothing wrong with the teacher who couldn't be appointed when you arrived, but if there's 400 thousand unappointed teachers today, who's to blame for that? Of course it's on the back of power. Dear friends, since teachers can't be appointed, they have to work many other jobs, there are police, there are martyrs, there are mine workers, there are vendors. Look, I read in a newspaper, Mr. President, that he wanted to be a announcer, and that he took the TRT. His first choice was to be a announcer. I think if he had won, if he had been a announcer, he'd be a better announcer than the presidency. Dear friends, with this understanding, I respectfully salute the General Assembly and recommend that our educational system be quickly seated, calmly and without the goal of raising a spiteful and religious generation, to raise free, free, wise, free generations. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0246par0587	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The Minister has a brief explanation. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0247par0594	Reverend President, I'm going to make a very brief statement, and the essence is that you just announced to all of your institutions that a representative of ours was founded, that you wanted to be a member. There was an explanation, and I'd like to give you some information about that. After the ACTIF EDUCATION is established, it says: "You must announce us to your institutions." What the Ministry says is: "It is established, it has the number of files, it has to be announced to all personnel in your units. There is a hearing in your units, not a member." But it's not just about the ACTIF EDUCATION, it's right in front of me, ATASEN, another one of our Ministry of Labor has been established and given this number by the Ministry of Labor, to announce your information to those concerned. Our Ministry is sending it to the central agency and the governorship of 81. Another is that the Union of Scholars and Developmental Education Workers has been established and your information and the announcement of the matter to all personnel in your units. (ASEN: The Union of Education and Accounting Workers has been established, making necessary announcements to your institution, since we are going to start registering in the required line of work. There's about 20 or 30 degrees of union here, so I can give it to you, you can look at it. Thus, a trade union, thought to be democratic, moves into a structure and a structure within your own family, saying, "Tell it to the members. " It's not just for a union, it's for almost everyone who's applied to the Ministry. For your information.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0246par0596	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0248par0597	Mr. Secretary, what's the date?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0247par0598	2010, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, Union 2014.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0599	Mr. Secretary, can you give me his release date? Let's put it on the record.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0247par0600	Sure.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0601	Please high...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0247par0602	We'd like to announce a request for 3/5/2012. Secondly...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0603	No, no, no, no.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0247par0604	There's one more, please stop, and I'll tell you that. Another one, ATA EDUCATION, 2005...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0606	Sir, I'm asking about ACTIFSEN.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0247par0607	Here, here, here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0608	Mr. Secretary, can you tell me what happened? The date of the ACTIFENSEN to announce to your organizations. I also said that I glorify you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0247par0609	It's January 2, 2014.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0610	So, Mr. President, the ruling party, which adopted 17-25 December 2013 as a multi-national for ▪, personally, in 2014...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0247par0611	In January.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0612	...has officially announced the foundation of the ACTIFSEN union to the governors, schools, where his money will be invested. That's all there is to it. That's what we're saying. If you are receiving 17-25 terms, what will you do with the Ministry of National Education, which announced the ACTIFSEN in 2014? There you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0250par0613	Mr. Sky, it's on the record. It was described as the January of 2014.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0614	Here you go. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0250par0615	On the 20th article...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0616	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0250par0617	It's on the record, you've repeated it two or three times, over and out, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0618	Mr. President, look, Mr. President, just a second.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0250par0619	Mr. Sky, look, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0620	Just a moment, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0250par0621	Okay.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0622	We're talking about something important.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0251par0623	Mr. Sky, that's not the hand. What does that mean? This?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0250par0624	There is no such procedure, Mr. Sky. Get into the system, and I'll give you my word for a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0625	The Minister has taken his word. I'm making a statement.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0250par0626	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0627	I thank him.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0250par0628	Thanks.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0629	He's explaining something very important right now.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0252par0630	Shame on you! This is the Minister.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0253par0631	Everyone here is the potential minister, Hajji.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0632	We have told prosecutors that in the fight against the AKP, we received 17-25 December 2013. But Mr. Secretary says that in 2014, the foundation of the AKTIFSEN -- the establishment of the union that was said to be related to the Union -- the government personally informed the governors of the National Education Ministry, all the schools. No?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0254par0633	Mr. Sky, it's on the record. The announcement was made in 2014, Mr. Secretary said.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0634	So, what are the prosecutors gonna do? What are the prosecutors going to do? How can you be so insensitive? That's not possible.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0254par0638	There are four motions on the 20th article, which I'm having read and processed.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0639	I mean, here, Mr. Secretary... all prosecutors have to handle this as a criminal complaint.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0254par0640	Mr. Sky, we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0249par0641	Whoever is the Minister of National Education at the time, and whoever has given instructions, must be investigated for the matter.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0254par0642	Mr. Sky, come in. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 20 of the Law Bill 405 be changed in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Mujahit Durmişoğlu Halis Dalklıç He's from...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0255par0652	Can you do that? No. Where's the heart? Where's the heart? I have it, sir. I've got one. That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0256par0653	But the gesture is very wrong, Mr. Sky. That's a terrible thing to do. It doesn't suit you. The joke of Article 33 (b) of Article 6245, dated 20-10/2/1954, added to the Article 33 (b) of the Harcirah Law, including the Deputy Inspectors of the Maarif and Deputy Inspectors of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and the Deputy Inspectors of Youth and Sports, and the Deputy Inspectors of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and the Deputy Inspectors of the Ministry of Maarif, before the declaration.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0255par0655	I mean, look, how did you get caught in contact with...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0256par0656	It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0255par0657	Your group vice president does that, too. What's in it?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0256par0658	They wouldn't do that.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0255par0659	What's in it?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0256par0660	That's not possible. What do you mean?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0257par0661	Congressmans, I beg you...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0255par0662	You answer this challenge.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0256par0663	We do. We're doing it. We're fighting it. We're doing it.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0255par0664	Give me the answer to the fight. Is it that simple?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0258par0665	Now, I'm going to have three motions that I'm going to read, and I'm going to do the same thing, and I'm going to do it together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 20 of the Law Bill 405 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel Ayşe Acar Acar Başaran Dilek Öcalan Sibel Yiğitalp Feleknas Uca Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Ali Balbay Gaye Bezeler Mehmet Göker Nihat Green Vecdi Gündoğdu Ömer Fethi Gürer Mahmut Tanal Ahmet Akin Murat Minister Tur Star Kerçer Ceyhun İrgil Levent Gök The signatures of the other motion are: Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Desire Virtue Kamil Aydın of the Sea Depboy Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree. Government, do you agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0259par0689	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0258par0690	Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu is asking for a statement on the first motion of the same nature. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0260par0693	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on behalf of our National Movement Party Group. I salute the nation of St. Turk and all of you. Congressmans, during the Justice and Development Party, our teachers suffered many financial spiritual losses. There are days when he has to live on limited income, but also when he's afraid of losing his job. TÜRK KAMU-SEN and Turkish Education conducted a survey of teachers' socioeconomic status, professional issues, view of current events from 2 November to 15 November 2016. I would like to share with you the results of this survey: 80 percent of teachers make money below the poverty line. They owe everybody, I'm afraid. 36% of teachers have no home; 36 per cent pay mortgages, 32 per cent live in rent. 21% of them have taken out loans from banks for their children's education. 25 percent of them are moonlighting. 47% of them must use more than two credit cards because they are difficult to buy directly with their income. Twenty-two percent of teachers have a tradeshop, 25 per cent have a cash debt, 52 per cent have a credit card debt to a bank, 52 per cent have a credit card debt. One of the additional jobs that teachers do is marketing, marketing, marketing, painting, painting, repairs, auto sales, driving, waitressing, musicianry, plumbering, cooking, heating, wood, coal sales. The cost of food spending is $1.509 for a family of four to be healthy, balanced, and adequate to feed. The total amount of other expenditures for food spending, clothing, housing, rent, electricity, water, fuel, such as transportation, education, health care and so on is 6.192. Teachers must receive nearly half the salary of the poverty line. Our teachers can't even explain their ideas. 60% are not hopeful of the future. 64 percent of them can't explain their ideas freely. 24 per cent of teachers say that they are under political pressure by school administrators, while 69% think that their executives have been appointed under the influence of political power. Most teachers don't even want their kids to be teachers anymore. It's a very sad thing to do. The picture in polls for about 26,000 teachers is: 31.3 per cent of them chose this profession because they were able to score for teaching programmes. Again, 42.3% of participants do not want their children to become teachers or teachers. 65.7% believe their social status is getting lower. We also need to address the problems of our schools. Schools where our teachers serve and where they provide education services also have many problems. I'm afraid schools can't get enough support from the government at the point of maintaining their presence in good health and quality. Fuel supplies are inconclusive. At the cleaning point, the number of servants is insufficient, and there is not enough money for supplies. Schools are constantly warned not to receive financial aid from parents. It's in the parents' knowledge. Unfortunately, though, the parents, school administrations and school families face each other when schools have to go to the parent's office to ensure that the children remain in a healthier environment and their educational material can be met. Without financial assistance for schools, it is also difficult for schools to perform repairs, renovations, and so on. Of course, parents shouldn't be hurt financially, but teachers in schools and administrators shouldn't be exposed to parents in these kinds of problems. As long as government assistance goes to schools, as long as we take care of our schools, as long as we honor our teachers, our future will be exalted, I salute you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0261par0702	Thank you. Ankara MP Levent Gök has asked for a statement on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0262par0706	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, I have not received an answer from any AKP MP to the question I have just asked here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0263par0707	If you call him an AK PARTY guy...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0264par0708	What did you ask?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0262par0709	I'm going back to the AKP MPs, and I want answers from them.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0263par0710	There's no AKP MP here, there's no AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0265par0711	Mr. Levent, there's no AKP MP here, these are AK PARTI MPs.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0262par0712	My dear friends, do you believe that the fight against ▪ is being fought sincerely? Do you believe that?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0266par0713	We do.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0262par0714	Then why are you still holding Şaban Tooth as Vice President, why are you holding him?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0267par0715	What's in Şaban Tooth?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0262par0716	Why are you holding it?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0268par0717	Why are you holding Kılıçdaroğlu?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0269par0718	Let's not get personal, please, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0262par0719	What's the connection between the brother of a man who's in charge of the coup? Now...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0270par0721	Look at you, Mr. Sky. Look inside yourself.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0271par0722	What? What's he gonna do?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0272par0723	What's it to you?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0724	It's not about you, it's about the nation, it's about the people.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0274par0725	Look inside yourself.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0272par0726	Who's to blame, guilty?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0727	Mr. Secretary has just announced the political connection of ا.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0272par0728	Who's to blame, guilty?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0729	Now, the government is screaming, saying that December 17th-25th is the nation.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0275par0730	Mr. President, let them listen.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0276par0731	What does Article 38 of the Constitution say?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0732	At this date, until this date, all those related to this date will be tried, won't they? December 17-25. This is the National Security Council's decision in 2004, and Fetullah has reported it, and he said, "Be careful of this." Hilmi Ozkok, the chief of staff of the time, has made a statement in the coup commission. We reported it to the government, and no one took precautions. Are they lies or lies? Call me a liar.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0277par0734	That's a lie...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0278par0735	What did he say? What did he say?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0736	They're lies, but look, the Minister told the truth. There's a union called the AKTIFSEN Union, which is stated to be related to the National Ministry of Education... Members of this union are arrested, expelled, fired for membership in this union.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0277par0737	It was an active union, now it's a passive union. The active union became a passive union.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0738	Now, in 2014, your administration, the Minister of National Education at the time, not Mr. Ismet, but during the Nabi Avcı period...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0277par0739	It's active, passive union accounting.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0740	...in a letter to the governors in the name of the president, reporting to all the police, all the schools; membership in the AKTIFSEN union with drums is reported to everyone on December 17th and 25th.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0277par0741	He's passive, passive.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0742	This is the bank number, it's reported to all personnel to be members, to be careful of everyone, to be a member of this. Is that a lie? Mr. Secretary has released his document. Has Ismet Yilmaz lied now? What did he say? After December 15th and 25th, the Ministry of National Education announced the establishment of a trade union related to the Union, which bank will be deposited in. What are you doing? Where's the political responsibility for this, who? Prosecutors, where are you? People of the AKP, why are you laughing when you're going to cry?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0277par0743	We're from the AK PARTY, from the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0744	Why are you laughing? Why are you laughing?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0277par0745	Levent President, we're from the AK PARTY, there's no AKP people here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0746	Now, this matter of Fetullah Gulen, every time he comes into the environment, the AKP people have a saying about Fetullah Gulen. Once you've...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0277par0747	Yeah, there's no AKP people here, President, you're telling the wrong thing, there's AK PARTY people here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0279par0748	Don't be ashamed of your name.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0749	There is almost no AKPlı who has no contact with Fetullah Smiley.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0280par0750	Does lying suit you? Do those words suit you? Does that sound right to the Deputy Chairman of the CHP?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0751	There's a group of vice presidents coming out, saying: "The AKP saved the laughing person." Who says that? Says your group vice president. We've changed the law, you left-wingers, sit down and laugh. We saved the laughing one, he says. Who says that? Says your group vice president. I mean, on the one hand...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0281par0752	Fetullah Smiley has two pardons, both from Ecevit.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0753	Do you forgive me? You say you forgive. So you will forgive Fetullah Smiley, and you will inform the establishment of their union by drum; and the National Security Council will decide, and the National Security Council will say, "Take precautions on this." Is that a thing?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0282par0755	He's doing theater. You're in the theater. CHP's deputy group president is doing theater there.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0283par0756	Fetollah has two pardons, both from Ecevit.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0757	So you're going to say that you ruled the National Security Board disappear and you're going to get away with it.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0284par0758	Where will you put the late Ecevit, where will you put the late Ecevit?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0759	But Mr. Secretary has just made a report to the prosecutors, saying: "In my Ministry, when I am not the Minister..."
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0285par0760	What the hell is CHP doing right now? Let's talk about the present, what is CHP doing now, CHP? No, what about the CHP?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0761	..that the ACTIFSEN Union was founded...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0286par0762	Yeah, you don't have an ACTIF, you're passive-senseful, you're passive-senseful.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0763	The bank accounts are all over the place. Come on, let's get out of here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0287par0764	Yeah, get out of it! Where's CHP now? You have no attitude. What's your attitude right now?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0765	I'm looking for a brave prosecutor in this country, a courageous prosecutor.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0287par0767	What's your attitude? What is CHP's attitude, CHP's position?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0768	Don't talk like that, don't talk like that by signing a motion you haven't read. Speech! Look, Mr. Secretary, the official document has been issued, get up and boo him! You're in contact with Fetullah Gülen.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0288par0770	You don't have any, you have a passive-sense.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0273par0771	You've mauled him, raised him, attacked the government, but you don't answer, those days will come.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0289par0773	What is CHP's attitude now?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0290par0774	Didn't the late Ecevit (Ecevit) have the support of the family?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0291par0775	Mardin MP Erol Dora has asked for a statement on the other proposal of the same nature.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0292par0776	Go ahead, deny the Minister, not me. Don't mess with me today, deal with the Minister.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0291par0777	Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0292par0779	Look, the 2014 document explained, Mr. Secretary, thank you for revealing the truth to him. Go with him with courage, with courage.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0293par0780	President, you told the AKP people, there are AK PARTY people here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0292par0781	Be brave, brave!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0294par0782	Congressmans, please... Mr. Dora, just a moment... Congressmans, look, let's do our reviews without having to deal with the character, one.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0295par0785	Osman says history, the year 2014.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0296par0786	This is the document, the document. This is your minister speaking. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0297par0787	We're talking about your treachery.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0788	Congressman, look, I've invited Mr. Dora to the stand. Please, don't bother with the person...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0296par0789	What are you talking about? Answer the Minister, not me. You can afford me?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0790	Dear brothers, dear friends, please...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0296par0791	You can't afford me, you can't afford the Minister.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0792	Again, we express the individuality of crimes and punishments on every platform, but when it comes to our work, we violate it, so please be careful with that. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0296par0794	Mr. President, don't lead by side.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0795	I'm not running it by side.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0296par0796	You talk when it suits you, you don't have to comment.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0797	Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0296par0798	I'll talk here. I'm a congressman. You're the president. There's a serious claim.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0800	I'm a congressman, too, and I'm a congressman.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0296par0801	Mr. Secretary has made a statement. Why don't you give him a comment?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0802	I'm not commenting. Mr. Dora, I'll reboot.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0296par0804	You talk about everything. Don't you think that's a crime? Isn't that the crime the Minister explained?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0805	Mr. Sky, don't we always use this expression, the principle of individuality of crimes and punishment?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0296par0806	Isn't that a crime? Isn't that a crime?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0807	Don't we use it? We use it, but when it suits us, we violate it in a very comfortable way.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0296par0808	You comment when it suits you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0809	I'm saying we shouldn't, for all of us, not just for you, for everyone.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0296par0810	Mr. Secretary has issued an official document, official document. You're trying to get away from this, aren't you?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0811	Mr. Dora, I'm sorry. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0296par0813	They're up and they're fighting it. I'll laugh at all of you, all of you!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0299par0815	Yeah, that's enough! Just sit down!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0816	Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0296par0817	Get up, answer the Minister, don't answer me.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0818	Let's be respectful to the minister, the speaker is on the stand. Look, he's been on the stand for three minutes. Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0296par0820	Look, that's no way to fight a man. Do as he says, then speak to me, then speak to me. Cowards!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0300par0821	That's enough, that's enough, that's enough! We're gonna talk about you for two hours?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0822	Mr. Sky, look, the speaker is on the stand, please.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0300par0823	That's enough!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0301par0824	Your heart isn't enough, is it? You have not been able to appoint Şaban Tooth. Why are you holding Şaban Tooth? Why are you holding it?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0825	Here you go, Mr. Dora, rebooting your time.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0302par0826	That's not how it works, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0298par0827	Come in, come in, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0303par0828	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs of the National Ministry of Education have been informed that the bill of law concerning the amendment of the State of Law on the State of the Union and its Offices...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0304par0829	Mr. Gök, let's not talk about Alper Keten and Ahmet Caner New World here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0303par0830	I have made a promise on the 20th Amendment. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0305par0831	Mayor, they're not listening, not like this!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0304par0832	Your Party Council member, both expelled from the academy.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0306par0833	Mr. Sergeant, please!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0307par0834	Let's do it.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0304par0835	Don't talk here, don't talk. Don't talk here. Shouldn't Alper Keten and Ahmet Caner talk about the New World here?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0308par0836	The courts are in your hands, so do it.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0304par0837	Party councilman, why don't you throw it away? Why don't you throw it away? They threw it away, they exported it, why don't you throw it away?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0309par0838	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0310par0839	Mr. Erol, come, Mr. Erol.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0311par0840	Just a second, I'll reboot.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0310par0841	That's not how it works, Mayor, is it?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit05spe0311par0842	I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0311par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 405. The commission and the government are in place. We stayed in the motion process on Article 20. Now, I'd like to call Mardin MP Erol Dora Özakça, the last speaker of the motions on the same property, to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0312par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 20th Amendment to the Amendment to the State of the Law on the Offices of the National Ministry of Education. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers are already satisfied with the fact that teaching is a very sacred and honorable profession, which is spent only on November 24th, and that the stereotypes of how valuable teachers are are, and those statements are no longer valuable in the eyes of educational workers. To put it another way, instead of solving the real problems of education and teachers, the regular speeches of those who are persistently ignoring them must come to an end. Dear lawmakers, we are in a dark period where teachers are afraid to criticize political power, pass on their problems and show their democratic demands. We see a period when those who have been suspended from the organised struggle, who have resisted the organised struggle, are being punished and even the most legitimate rights demands are being investigated. Dear lawmakers, the number of educators suspended and expelled after the coup process has exceeded 50,000. Because of these activities, which have nothing to do with the coup and the union activities, nearly 10,000 members of the Education have been out in the open for seventy-six days and are waiting to return to duty. The right to education of at least 1.5 million students, as a result of exports and suspension practices in education, has been effectively blocked by the government itself by the implementation of the Ministry of National Education. Dear lawmakers, many teachers who have been sacrificed across the country over the years face antidemocratic practices such as exports, suspensions, detentions, arrests, investigations and exiles, based on the State of Emergency law. For example, is it possible for a teacher to teach human rights, citizenship and democracy, taught to elementary school students, to have a sad smile on his face as he describes universal human rights, equality, justice, rule of law and democracy in these days, when the State of Emergency law swings like the sword of Damocles? The educational system is drifting into more chaos and darkness than ever before in history. Dear lawmakers, increasingly in the past 14 years, the voice of universities, media, trade unions and other democratic mass organizations has been tried to be silenced, and many of the country's workers are being disciplined by the threat of prison and unemployment. In these ominous days of the State of Emergency, the news is that teachers who can't bear the humiliating consequences of being ill-fated, seeing themselves without a home, being unemployed, and ultimately not bringing their children a loaf of bread are attempting to commit suicide. Mr. President, on the other hand, the research results of a trade union operating in the training department reveal the severe psychological trauma of OPEC law on teachers. According to these research results, 52 per cent of teachers live in fear of being dismissed, and 66 per cent say they can't express themselves freely in the teachers' room. Precious lawmakers, based on the overall application of education in the past 14 years, extreme, irrational, forced approaches in education continue to be a major threat to our children's right to education and increase social tension every second. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's not a problem in education, which one should we count? Let's finish where we started then. Not only the teachers of Turkey, but all the education and science workers, not only will they be remembered one day each year... but the problems of teachers will continue as long as their economic, social, and professional problems are not produced realistic and permanent solutions. In that sense, again, once again, I invite the Ministry of National Education and the Minister to be sensitive, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0313par0019	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0314par0021	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0313par0022	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. I'll vote on an electronic voting device. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0315par0026	Mr. President, it appears, you can see it's gone.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0313par0027	Okay, or you don't, we'll take a break. Initiating two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's enough to make a decision. The motions of the same nature have been rejected. Mr. Sky, I see you're entering the system. I promise you one minute, according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0316par0037	Mr. President, I know the argument that just happened here has disturbed a lot of people. Mr. Secretary has just announced a very important document on how sincere he is in the fight against the government. What action will be taken on the minister of all governorships during the Ministry of Nabi Avcı, as to those responsible for sending to national education schools, after the appointment of an AKTIFSEN trade union, which has been adopted for the fight against ▪ after which almost everyone who has been shut down and is a member has been arrested or expelled? The question is very clear and simple. If the answer to that question cannot be answered, the fight against Turkey will never succeed. The truth we seek is the truth.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0313par0040	Complete, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0316par0042	On the one hand, you'll adopt 17-25 December 2013, then you'll send a letter to everyone on behalf of the Minister of Education in 2014, encouraging them to join this union...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0317par0043	No incentives.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0316par0044	...which bank should be deposited. Won't the political connection be investigated? That's the truth we're looking for. Why does everyone bother? Of course it's a disturbing painting. Let no one deceive themselves, unless they are confronted with these things.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0318par0045	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 20 of the Law Bill 405 be changed in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends The joke of Article 33 (b) of Article 6245, dated 20-10/2/54, added to the Article 33 (b) of the Harcirah Law, including the Deputy Inspectors of the Maarif and Deputy Inspectors of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, as well as the supervisors of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, as well as the Deputy Inspectors of the Ministry of Maarif. Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0319par0057	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0320par0058	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0318par0059	I'm having it read. Article 33 (b) of the Harcirah Law, dated 10/2/1954, has been envisioned to be changed so that the names of those mentioned may be given to the auditors and auditors of the Ministry of Youth and Sports who have the authority to inspect, audit and study at the Turkish level. I submit to your votes the motion of Mustafa Elitaş and his friends, whom I have given his reason to read: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 20th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the 21st article, so I'll have them read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "fiction" in Article 21 of the current 405 rows of the Bill of Law shall be changed into "participation in the frame." Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Mehmet Ali Aslan İbrahim Ayhan İmam Taşçıer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "vacal higher education institutions" in Article 21 of the draft Code of the Law and Law shall be changed under the provisions of the National Ministry of Education of 405 rankings in the General Assembly, and shall be changed into "high-school institutions run as autonomous by a foundation." Gaye Beceler Vecdi Gündü Nihat Green Mahmut Tanal Levent Gök Ahmet Akin Ceyhun İrgil Tur Yıldız Birçer Mustafa Ali Balbay Mehmet Göker Murat Minister Murat Emir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 21 of Law Bill 1/721 be changed in the following way. Zühal Topci Desire Erdem Spiritual Ersoy Mustafa Mit Deniz Depboylı Erkan Haberal "MEDDE 21-11/2/1959's statement "in addition to "social security institutions" in Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 7201 has been added following the declaration of "vacular institutes of higher education." Does the commission agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0321par0091	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0318par0092	Ankara MP Mustafa Mit will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mit.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0322par0095	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the MHP Group on the proposal given by the National Movement Party Group on Article 21 of the Law and Law Acts to change the State of the Union and its duties. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we're making arrangements for a very important issue, such as national education. The General Assembly has made very important statements on national education. A consensus is emerging on the importance of national education and its situation. However, despite these findings, despite opinions, there are also errors in the application. The 76-point bill on such an important matter has been raised to 104 articles in subcommittee talks. A bill on national education that we all express is important in three days, in a total of 15 hours and 15 minutes, and most of the items that should be discussed seriously in the subcommittee have been left to the top commission. As 104 articles, the bill to the National Commission on Education, Culture, Youth and Sports was finalised as 83 articles, except for the application and executive clauses, which discussed 19 hours and 37 minutes in two days. Some of the above Commission works have been removed, some have been changed, and many new clauses have been added to the Commission and have passed through the General Assembly. Dear MPs, an arrangement for national education, which we consider the most important problem, should be considered, discussed, debated, impact analysis, and then adopted into a bill. It's obvious that's not how it's done. So much change between the bill brought in and the bill brought in by the General Assembly is problematic in terms of seriousness and sincerity. The problems of national education are crucial to our future. In this way, national education is undoubtedly filled by groups we do not desire, and the results were seen on July 15th. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to present to your committee some of the objectionable parts of the bill brought in regarding the teachers. Contracted teaching is requested to be reinstated after five years of recess. While graduates from education schools are waiting for an appointment because they have not been identified within the scope of a plan, it is unacceptable to teach contracts while schools wait for teachers. It's wrong to think of teaching as an ordinary profession. The Ministry is called the Ministry of Education. We can't condemn teachers to contracts and oral exams that we hand over our children to train children. Teachers will receive a verbal test, even if they get a high score from KPSS, and they will be given a contract after three years; they will be put on staff by looking at demands; they will serve two more years in the province where they have been appointed, so that after they have completed five years, they will have the right to ask for a transfer. Both contracting and verbal testing will not solve the problems of national education. The anxious teacher will not be able to receive the desired efficiency. Dear lawmakers, the 21st Amendment to Article 7201, Article 1 of the Declaration Act, and all notifications shall be made by PTT or officer under the provisions of Law No. 7201, including the electronic environment of the foundation's higher education institutions. Although I have found the amendment to the Law on Declaration 7201 to be in place, I say that the bill must be changed in accordance with our views above, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0323par0102	Thank you, Mr. Mit. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the National Ministry of Education, which is listed in the General Assembly of the Union in 405 rows, shall be changed to higher education institutions, which are run as autonomous by a foundation. Murat Amir (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0324par0111	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0323par0112	Ankara MP Levent Gök will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0325par0114	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, Mr. Secretary, we're going through major debates, but I'm really having trouble understanding the confusion of the ruling party. What do you think the European Union is, what kind of project is it? Do you think the European Union is collapsing, my dear friends? It's collapsing, isn't it? Friends, all AKP MPs say that the European Union is collapsing. Everyone has been talking about this for days. Our AKP MP friends claim there will be no success from the European Union.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0326par0117	We didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0325par0118	On the contrary, they are confused about whether the European Union is a project that brings peace and prosperity to the world.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0327par0119	It's mixed in itself, Mayor. So is Italy.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0325par0120	You haven't said anything about the European Union since the day before yesterday. You ignore the decisions of the European Union, the decisions of the European Parliament, you have no gratitude for it.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0327par0121	It's not binding, President, it's not binding.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0325par0122	The European Union is falling apart anyway, so what if you get into it? There's a Shanghai organization, so let's make our way there. You don't know what's going to happen in Shanghai. If the European Union excludes you from the negotiations, you don't know what's going to happen to you. There's a lot of confusion. This huge confusion affects the economy in the country, affects tourism, raises dollars.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0327par0123	What does Merkel say, Mr. President? Listen to Merkel. Look what Merkel says.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0325par0124	My dear friends, today in Ankara's most famous shopping malls, very famous companies have been unable to pay rent for four or five months, four or five months. The economy has collapsed.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0327par0125	Aah!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0325par0126	Turkey is stuck in terror, there are fires everywhere, so let Recep Tayyip Erdogan be president, that's all the trouble. When Recep Tayyip Erdogan becomes president, the dollar will drop, the companies in the malls will pay their rent... - God made me say it. You think my economy's gonna come alive? You think terror will end? Aren't you using any kind of authority right now? What's holding your hand? Nothing. If there's any, it's the presidency. What's it gonna be? I'm going to make a decision, just like in the State of Emergency, no one will control it, no one will go through it; a state of mind like North Korea. Now, my dear friends, this painting is not a good painting. Look, this confusion of yours, your mental world, must be severely shaken. On the one hand, you can't fight Laila, on the other hand, on the other hand, the PKK, on the other hand, ISIS, on the other hand, with this head. We stood with you under the bombs on July 15th, and together we fight with the PKK, we fight with ISIS.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0328par0131	You can't!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0329par0132	With this tongue?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0325par0133	As long as it's the right way, the right way, the right way. We need common sense, we want to hear that common sense. If that common sense doesn't improve, we're about to hit the wall fast. By God, my dear friends... these AKP MPs have been giving the ruling party to the European Union, the European Parliament for a few days, and they say, "Who are you?" The President says, "Who are you?" Who are you? How can I wear you?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0330par0135	Well said.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0331par0136	Yeah, those people in the European Parliament can't be chosen in their own country, they send them there so they can't be chosen in their own district, Mr. President. They can't be chosen in their territory, so they send them there to keep him unemployed.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0332par0137	Osman, listen to me for a second. Look, listen, he's got something to say, listen.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0333par0138	...today, at last, a sound of common sense came out of the ruling party with confusion, sound of common sense. Now, let me tell you about that voice and what he said so you can understand how confused your minds are.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0331par0139	The people in the European Parliament can't be elected in their territory, they can't be elected in their territory, so they send them for them.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0333par0140	Today, Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek has made an assessment of all the conversations you've had here in days, all the talks the President has made. Mehmet Simsek says today that the European Union does not collapse. My dear friends, your Deputy Prime Minister, says so.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0334par0141	Yes, he did.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0333par0142	On the contrary, it's a great success story. About 510 million people live in peace and prosperity, and the European Union does not collapse, he says.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0335par0143	Why did the Brits leave, Mayor? Yeah, there might be an English game there.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0333par0144	Now, my dear friends, I always ask: which AKP? Which AKP? Look, there's a voice of common sense here, and I think you should evolve in that direction. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0336par0147	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of the terms of the provision of the Article 21 of the 405, which is in question. Çağlar Demirel (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0337par0156	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0336par0157	Diyarbakır MP Imam Taşçıer on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Stonesman.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0338par0160	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been declared the International Diary Day of February 21st, with a decision made by UNESCO on November 17, 1999. Many languages are used as official education languages in the 194 countries of the United Nations. In India, for example, there are more than 20 local languages that are accepted, and the main part of the region where these languages are spoken is the right to education in the native language. In Turkey, the right to education in the main language is also prohibited according to Article 42 of the Constitution. In the Republic of Turkey, where more than 20 million Kurds live, their right to education in the native language appears to be blocked. Dear friends, the Ferzad Villiger School, which has been teaching Kurdish in the main language for three years, has been closed again in its third year by the government. He was being lectured by 18 teachers who received training formations. Without any cash from the state, the costs of education were covered by parents. While such schools should be encouraged by the state, they should even open schools that officially teach like this, Ferzad Villiger, the Kurdish main language school has been shut down. Although it is known that people with multiple ethnic origins live in Turkey, education and teaching in the main language is only made in Turkish, which is guaranteed by the 1982 Constitution of coups. Mr. President, even though it is well known that assimilation is a crime of humanity, you must immediately give up this policy and take concrete steps, if you do not want your name to be written in black letters, in line with the inconsistencies in the Kurdish language that a significant part of people in your own country speak, blocking the right to education in the main language in the cities of Kurdistan. In this regard, I'd like to address the following questions to the government: 1) How many different languages are spoken in the Republic of Turkey? Where are the population statistics and areas where these ethnities live? 2) Is there any study of the right to education in the main language that our government has done? If so, what are you? 3) In Germany, in 2008, in İstanbul, in 2010, as regards talks made by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, are citizens living in Turkey, whose native language differing from Turkish, being assimilated due to Articles 3/2 of the Constitution of the coup, Article 42? 4) Is the Prime Minister of today's Prime Minister committing a human crime because his citizens of different ethnic origins living in the President's country are not educated in the native language? 5) Is it the official policy of the state that citizens whose native language is different from Turkish are not educated in their native language? If not, why is this being prevented from making legal arrangements? 6) How many teachers were taken to teach the elective course of living languages and dialects? What criteria have been taken into account in the appointment of these teachers? 7) How many students do we have who choose to choose living languages and dialects? 8) Since there are no teachers to teach, how many students have to take different electives? Yes, dear friends, although you do not recognize the right to education in a native language, a key part of the life of a society, your attempt to block its way has often been raised recently. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It aims to shut down schools that teach the main language and remove Kurdish signs written in municipalities, assimilating Kurds. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0339par0178	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 21 is accepted. There are three motions on the 22nd article, two of which are the same property, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the Law, which is included in Article 22 of Law Bill 405, shall be changed in the form of the terms in which it is laid down. Spiritual Ersoy Erhan Master Erkan Haberal Fahrettin Oğuz Tor of the Sea Depboy From now on, the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of Article 22 of the Law Bill be removed from the draft text of Article 22 of the National Education Ministry, which is held in the General Assembly of the ÜMMM, with a decree on the Agency and its duties by the Law and by the Law. Mustafa Ali Balbay Gaye Bezeler Mehmet Göker Nihat Green Vecdi Gündüz Ceyhun İrgil Mahmut Tanal Murat Minister Ahmet Akin Tour Star Biçer Omar Fethi Gürer Signed by the same motion: Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Mehmet Ali Aslan İbrahim Ayhan Ziya Pir Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0340par0207	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0339par0208	Diyarbakır MP Ziya Pir will speak on the first motion of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Pir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0341par0211	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, we agree with Mr. Mehmet Simsek, of course to our Minister; we think the EU is not failing; rather, it's a great success story. About 510 million people live in peace and prosperity. Hopefully, Turkey will come back from its mistakes and the negotiations won't be frozen, the full membership negotiations will be over as soon as possible and we'll be a full member of the European Union. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have a centralized structure in Turkey, education management and organisation. The education system is not open and transparent because it is governed by a single centre that sets policy under the influence and pressure of political power. There is no account for the loss of rights, inequality and injustice caused by wrong and wrong educational policies in short, medium, and long term. Unfortunately, independent and autonomous structures that can control the education system without any influence are not available in Turkey. The central structure in education, a whole, education, management and control mechanism, is shaped by political power, not by the principle of the superior benefit of society and children. The most concrete form of this situation is unfortunately happening during the AKP ruling period. In many modern and democratic countries, the education system has been organised to be least affected by the influence of political power, while decisions and powers are concentrated locally. There are independent and autonomous structures controlling the education system. The decentralisation of education management prevents the ideology of groups in power from controlling education, preventing the exclusion of others; it allows different ethnic and religious identities to protect and develop language through education; reduces classal, regional inequality in education. Now, about that, a moment ago, my friend, referred to a speech by the Undersecretary. I don't have the speech text, but as it appears in the newspaper, in the press... listen well here, my dear friends, says that giving too much information to our children is a human rights violation. We will reduce our curriculum, our schedules, to content. • Yes, if you teach children for ten to fifteen hours, of course, it is a violation of human rights, but never to give them too much information. What I take from this is that if we don't give our children too much information -- I mean the government -- there's a certain part of us that is obeying us right now, if we deprive our children of education, general culture, knowledge, they can obey us in the future. This is our first outlet. Secondly, we will reduce the number of classes per week. My friend has just asked me, is this in line with your explanation, full-time education, or not? He does, but considering the first point of origin, that's his natural consequence, of course. Our third exit point is values training. As in July 15, we have references, such as religion, ethnic identity, political identity, which can hold this geography together. Now, what reference are you going to hold our religion and political identity together with? You'll probably explain that, too. ▪ These values need to be shared with our children. That's the third contribution we've made to the curriculum. You'll certainly enlighten us in these matters, Mr. Secretary. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0342par0220	Thank you, Mr. Pir. There was another motion of the same nature. It was Vecdi Gündoğ who was also going to speak on that motion. Here you go, Mr. Gündüz.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0343par0225	Mr. President, members of the law, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 22 of the bill. A 14-year period and six ministers in 14-year period. The application of the National Ministry of Education, where the most ministers have served, or, in fact, failed, and the ministers have been replaced, has now driven the students, guardians, teachers, and all working families. The model that each minister has tried to implement has been bankrupted by the minister's departure, our damaged student, our guardian, our teacher, and the future of this country. In primary school and in high school, test systems have been changed along with every minister, the system has been turned into a sabbatical, our future, our young, our children have been put into a dark tunnel. They now have to question what they did, or rather what they couldn't do, that would contribute to a quality increase in the educational system 14 years later today. The AKP, which led the country's future to the dark path, will answer for the education system the day after tomorrow, by creating a system that is not satisfied by all those within the system, from its instructor to its minister to its guardian. Failure and unplanned practices have weakened quality and quantity in public schools, and puzzle practices have led our students back both academically and behaviorally, unfortunately. Those who lead education by heeding modern and scientific data have not even been able to train and teach. Fourteen years ago, the number of unappointed teachers, approximately 120,000, reached 400,000 figures due to faulty policies. With each passing year, the number of unemployed teachers they brought to despair grew exponentially. The five ministers were old and sought to achieve their ideals as a result of the education model of the AKP (AKP), whose owner was still unknown, and more individualizations began instead of social and cultural problems, leaving social and cultural life, from the year he began elementary school to college. Congressmans, students have become unhappy, students have become desperate, separated from society and family, individualized, trying to live in their own world. Unemployable, unemployed, unassigned teachers and teachers have developed an unhappy educational community with future concerns. While parents struggle with economic difficulties, the budget for education continues to increase day by day, but it continues to carry despair and anxiety. The university's funding for science and research has declined every day, and scientific autonomy has been avoided. Hundreds of thousands of dwellings, highways, the power to build bridges have been unable to explain to our students why our university students still do not want to solve the problem of their life-threatening housing. The academic who trains educators, teaches them how to teach them how to teach them, has become almost afraid to do science freely, is asked to be misled by scientists who are concerned about the future by desensitizing society's reality. Building bridges, combining throats, building roads unfortunately did not contribute to the educational system and scientific studies, and did not support the liberation and production of scientists. It must not be forgotten that in the modern world, the most national wealth of societies is measured by the contribution to the production of scientific values, democratic and cultural wealth. Our proposal: the establishment of a liberal educational system, free from dogma, based on scientific foundations, on the universal values of the modern world, on the path set by the schoolmaster Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0344par0234	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the Law, which is included in Article 22 of Law Bill 405, shall be changed in the form of the terms in which it is laid down. Spiritual Ersoy (Osmania) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0345par0243	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0344par0244	The Ottoman MP Ruhi Ersoy has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0346par0247	Dear friends, July 15th has been an expensive history lesson about how a nationally unconscious, unfaithful weapon can shoot its own owner. It's a national light, it lights up the house, and it brings out all the scorpions that have fallen into hidden corners, and prevents those who work in the dark from looking at it. Dear lawmakers, we're talking financial, national education. I remember the late Halil Inalcık Hoxha, who was considered to be one of the greatest Turkish historians of education, maarif, tedrisat, science, knowledge, wisdom, and knowledge. They ask him a question in a seminar in Ankara: "Why did the Ottomans live so long, if possible, with just one sentence, in a very short sentence?" When they say, "Can you answer us?" Look, in terms of science and knowledge, the community of education is responsible for the academic community of education, the academic community, intellectually speaking, the universities, all the elements of my knowledge, not the Minister today, but the bureaucrats around it, not symbolically, as the truth. But, what are we doing? We're discussing the issues, and we still can't get to the point. What's the essence? How do we do the curriculum that we just talked about? With Project FATHIH, we've turned big names into technology and digital dumps, we've reinvented that the best education is the blackboard, but our billion dollars, billions of dollars, we've run out. When we look at our system, we haven't been able to put the concepts back together for 13 or 14 years. We called him a department inspector, we called him a master inspector, we called him a master inspector, we call him a minister's financial inspector. When we land in the country, we call them the first-school inspectors, the education inspector, the chief inspector, the chief inspector, I can't say their names. Okays, SBS, TEOG, do any of us know what system the college exams are in? No. We'll say, we're in position under the circumstances. It's an eclectic structure, so what do we do? And I agree. We have an army of education over the population of 190 countries. And that's the need to be big, but if we're big, we'll think big, but the size that doesn't fill in doesn't mean anything either, guys. Now, we're surrounded from all four sides, fighting a national battle. We believe in it from the bottom of our hearts. As the National Movement Party, we are on the side of national policies to deal with this until the end, under the leadership of his leader, the State Gardener. We, along with the fight against terrorism, terrorists, national interests, are at the end of the good work done in the national educational program, and we say, in such a systematic way, we don't know if the six ministers, the seven ministers, are going to continue to change a different subject -- this is an expression of instability in a process where so many names can't be conceptualized, let's face it. Let's sit down, put our hat in front of us, let's see how Halil Inalcik Hoxha is able to grow up with knowledge and knowledge that he's expressed, and in the attempt of July 15th, let's get the children out of front of the four walls of what can be done by those who have access to the national consciousness and the great Turkish nation. Let's discuss a holistic discussion of a programme that will teach them history consciousness, Turkish consciousness, Islamic morality, and virtue, and think about them. And in the area where we are tired and rule, let's build, build, build concepts, bring the great Turkish nation together to the tomorrows. We, the National Movement Party, are on the sidelines of this. In these days, when decisions have been made to determine the fate of the country, I say that the nationalist, nationalist, representative of the basic principles of the ulterior movement, Mr. State Gardener, is prepared to give these supports to the full end, as well as to the individual's behavior and behavior. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0347par0254	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 23 of the same nature, which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of Article 23 of the Constitutional Code of Law shall be removed from the draft by the State Department of National Education, which shall be held in the General Assembly of the Turkish Parliament, in accordance with the provisions of the Law and Law. Mustafa Ali Balbay Gaye Beseler Ceyhun İrgil Mehmet Göker Nihat Green Vecdi Gündoğdu Mahmut Tanal Ahmet Akin Murat Minister Tur Yıldız Bicer Okan Gaytancıoğlu Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Mehmet Ali Aslan İbrahim Ayhan Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Desire Virtue Fahrettin Oğuz Tor of Deniz Depboy Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0348par0281	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0347par0282	Heromarash MP Fahrettin Oğuz Tor who wanted to speak on the first motion of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0349par0285	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Ministry of Education, number 405, to the State of the Law and to the Constitution of the Law, and to the amendment of certain Laws and Laws on Article 23 of the Law Bill. I salute the General Assembly. The bill replaces national education inspectors as ministry financial inspectors. As a result, the special service compensation board, the supplemental indicator table, the office's compensation board are being processed as the national education inspectors (e.g.,.......................................................................................... The change is all about the drafting of the assigned staff. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to briefly discuss the duties and rights of the inspectors as it comes out of the inspectors. The special service compensation was first given to the inspectors, as the inspectors were in office, for which they were given a continuous day-to-day, permanent daily removal, first replaced by special service compensation, and given to inspectors. Over time, private service compensation has been paid to everyone, but the charm of the profession has waned. Now, while many expert medical examiners have previously served as inspectors at a review board that I work for, over time, they have stopped being attractive to self-restraints and for other reasons, and the committee has been without technical inspectors. Dear lawmakers, of course, an inspector's profession is a difficult profession. He's always doing bad things, he's no good to anyone. If one of the parties in the investigations and investigations is right, the other one is right, and the other one is right, someone else is against the complainant or the complainant. The managers don't like it, they've got tours, they've got housing problems, they've got road problems. In a sense, the chiefs are a place of refuge, a place of business, an accident, a night, a day, an inspector's office, a place of terror, an inspector's office. Dear lawmakers, of course, there have been some serious setbacks in the rights of inspectors over time. For example, 3600 additional indicators are stable, which is not the right approach. There are similar injustices in the compensation of the office, with less severance from the authorities than it oversees. For example, the deputy director's severance indicator is 3,000, the county manager's severance indicator is 3,000, the head of the tax office, the vice president of the tax audit board, the deputy minister's deputy minister's deputy chief of the department is 3,000, but the inspector's severance indicator remains at 2,000. The same is true in special service compensation. So when we put it out there, we took the job of inspectors out of appeal. Dear lawmakers, the net wage determines the person's location in the bureaucracy hierarchy. Over time, the strong have gained additional opportunities by increasing special service compensation, additional indicators, office compensations, but inspectors have always gone back from their rights. As a result, the request for duty has been reduced. Given the risks of this mission, given the difficulty, it's incompatible with justice and justice that inspectors always go back on their rights. Today, the biggest problem of the economy is off the books. 1/3 of the economy is unregistered. In women, it is close to 50%. In the present day, when unemployment has peaked at 11.3 per cent, it is the inspectors and auditors who will fight off the record. If you neglect the inspectors, the auditors -- and you always have -- you will not be able to correct the economy, you will never be able to remove it; you will never be able to fight corruption or theft, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0350par0293	Thank you. Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan is asking for a word on the other proposal of the same nature. Mr. Ayhan, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0351par0297	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, I salute you all. Of course, the subject of education is not only important for us people sitting there, for the current structure and composition here. Education is a very important phenomenon for all communities, for all peoples, throughout the history of mankind, a very important habitat. The field of education is directly proportional and directly related to how a society lives, how a people lives. If you are living with a philosophy of life based on tolerance, equality, solidarity in your social life, your education and training model will undoubtedly be in a framework that can match your philosophy of life. When we return to the reality of Turkey, especially when we look at the content of the Ministry of National Education and the existing structure of national education, unfortunately the model, the system, the system, is developing in a framework that does not conform to life standards in Turkey, and policies in education are not carried out in a plurality, diversity, equality, tolerance. What is the dilemma of education, these shortcomings? For example, in a geography of nearly 20 million Kurdish people, we see that the Ministry of Education still does not teach in the native language. As far as the ethnic structure of many social groups is concerned, our education system in a reality of Turkey, where it is different as a belief structure, is unfortunately unable to perform itself with a model that could match that reality. In education, sexism, ethnic discrimination in education, religious discrimination in education, religious differences are still trying to conduct themselves in a single, status quo framework as much as possible, as much as possible. Of course, when I say that, I don't want to say it in a wholesale sense, in a total denial. There is no doubt that there are also some differences in society, including the pluralistic aspects of education. But when we look at it as a whole, it's possible to say that there are very serious problems in our educational system, very serious problems. So as long as we don't democratize our education system, we can't go through the difficult political process that we're going through right now unless we're based on the right liberal ideas, the liberal tendencies. Right now, if we are facing a serious crisis in Turkey -- political, social, economic, and so forth -- the main reason for this is the errors in the educational system, antidemocratic practices in the educational system. Einstein has a very beautiful saying. Einstein says you can't solve problems with the consciousness that creates problems. If you want to solve problems, you need to perform the transformation and change of consciousness and have an educational policy in the field of education through this transformation of consciousness in this framework. Therefore, we must immediately implement a system of education in Turkey, which can correspond to Turkey's pluralistic identity, pluralistic structure. For him, we need to have an approach that could lead to all kinds of differences with democratic wealth, without becoming obsessed with such obsessions as, Kurdt,,, Kurdistan,,, and dogmatical reflexes. We need to immediately democratize our education system in this framework. With this feeling and thought, I salute you again.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0352par0306	Thank you. Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu wants a word on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0353par0310	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 23 of the Law Bill 405. Article 23 contains compensations for the Ministry inspectors and organises them. I'd like to remind you of the people you've forgotten to pay compensation for, the ones you've been unlawfully treating, the ones you've cut their compensation for. That's 1,060 people. 1.060-strong individual-related training specialists. These educators, who served as district national training director until March 14, 2014, are unfortunately suspended after this date under the title of the chief education expert. So you stop taking advantage of qualified employees, you don't take advantage of them, you throw them away, you don't even give them a job. We already know you're breaking the law, but they're suing, they're winning cases, you don't even respect the consequences of these cases; they're allies. I'm asking, where's Liyat? On July 13, 2015, the Constitutional Court cancels the training expertise staff, but you do not comply with the decision. It's still illegal. Law, justice, conscience, and the Constitutional Court find it contrary to the Constitutional Court, canceling this decision. I mean, why don't you return those who lost their rights to duty? That's why I'm here asking you. There is no question that insisting on unlawful conduct would violate the rule of law and the rule of law and the rule of law. In short, you should reassign these experts who have worked in training -- who you have previously served as the district national training director -- who have stood on these missions for many years -- who you have appointed as the deputy chief of il national education -- not to mention the training volunteers. Besides, you only froze the salaries of these executives. Everyone's salary is up, their salaries aren't up, you cut their funding. I want it to be over with the lawless. The merit system is extremely important. Look, we get a lot of calls, a lot of citizens are looking for us, and they say there's a union called ACTIFSEN. Entering this union was necessary for my doctorate. They said you had to get into this union to do it for the doctor. I'll tell you another union. If you enter this union, you become a manager, you become an assistant manager. Why, then, do you not appoint those who are successful in the exams, who think like you, whether they are my union or my union? Everyone is equal before the Constitution, everyone is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. It's a state that doesn't give everyone a chance to study, but at least those who have succeeded in the exams... don't think of them as my allies, let them think like me. Don't think of them as my allies. Then, at some point, you disagree with the people you think about, and we argue about them all the time here. You haven't even dealt with yourself yet. The Minister has issued a document in his own mouth, but you're not even discussing it amongst yourselves, you're attacking the Republican People's Party. You're taking the easy way out. Why don't you take care of the merits in every field? Who's the doctor, who's the judge? I'll tell you, it's very simple: whoever is successful in exams. Who's first? Whoever runs best at 100 meters, whoever runs the fastest. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit06spe0354par0321	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0354par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 405. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on the 24th article, which are of the same nature, that I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 24 of Article 24 of the Constitutional Code of Law shall be removed from the draft by the State Department of National Education, which shall be held in the General Assembly of the Union and in accordance with the State of the Law. Gaye Beceler Ceyhun İrgil Murat Minister Ahmet Akin Mahmut Tanal Tur Yıldız Bicer Nihat Green Mustafa Ali Balbay Vecdi Gündoğdu The signatures of the other motion are: Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran İbrahim Ayhan Mehmet Ali Aslan Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Şanlıurfa Batman Van The signatures of the other motion are: Zühal Topcu Ruhi Ersoy Erkan Haberal Argin Erdem Deniz Depboylı İstanbul Aydın Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0355par0026	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0354par0027	Ankara MP Erkan Haberal has asked for a statement on the first motion of the same nature. Here you are, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0356par0030	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs today are the 99th anniversary of the birth of our late Prime Minister, Alparslan Turkesh, the wise leader of the Turkish world. Basbug is one of the peaks of our state and political lives, and he was telling us: "Be united." The most noble ideas are our ideas, the most legitimate right, the most just case is our case. We are the owners of the world's noble, honorable, and also the cause of an oppressed nation, not to violate its rights. Another case with such noble, high goals cannot be thought of. Our beloved Archbug said that the Turkish nation should establish a 100 per cent domestic and national governance system, which takes into account its national history, its common history, its customs, its grandmothers, its national interests, its modern knowledge and technique. Because each nation's system of governance is based on its own conditions, preferences, and national characteristics. Taking any nation's system for what it is doesn't apply to reality. The intellectuals, capitalists and communist systems work exactly the same way, and they're all copycats. We're just saying that we need a new national doctrine, a system. This doctrine is 9 Light. This national doctrine is an interview that has received everything from the history of the Turkic, which has accepted modern science and technique as its leader. The main source of its power is Islam and Turkicism, eternal love for Turkish people is eternal respect for human dignity. Why is Islam and Turkic the main source? Because this nation is the Muslim Turkish nation. As a Turk, he has thousands of years of glory, honor, and has embraced Islam for a thousand years. In the last 50 or 60 years, the intellectuals have turned against religion, denied Islam, made it look harmful. They say that Europe went forward because it was a Christian; we were left behind because we were Muslims. This is not so. We're behind because we've raised copycat intellectuals who can't grasp the main issues. Congressmans, here is today's educational system, the source of mukallit intellectuals, rootless and unidentified altars. When we're supposed to talk about this problem, when we have to solve the problem, we're talking about the organizational structure of national education, we're playing with the career system of financial inspectors. We're building new positions, new positions with honey. It's wrong, it's against conscience and national morality. The bilateral and conflicting structure of national education is our main problem. On the one hand, a hero, a patriot, a nationalist. On the other hand, how did he raise the traitors and the sold ones? That's the real question and the main question that we need to find the answer to. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0357par0034	Thank you. On another motion of the same nature. Van MP Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0358par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, in my previous speech, I spoke of academic Mr. Nurie Güln Hodja, and as I began to speak, I said that most of you may not recognize Nuriye Hodja. I wasn't wrong, Mr. Mehmet Mush, who responded immediately after my speech, used a statement like this, reading exactly the transcripts: being an academic doesn't mean being a scientist means freedom to promote terrorism. Turkey has terrorist activity, activity, and propaganda. In this regard, they are both crimes under the laws of the state of the Republic of Turkey. Independent courts will make the decision. He made a statement. As a lawyer, of course, I can think of these words in many ways, but let me make these statements clear, most of which are lies.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0357par0041	Congressmans, a little quieter, please.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0358par0042	Now, if you'd have known Mr. Nuriya Gülmen, you'd have heard that he wanted to go back to his job, which had been wrongfully ordered for 15 days. In that square, in the square on Yüksel Street, Nuriye Hoxha voiced his objection, his objection to the government, his welcome. That's what the squares have always been used for. People, anyone who has any objections, from there, will speak to the executives and their objections. Administs who want to hear listen to them and produce solutions. That's what the squares are used for, but the managers who don't have a chance to get out of democracy, they keep the voices down as long as they can, just as they do in this case. You didn't recognize Nuriye Hodja. I'll show you another woman, and you probably don't know that. This woman is Ataman, 37 years old. He was alive until a week ago. He had a house a week ago, but his house was built this way by law enforcement. I wake up every day for the last year, almost every day with an execution, and I go to the crime scene to examine how that execution developed. I did the same thing in this case, and I went to the crime scene. I spoke to the brothers-in-law and brothers-in-law of Ataman. On the night of November 18, 2016, the security forces surrounded the house and started shooting, so he called his in-laws, showed up right away, but they didn't even take him to the scene. They had taken their in-laws into custody, tortured them, and the news reported that a terrorist woman was taken over by a woman in the village of Chalebibak, whereas the gift Ataman was a civilian woman. Doesn't matter, no matter who he is, whether he's a terrorist or not, as you describe him, he doesn't deserve to be brutally burned to death, no one deserves to end up like this. She was a human being, and there's a fact, the Ataman was a civilian, vulnerable woman. He called them many times in there asking them to save themselves. Then we found those hatches around the house, and I'll show you. The notices on those lids are warning signs that there's chemical material, and we found these materials around the house. Eyewitnesses said the cops burned it by pouring stuff around the house. This is, in fact, a war crime, indeed, inhumane.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0359par0047	What Kandil, what happened in Van, what Kandil?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0360par0048	What are you yelling about out there?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0359par0049	Shut up!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0360par0050	You shut up!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0359par0051	You shut up! You shut up! I'm not telling you. Just listen to me! What's with the conditional listening? Look over there, he's giving his I.D.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0361par0052	Yeah, we're listening. Mind your own business. Why are you bothering me? Why do you feel uncomfortable when you say "Kandil"?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0362par0053	Our legal struggle will continue. This is the second case in Ercish, and I want to ask the authorities what happened in Ercish.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0363par0054	For once, tell me about the Turkish soldier and his police. And once again, the terror organization...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0362par0055	I'd like to ask the Home Secretary: What's going on in Ercish?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0364par0057	Congressmans, please, the speaker is speaking on the stand, so let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0362par0058	Because of this second cremation, we asked before, we didn't get an answer, so I ask you from this platform: What's going on in Ercish? What are you trying to cover up? What are you trying to do? Whatever you do, you will not be able to conceal the truth.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0365par0059	What truth? Speak the truth.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0362par0060	The real anbean is in the middle, and our legal struggle will continue, and you will all answer. Everyone who's responsible for this will answer one by one, and we'll keep asking for it.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0365par0061	You trust those who support the terrorist organization?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0366par0062	Those who support terrorism will answer.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0362par0063	It won't stay in the dark, and it won't stay in the dark, just as no truth remains in the dark. The gift will be on the sides of Ataman, and both of us on the sides of you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0366par0065	Here we go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0367par0066	Ankara MP Necati Yilmaz has asked for a statement on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0368par0069	Mr. President, Mr. Court, Congressmans, as a country, we leftists have suffered a lot of blows. Our social and individual memories are filled with the scars of the impacts. So from July 15th to today, we're all very happy to have survived the coup. Congressmans, we rejoice because if the coup hadn't been prevented, the Parliament could have been shut down, disabled as it was on September 12th, the president of the council, who would have taken over the illegal palace, could have suspended the Constitution, which could have ruled the country in general, by decree of the law. The irresponsibility of all his practices in the coup process could have brought verdicts. After that, he could begin a special constitutional study of his needs. Not only that, we could find ourselves in a war, suspend international contracts that we're on, be separated from our 60-year-old dream of joining the European Union, our membership negotiations could be frozen. If the coup hadn't been prevented, the party's presidents and MPs would have been arrested and sent across the country. The mayors could have been replaced by martial law commanders or state-of-the-art governors. Congressmans, we're all very happy that the coup has been prevented. You're saying that we owe it to the President, who, first of all, calls people to resist the coup by telecommunications. Again, you say we owe it to the Prime Minister, who secretly went to Anatolia and organized the resistance against the coup in Kastamon, and you say we owe it to Melih Gökçek, who hid in a slum and resisted the coup. It's not like that. I want you to know that our people, who have suffered more than the blows, have been spared, and we owe them. Congressmans, we're all very happy that the coup has been prevented. However, since the coup has been blocked, what are these practices that repeat the applications of the September 12th junta, we ask more and more every day. Congressmans, I remember September 12th well. At that time 3,854 teachers were suspended, 9,400 officers were discharged. Today, 38,000 teachers, 100,000 officers were discharged; 50,000 people were arrested, 2,600 dorms and schools were closed, hundreds of companies and businesses were seized. We survived the coup, but we're asking what's the difference between the days of the coup. Members of parliament, in those dark days of September 12th, 47 judges and prosecutors were expelled. Today, over 5,000 judges and prosecutors were expelled. I remember well those days, 303 cases were filed for 13 major newspapers, 31 journalists were put in prison; 160 media companies were closed today, 142 journalists were arrested. We survived the coup, but we're asking what's the difference between the days of the coup. Fortunately, when we were all rejoicing that there was no blow, the power saw the blow as a blessing from God. We can see from their apps that they actually have the same range as the pulsers. We've seen it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, For days, representatives of all opposition groups have been talking here, saying that the power, in a sense of madness, has started a lynching campaign and a witch hunt against all parts of society, against all non-profit, non-obligatory opposition. We're seeing what we're going through. The children of September 12, 1980 are giving our people all the results of a coup that has achieved its goal in the process of entering our country. Today, we live with all our citizens, to the bone, to the bone, where a coup that has achieved its purpose and built its dictatorship can inflict all the violence on our country. That's why we said it in the squares, and we're saying it here, we don't call it a coup, we don't call it a dicta, guys. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0369par0081	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0370par0082	Just a moment, Mr. Incescuz. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0371par0086	Mr. President, for the record, I have to tell you. He held the dictator in a sense by impact. That was a very unfortunate conversation. Indeed, at every opportunity, a party and the words of our founding presidents who rely on elections, polls and the will of our nation are so clear and clear that we object to this unfortunate conversation from beginning to end -- especially in the record -- a blessing from God. By the way, our President was killed at the airport that night, following the deployment of two military teams. It's also unfortunate that a nation's elected president took only two words out of his speech at the airport and tweezed...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0370par0087	It's on the record, Mr. Inceöz.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0371par0088	...when they listen to the sequel of that sentence, there's a sequel to the fact that the Turkish Armed Forces should be a pure institution and that the infiltration here should be clean and clean with this coup attempt tonight. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0370par0090	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz. On the 25th article...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0372par0092	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0370par0093	Here you go, Mr. Sky. If you'd like to get into the system, I'll open it from your position.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0372par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I find it difficult to understand that the ruling party MPs would take on any criticism against the President. I mean, of course, everyone has to be President, but our Constitution says that the President's party is cut off from him, so it's not acceptable for the ruling party to be so involved with the President in every criticism, despite such clear Constitutional decree. The president is already able to talk, explain, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0370par0100	Complete.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0373par0101	Don't underestimate the Mukhtars, don't make a mistake! Make no mistake, don't underestimate the chiefs! I'm going to complain to the mayors.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0372par0102	So there are environments where Mr. President can respond in an environment where he's being criticized. Therefore, Mr. President has the right to speak in many different environments of Turkey. If he wants to respond to criticism, he probably will, but we're also having trouble understanding that the ruling party is considering it as a party bond with the President at every opportunity.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0370par0103	Yes, he is the President of the Republic of Turkey, and he is the representative of the state.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0374par0104	Mr. President, one sentence on the record, but I did ask for my place. Of course we'll answer. Our president, the founding president, had ties to the party in the past period. Of course he explained that he would have a side. This is clearly and clearly on the side of the nation. You have to digest that, too.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0375par0107	The will of the people is here, in the House.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0376par0111	There are three motions on the 25th article. I'm going to read these motions separately and process them. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the State Department of National Education, number 405 in the General Assembly of the Union, shall be replaced by "the schools that teach the profession" in Article 25 of the Law and Law Act. Erkan Aydın Ceyhun İrgil Gaye Cullier Selina Doğan Mustafa Ali Balbay Hilmi Maker Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the 25th article of the main law bill (1/711) in the following way. Zühal Topci Desire Virtue Deniz Depboy Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Kamil Aydın The first joke of Article 29 of Law 25 - 1739 has been changed as follows, and the second joke has been dismissed. "S secondary school consists of upper secondary schools and vocational training centres that apply various programmes." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 25 of the Law Bill 405 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran İbrahim Ayhan Mehmet Ali Aslan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. . Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0377par0137	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0376par0138	Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0378par0141	Mr. President, as far as we're concerned, the valued lawmakers have frozen the negotiations of the European Union, and on top of that, everyone has a policy of why the European Union is doing this, and how we should be concerned about how we do it ourselves? While we should be concerned about getting into the European Union, they've become more condescending, more likely to see themselves in a giant mirror, and the last thing we do is to share some of the United Nations data and turn it into blackmail through refugees. According to the United Nations Refugee Organization's June 2015 data, 1,855,255 people are in Turkey -- about 2 million people are now in Turkey -- these are the figures -- and 259,523 people are in AFAD. We have no idea where the remaining 1,646,461 people are, how they live, how they live. This, in fact, we all observe, we know what kind of life it is. Everyone has seen and watched closely that it is a cheap labor force, that women and children have become a means of abuse, and that almost, at times, human trafficking has become human trafficking. It's a pity to see refugees like this in dozens of cities, something we've all witnessed, and most of them are women and children. Today, in order not to ignore this on Women's Day of Violence, this is just a reminder of that, and this is the attitude that the other person in the European Union has made over a little bit more self-assembling and changing their policies, and maybe they'll sit down for a little while, members of Parliament here, in Parliament, warning us about this, so let's review our policies and democratize. Where we're wrong, where we've been wrong, or where we've been missing? In terms of the safety of this country, on the contrary, as usual, self-defense, don't get defensive, immediately read intent, criminalize the other person, without understanding, without listening, in just three or five words, we're in a position to attack in every way. Here, oddly, the relationship of the congregation with Fetullah Smiley, is very clear, even though the Minister has spoken in his own words, a defence is being made immediately, just like this refugee crisis. As a party, we are a party of self-criticism. If we're wrong, we say it, and if we're short, we say it, and we admit we're wrong. But what can we do democratically in the face of this disgrace of democracy? This is not happening when we should be conducting the debate. Today our friends are in prison, this is ignored. We're talking about the refugee crisis, millions of people on the streets, being used as cheap labor force, being abused, this is not seen, but on the contrary, I'm going to read a passage from Mr. President's speech on October 7, 2014: we, as Turkey, have been happy, happy and proud to have you here for about four years. You have left your homes in a state of need, and We have seized you with all your resources. No matter what anyone says, you are not a burden. What does he say when you look at his speech today? I'll say very short: we are the ones who feed 3 million, 3.5 million refugees in this country. You didn't keep your promises. When 50,000 refugees came to the gate, you cried out. What would we do if Turkey opened the border gates? Look, if you go any further, these border doors will be opened, too, if you know that. Now, I'd like to ask you here: is this government an enemy or is it a human trafficker?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0379par0146	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0378par0147	That's the sentence.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0380par0148	You're not even the last person to ask that question.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0381par0149	You wouldn't understand.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0378par0150	If we're really approaching them in human proportions, we shouldn't get into a definition of objectification, such as devaluement.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0381par0151	Why do you ask if you can't understand?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0378par0152	If we're really looking at these in human values, we shouldn't be negotiating these things today.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0382par0153	Did you get the European Union's attorneyship?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0378par0154	Just like you held our friends hostage and made them a bargaining chip.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0382par0155	They're your lawyers, and you're their lawyers?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0378par0156	So we're going to stand here -- no matter what -- to be their voice, to be the voice of the refugees and to be the voice of the oppressed, and we're going to fight it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0383par0159	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the 25th article of the main law bill (1/711) in the following way. Kamil Aydın (Erzurum) and his friends The first joke of Article 29 of Law 25 - 1739 has been changed as follows, and the second joke has been dismissed. "S secondary school consists of upper secondary schools and vocational training centres that apply various programmes." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0384par0169	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0383par0170	Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0385par0173	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all at this hour of the night. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on the 25th article of the Bill, which has come to the agenda in 405 rows of the Ministry of National Education. I salute the High Council. So far, we've been talking about some problems within the Ministry of National Education for a few days. We've tried to express a lot of problems that we have in common, that we agree on, but in this short period, I'd like to take a look at something that's not particularly mentioned. Of course, we put the top denominator at the top of our solution proposals when we were always expressing problems: we said, "Liberty," we said, "Immunity." Here, of course, we don't approve of the change in exam format. In particular, students that we have chosen in the Ministry of National Education for grad school abroad should also have a certain savings at the point of the country's fundamental, spiritual values, especially when it is considered to be based on universal, scientific values, and that they have passed through a good education format. Why are we saying this? Because right now, we have friends in the High Assembly who are actually trying to serve here, floating through this training process as the chosen ones of our country. We've been through the same process together. Why? Because these are our sons that we're going to send, yes, they're going to be internationally academics, and at the point of knowledge, of knowledge, of knowledge, of the world, of science, of art, they're going to take that point inside, and they're going to contribute to the continuum of continuity here. But on the other hand, they're going to be at the point of representing us, and I'm telling you this sincerely, what a foreign educator says is that the students you're sending are also with us. So we're going to weigh them with a very careful, very sensitive scale and send them out with hair. We'll learn from bad examples. We, believe you, on behalf of the state of the Republic of Turkey, have gone abroad on behalf of the Ministry of National Education and expressed all kinds of values other than the values of the country in which it resides abroad, while we have encountered a number of types of students who have not stood up for the will that sent it. We've encountered many students with a problem with their flag, with their nation, with their country, with their purpose, with their republic. What's the comeback? Look, the claim to be a citizen of the world isn't very permanent until you can get your national values into the universal world. Sir, do we have samples? Yeah, there's plenty. It's a very typical example, and I'd like to repeat the example with a website: We have a Saint Sancar. Look, Mr. Minister, last year, we suggested that with regard to St. Bey -- with a lot of budgets, in the name of tourism, what we couldn't do in the name of Turkey, he came out of an isolated corner of Anatolian, he came out of an area, with teeth, nails and values, that in the world's science life, we should be grateful to God, that our precious teacher -- we proposed, we suggested research, that his name could be a university, that it could be connected to the NGO, that it could be a research center of the U.S.S.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.D.E.D.E.D.D.D.D.D. Look, we're having trouble with the European Parliament... and we're really going to sink ourselves in with the St. Hodja format, so we can live here first, symbolizing it so we can clear the way for the new Saint Sancars. When you look at the story of St. Sancar, yes, he has studied abroad, but he is a scientist who has brought the world and Turkey together in an eclectic way -- the universal and the national -- to live in a very comfortable way; I give him respect. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm bringing up our sensitivity on this one. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0386par0184	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0387par0188	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0386par0189	We've got a roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Öz, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Seşum, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Yılmaz, Mr. Green, Mr. Termaz, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Tor, Mr. Depboylu. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to you the motion of Kamil Aydın and his friends, those who agree... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the State Department of National Education, number 405 in the General Assembly of the Union, shall be replaced by "the schools that teach the profession" in Article 25 of the Law and Law Act. Mustafa Ali Balbay (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0388par0205	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0386par0206	İzmir MP Mustafa Ali Balbay will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0389par0209	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, first of all, there's been reports of an explosion in Antwerp for half an hour. We wish the government to provide information on this matter as the Republican People's Party. Friends, the 24th and 25th articles of this law include basic training for apprentice training. I had general information too, but I did some research on what it's like to be an apprentice in developed, industrially developed countries, and it came out that there's a concept called apprentice training, or rather the concept of being an apprentice, friends, in the West, that doesn't exist anymore. But we're still putting that concept into the education system in Turkey. In the commission, we told the ruling party MPs, the president that adding the concept of apprentice to basic education would reduce your education to 12 years in eight years, but they rejected it, saying, "There is a need for an apprentice." So, in a sense, the teaching system became a prisoner of education. In this coming period... it's going to be practically legal for our teenage girls, our girls, who are supposed to go to school, to work under the stairs, to work in the children's automotive sector. Let's make the situation legal. Sadly, it has become a habit of power. Friends, the government, or rather the AKP, has made a final addition to the arrangement of the financial inspectors, and unfortunately, you're raping this profession. There's a more advanced environment in our assessment. Now that his noble profession has been slaughtered, it's no longer a career. The Maarif Inspectorate is being completely massacred. With your suggestion -- I don't know if you're aware -- even an ordinary branch manager in national education could be an honorary inspector. The person who works anywhere in this medical school may also be a doctor. Believe me, it's that bad. I urge the government to reconsider. Friends, further parts of this national education law, like this puzzle in Apprentice Training, predict the restoration of many things from the university's exam system to test safety. According to mathematical statistics, all test questions of the last decade have been stolen and stolen by the CHP organization until 2014. On top of everything else, even the inequality of millions of people, millions of young people, working day and night, going to classrooms, going through these tests, taking those stolen test questions... I don't know, I think you've had enough of this plague. Because here are the most serious consequences of this puzzle system within the national educational system. So, what's the bottom line here, guys? According to a worldwide study, a student who has completed basic education in the United States learns 40,000 words, Germany learns 45,000 words, England learns 50,000 words, Saudi Arabia has 13,000 friends, Turkey has 8,000. Because of the constant change of the education system, the constant repetitiveness of basic lessons, and this distortion within the system, many of the schools in our birth and west come out with a much lower vocabulary. Do you know how it gets in our rows, fellas? According to a study by the University of Hacettepe, under the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we speak 500 words. As a continuation of this educational system, I'm afraid we're having trouble explaining our problems. Congressmans, our last request from the government is that we hope that these teachers, the ones who were suspended, will meet their students again from the following days. Indeed, this is similar to the fact that Nasrettin Hoxha lost his donkey and found it, but for the remaining 8,000 teachers, we expect a result as soon as possible, and that Turkey will enter the next year, 2017, at least with a measure of relief. Otherwise, in Turkey, unfortunately, with the safety of lives and property -- two more basic securitys -- friends -- there's a legal security issue and test security problem. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0390par0219	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are four motions on the 26th article, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the National Ministry of Education, which is listed in the General Assembly of the Union in 405 rows, be removed from the text of the "workers in public institutions for at least ten years" under Article 26 of the Law and Law Act. Gaye Beseler Ahmet Akin Mehmet Göker Nihat Green Vecdi Gündüz Mahmut Tanal Murat Minister Ceyhun İrgil Tur Yıldız Birçer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 26 of the main Law Bill (1/711) in the following way. Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy MADDE 26- 4/11/1981, sub-committee number (1) of Article 8 (b) of Article 2547 of Higher Education Law, "10 professor members to be recommended by the Higher Education Board," the phrase "six years" in the first sentence of his fourth joke has been changed into "three years" and the first sentence of his fifth joke has been removed from effect. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 26 of Law Bill 405, which is being discussed in the following way. Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Mehmet Ali Aslan İbrahim Ayhan "MEDDE 26- 4/11/1981" was the number-one subcommittee of Article 8 (b) of Article 2547 of Higher Education Law (1) "15 members selected by the University Senate by the Council of Higher Education," the first sentence of the fourth joke "six years" was changed into "three years," and the first sentence of the fifth joke was removed from force." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that Article 26 of Law Bill 405 be removed from the text of matter. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Ilyas Şeker Mujahit Durmuoğlu Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0391par0256	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0390par0257	I'm reading the reason: A amendment has been made to Article 4/11/1981 of Article 4/47 and Article 8 of Higher Education Law 2547 and has been published in the official newspaper 29/10/2016 and 29872. I submit to your votes the motion of Mustafa Elitaş and his friends, which I have read his motive for: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Since Article 26 has been removed from the text in accordance with the agreed motion, I am removing the other motions from the process. It wasn't voted off the table, guys. There are three motions on the 27th article, which are of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 27 of Article 27 of the Law Bill be removed from the draft text of Article 27 of the National Education Ministry, which is discussed in the General Assembly of the Turkish Parliament, by the State of the Union and by the State of the Law and by the Law. Gaye Beseler Vecdi Gündüz Mahmut Tanal Murat Minister Ahmet Akin Nihat Yeşil Tur Yıldız Bicer Mehmet Göker Şenal Sarıhan The signatures of the other motion are: Ages Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayhan Bilgen Mehmet Ali Aslan İbrahim Ayhan Ayşe Acar Başaran The signatures of the other motion are: Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Desire Erdem Mevlüt Karakaya Deniz Depboylu Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0392par0285	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0390par0286	Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya has asked for a statement on the first motion of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0393par0289	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the proposed motion. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is living with serious problems. The day goes by so we don't run into any new problems. Terror has become an important issue in itself. Turkey, unfortunately, is in the grip of a large, blood-soaked, international-sized terrorist organization. We just got word from Gaziantep that there's been an explosion. I guess the details will come out. I hope there's no loss of life. The other day, in Adana, unfortunately, there was an explosion that injured 33 of our citizens, who cost the lives of two of our countrymen. These are explosions aimed at our national unity, our national integrity, our brotherhood, and our peace of mind, attacks aimed at us. It's not about going to the scene; it's about keeping those explosions from happening there. If you're wondering about something, find out. As the National Movement Party, we have stated that we are behind the government and our security forces in the fight, especially in the intervention of terrorism, and we do so on every platform. Dear lawmakers, of course, the second important issue is economics. Recently, we began to see the effects of foreign currency especially in all aspects of society. So here we're going to be able to evaluate all of this in this very short period of time, and it may not be possible to talk about all of this, but especially when we think about the end of the year coming up, I want to say that the increases in currency rates are at a level where we'll never underestimate the impact on the real sector. In 2002, the real sector's obligation over foreign currency was at 32 billion levels, while the first half of 2016, the obligation reached 309 billion levels. So, again, when we take into account the increases in recent currency courses, especially when we take into account the net position and look at the real sector, the financials of the private company, and the damage to the cambio by the end of the year, we see that a significant burden is coming. Today, the currency obligations of companies, the real sector, are about 200 billion dollars higher than the currency assets. So, the private sector, the real sector, is carrying a $200 billion net exchange position. The recent exchange rate increases reflect on the financial tables and the financials at the end of this year, about 100 billion, 100 quadrillion with the old money. You can now calculate the effects of this on taxes, on cost and input. For what it's worth, Turkey is facing very serious problems. In the coming days, we will face economic problems. Important, serious tribulations await Turkey, or us. What are we doing here? What we're trying to do around here, especially as the opposition, is that our demands and demands at the point of righting the wrongs of the law are not considered at all. I salute your high council once again.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0394par0297	Thank you. Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen will speak on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0395par0301	Mr. President, I think the pride of Turkish universities is that the academics who fled from Hitler Germany came to the universities of Turkey, and the shame is that today hundreds of thousands of academics are expelled from the universities due to the social media message they shared, because of the meeting they attended, or because there is no justification, just a assumption, a guess, from the universities. Of course, there's an institutional table beyond this painting, which is the decision that the rectors can't be elected by the university staff and the appointment of the rector is left to the President. This is actually a declaration, a declaration that Turkey doesn't trust its own universities, and if a state, a government, doesn't trust its own universities, the international reputation of those universities, and the reputation of those universities will not be beyond that. Dear MPs have made a number of statements about the message shared by the CHP deputy chief of the group here, and I will not say anything over the social media, but a few days ago, I do not want another minister's extraordinary state of mind, brother. The words of the CHP group's deputy had been reflected in the press again. I don't want his extraordinary state either. When someone hangs his statement in front of the Human Rights Memorial on Yüksel Street, the gas gets bored, taken into custody, or when they try to make a press statement in front of the university, they do other procedures with these statements, and the student probably can't take the exam, and he's getting erased from school. Gandhi has a beautiful saying, in fact, that during this period of time when violence surrounds and surrounds, I think he has a good message for all of us: it's easy to spread hatred, but it's hard to spread love, it's instant to have no conscience, but it's infinite to have a heart. Dear friends, the political atmosphere we're in may look a lot like September 12th, maybe socially, but in terms of its political character, it looks a lot like May 27th. We wish the outcome would not come to that, but before May 27th, there are dozens of books written about how the ruling party treats the opposition, how it treats the universities, how it treats the journalists, and when you read it, it's not legitimate with any political power. The opposite is that after May 27th, the opposition's ruling party was criticised for how it treated the Democratic Party, but it happened once. Who has the guilt, how much responsibility for the majority, how democratic the opposition has been, but it's too late. Turkey was the beginning of the coup tradition as a black mark on the history of democracy as a result of May 27th. Thus, the work of a political institution is, in effect, the most critical point of a country's future. Look, first it goes to foreign agencies, then it goes to Turkish news services. There will probably be some reports of soldiers injured on El Bab Road tomorrow that are currently at foreign agencies that will also be reported to news media in Turkey. Now, at least here we were against it, but the interests of the two parties and the interests of the country require it. The two opposition parties have voted yes to the statement. Now, shouldn't we have a statement about someone getting up here and getting hurt, about where this is going, about who made these attacks, about the new ally's share in this? So this chaos will continue, funerals will come, we'll read about wounded soldiers, but we won't be able to learn anything about what's going on in Syria. Dear friends, this painting reminds me of the painting of the Middle East and Turkey in which many of you are very familiar with a writer who may be friends with some of them -- let me not mention his name here. It says: "If there is blood and tears in a geography, there is Christianism without the Gospel, Judaism without the Torah, and Islam without the Quran without the Torah. " I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0396par0308	Thank you. Ankara MP Şenal Sarıhan has asked for a statement on the latest proposal of the same nature. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0397par0311	Dear friends, I think, when the work gets this far, like our Dear Group President, our voices are very regressed. Fortunately, we don't scream as loud as our standing friend. There's probably not gonna be a lot of guts left.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0398par0312	I'm the one with the training, with the training, Hajji.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0399par0313	He's special-trained. He's part of the cast, the sound crew.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0397par0314	Dear friends, my dear President, dear fellow writers, tonight we have tried to address the problems of national education, the problems of education. This field also opens up a new field of thought for us in the field of education when we are judged together with another problem of tonight, or evaluated together with another phenomenon. 6,004 people have been reinstated from the media, information that has come to us, as my friends have just expressed. You'll remember, in many of our conversations here, we've tried to express this. We said, power is wrong, government forces are wrong. The punishments given in an environment where the claim against people without any investigation has not been made concrete, which has not been made clear to their own faces and has not been given the right to defend themselves will not be legal, even if a person deserves the punishment, and that will eliminate the integrity of the state, the credibility of the law. Today, we see it as a positive event, of course, but we see it as a positive fact that so many of our fellow teachers were returned the very day after 24 percent, but we also find it impossible to repair his injuries. My friends just expressed it again, and the question is, what do we get the truth from? We get our diplomas, education, education. And there's also a situation in which, if we're not qualified for the job we're doing, with everyone getting a college degree, this college degree that they're getting won't improve their education in their field, their professional skills in their field, but we're all learning from the first day to the last day. For example, when you retire as a teacher, you may reach your most useful days. Now that a system has been established, half of which have been returned to the teacher's podiums, half of which have not been returned, and instead, of course, I've expressed it before -- they will develop in the field of profession, but the lack of experience will leave us with a serious problem. We argued together a few days ago so that our children would not be exposed to sexual assault in any way, and our hearts burned. Is it something that we would be pleased to have our children remain ignorant, our children remain uneducated, our children are permanently deprived of education? But when the administration starts abusing its own powers, using its own powers against the law, there will be no useful results from that educational system. Instead of making arrangements in accordance with the decrees, then, it is necessary to move towards legal regulations. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0400par0321	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions of the same nature have not been accepted. Members of parliament, there is a request for an open vote on the 27th article of the bill. Now, I'm going to identify the names of the lawmakers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 27 of the Law Bill 405 be carried out in open voting. Levent Gök? Here. The Ancient Durmez? Here. Ceyhun Irgil? Here. Metin Lütfi Baydar? Here. Okan Gaytancioğlu? Here. Bulent Oz? Here. Vecdi Gündüz? No. Bulent Bektasoglu? Here. Kamil Aydın? Here. Master Erhan? Here. A-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a. Here. Sibel Özdemir? Here. Necati Yilmaz? Here. Nihat Green? Here. Mustafa Tuncer? Here. Senal Sarıhan? Here. Ilhan Cihaner? Here. Mustafa Ali Balbay? Here. Murat Amir? Here. Mehmet Gökdağ? Here. 19 people.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0401par0347	Mr. President, I'm here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0402par0348	Master Erhan is here. Sir, everyone's here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0403par0350	He wasn't here when you called.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0402par0351	How do you read?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0404par0352	Mr. President, it can't be open, it's down, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0402par0353	Mr. President, there are names on the side. Master Erhan, Kamil Aydın...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0405par0354	Point 19. No, no, no, no.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0406par0355	Kamil Beyle didn't read Erhan Ustah.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0402par0356	He didn't read two MPs.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0405par0357	He wasn't here when he was called, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0406par0358	Have a seat, Osman.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0405par0359	It's not okay, it's 19!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0407par0360	Why don't you have a seat, why don't you?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0405par0361	He wasn't there, he was outside.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0407par0362	What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0408par0363	Yeah, they have signatures there, didn't you read them?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0405par0364	No.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0408par0365	Osman, don't shout, let the roll call be made.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0409par0366	Mr. Sky isn't here when he's called, so we can't count it.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0410par0367	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0411par0368	You can't accept it, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0412par0369	Osman, are you the president or will you sit down? Mr. President, why don't you mix it up?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0413par0371	Mr. President, our friends are all here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0414par0372	No, no. Now, when you look at the Civil Charter, these names need to be identified.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0413par0373	Our friend says you're here, okay?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0415par0374	They're here. Who didn't come out?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0416par0375	No, sir, that's not true.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0417par0376	Mr. President, this is unacceptable.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0418par0377	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0416par0378	No, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0418par0379	Congressmans, it's all right...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0419par0380	Mr. President, this is no way to do business under pressure.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0418par0381	No, it's under pressure... wait, I haven't made up my mind yet.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0419par0382	All of our deputies are here, all of them.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0420par0383	There were 19 of them, sir. The transcripts are here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0419par0384	It's all here... for God's sake! What kind of a thing is that? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0420par0385	No!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0419par0386	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0421par0387	Mr. President, who's running for president?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0422par0388	Yeah, who's doing the roll call? Is Osman doing the roll call, or is the Deputy Speaker of Parliament doing the roll call?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0423par0389	Congressmans, I'm going to take a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. All right, bye.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0424par0390	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0423par0391	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if anyone can complete... I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Under the decision taken, an open vote will be held with an electronic voting device, and I'll give you three minutes to vote.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0425par0396	Mr. President, if the MPs don't go in, the open vote is off.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0426par0397	Mr. President, the callers have to go in, sir. They've declared themselves here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0427par0398	No... okay?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0426par0399	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Besides, there are 19 of you here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0428par0400	Now, members of lawmakers, look, an open vote is first started by members who have asked for an open vote of 143.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0427par0402	The vote continues, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0428par0403	I did, okay, the vote goes on. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] I'll say this: At least fifteen of the proposed owners are not present at the General Assembly Hall, or if the missing signature is not accepted or voted by any member of parliament, the motion for an open vote is dropped.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0429par0406	It's over, that's all. They have to.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0430par0407	There's 20 of us here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0428par0408	You'll have to take an open vote or he'll fall.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0430par0409	Sir, no...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0431par0410	That's it, they have to participate.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0428par0411	The Civil Code is here, the Civil Code is here, it becomes a vote.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0430par0412	Mr. President, the other day here...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0428par0413	Look, we've got three minutes, and the clock's ticking. You need to take a vote. If you don't vote...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0432par0415	There's no need to argue. Bravo! The vote falls, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0430par0416	Mr. President, no, no, wrong...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0428par0417	The Civil Code is here. No, even if it's wrong, I'm not getting it wrong now, I'm doing what's right. If those who call for an open vote don't take part in the vote, this business will turn into a vote. It's obvious. [[The gathering of a group of MPs in front of the bench, the noise.]] Wait a second, guys. Clear the front of the bench, clear out. Congressmans, the vote is... [[Noises]] Wait a second... Guys, take your seats.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0433par0424	Mr. President, the other day, look...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0428par0425	Yeah, I don't know about the other day. Whatever the Civil Code says, I do according to the Civil Code, and I do what is right, my brother.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0434par0427	Bravo, Mr. President, bravo!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0433par0428	Mr. President, the open vote...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0428par0429	No, it's the Civil Code. The previous practice is not subject to a clear decree of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0434par0430	Read it, read it, Mr. Levent, read it.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0428par0432	Now, we get the voting results, we compare them. We're going to see if any of the friends who have asked for an open vote have taken part in the vote, and then we're going to make our decision.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0435par0433	Bravo, Mayor, bravo!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit07spe0428par0435	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0428par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 405. The commission and the government are in place. Since it has been determined that the MPs who have submitted the motion for an open vote on the request have not voted, the form of the open vote has now turned into an official vote. According to the vote, Article 27 of the bill has been adopted. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0436par0006	Mr. President, we'd like to open a formal discussion on your position regarding the vote and the outcome of your decision.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0437par0007	Lehte.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0438par0008	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0436par0009	Against you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0439par0010	Against you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0440par0011	Mr. Ramazan Can, Mr. Mustafa Elitaş; Mr. Levent Gök, Mr. Çağlar Demirel. Mr. Elistash in the field, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Wait, I didn't explain my attitude.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0441par0015	You've just made your position clear, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0442par0016	You just explained it, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0440par0017	We've already made our decision on the position, though, that those who call for an open vote must surely participate in the voting process and that if they do not, it will turn into an interim vote.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0442par0018	Your attitude was obvious from the beginning.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0440par0019	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0443par0022	Mr. President, since you've already decided according to the Civil Code, you don't need to explain your position in this matter, the Civil Code clearly states it. As a matter of fact, there was a debate about this in the 23rd term -- which was given to our fellow member of the group by you, by the Council of Parliament -- as a matter of fact, by you. A motion has been made for an open vote on a provision of a draft bill in the 104th Amendment year of the 23rd term. The chairman of the session has determined whether or not 20 of the signatures in the motion are ready. In the absence of one of the signatories in the courtroom, another member of parliament has been allowed to accept it. The vote was adopted as a vote on the fact that one of the signees did not vote on the electronic device. The subject of the transcripts is as follows, as stated by the Speaker of Parliament: my esteemed fellow lawmakers, I now have six compasses. There's 179 friends who hacked into the system. Also, I've just warned you, there are friends who have asked for an open vote and are not voting. So, if they didn't vote, I said that one person -- in the nail, in the parentheses -- one of these 20 MPs -- would go back to voting if they didn't take an open vote. As a matter of fact, yesterday, Mr. Young had objected, if you remember, Mr. Young has objected that the application will return to the vote, and the president has made that decision within the scope of that objection. Now, the clause has been passed as a vote. Look, my dear friends, this is an open vote in accordance with Article 81 of the Civil Code. In Article 81 of the Civil Code, 20 MPs submitted a written motion to the Parliamentary Presidency. It is different from the request of 20 MPs to stand up and make a roll call according to Article 57. The vote is a process to show which MPs voted in which direction. You know, sometimes lawmakers from the ruling party can raise their hand along with the opposition, and our friends from the opposition can raise their hands along with the ruling party. The important thing is that the excess of votes in the same direction makes the decision to accept or reject that direction. In the vote, the clear voting method was set here to determine the clarity of that MP's decision on that issue. As a matter of fact, in order for the open vote to be considered a roll call, in accordance with the demands of 20 MPs, as applied in the Interior Charter 57. This is because the meeting of 184 people, which is mentioned in Article 96 of the Constitution, has been held in terms of reaching the extent of the number of people. As a matter of fact, Article 143 has made it clear and clear, what the president has done is correct. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0444par0026	Thank you. Against my attitude, Mr. Levent Gök. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0445par0030	Mr. President, valuable MPs, first of all, about the nature of the vote that just took place, the right implementation of the House's Institution. If a vote of the same nature is to be held in this parliament for a week, and the following week in a different manner, there will be no way to work in this Parliament. Now, last week's vote on the law, which you all know as the law on sexual abuse, has been called again -- just four or five days ago -- has been called for an open vote, and the House is closed because the number of polls have been held before the open vote has been reached. It's a memo from Mr. Elitaş, which the Department of Law has just read to Mr. President. This subject is a witness to different practices.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0446par0033	I'm reading from the House transcripts.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0447par0034	From the transcripts...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0448par0035	The implementation of parliament is the year of the third legislature in the 23rd term.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0449par0036	Sir, look, I have some practical samples. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are now, here, the open vote is also a roll call. Mr. President, as soon as the motion for a vote is made, he reads the names of those who have asked for an open vote first, and conducts a roll call. The following provisions are subject to a separate condition, since they are either cut in a binder. Thus, after the presence of those 20 people was identified, the burden of those seeking an open vote is over. The next picture is that the open vote turns into an electronic vote, and the number of meetings to be called is 184. Right now, I just got inside information that there's a number 176. What will this painting -- of course, Mr. President -- affect a decision? The number of other substances is unknown because they are made with a vote, and those who agree... Those who didn't... went in the form of a... of an electronic vote, but it's clear who voted what, how many votes were cast. This can result in a form-wise rejection of matter, and it can cripple the law, my dear friends. There must be no mistake, the Court is responsible. We gave our fair warning, we delivered our demands. Mr. President's decision, I hope, will not cause this clause or the entire law to be injured. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0450par0041	Thank you. In your favor, Mr. Ramadan Can. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0451par0045	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I'd like to declare that we're in favor of Mr. President's position. The Civil Code is actually very clear here, so it's clear when you read Article 143, so there's no need to comment here. Once, it takes at least 15 lawmakers' signatures to get an open vote. Did the Republican People's Party perform at least 15 MPs?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0452par0048	20 Ramadan according to 81.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0451par0049	He fulfilled the requirement, it's true.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0452par0050	20 is 20, according to 81.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0451par0051	Well, if at least 15 lawmakers aren't present at the General Assembly, or if there's no congressman...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0452par0052	"Or Ramadan," he says.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0451par0053	...or if not -- it's true -- if they can be put to the vote by a congressman or not -- the motion for open voting has been met once because at least one of the three conditions has been met, the motion for open voting has not dropped. Do we agree on that? Agreed. The demand for an open vote has not been dropped, but after the request for an open vote has been passed -- all the opposition parties, all of them, and the ruling party, as lawmakers agreed on this -- if one of these signees does not enter the system, the vote will be turned into a vote. It says: net, net. So there's nothing here that needs interpretation. The article was adopted as soon as he saw 139. On the other hand, let's come back to last week. Mr. Hamzacebi counted his friends into the system after he became an open vote here. However, if those 20 MPs had been added above 168, -- I claimed that day -- that law passed 438 rows of law. And I don't want to get into an argument, I'm just talking about the implementation of the Civil Code. That matter has been discussed, it's been a blessing; it's another matter. However, in terms of the Civil Code, the application of Hamzacebi (Hamzacebi) actually applies to us. We just had to check here to see if they were in the system, even though we agreed to an open vote of friends. If they were in the system, there was no problem, but if there wasn't one, it would turn into a vote, and the law says it would be passed, and I declare that I'm in the President's favor, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0453par0057	Thank you. Against my attitude, Mr. Çağlar Demirel. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0454par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, when implementing the Civil Code and the Constitution, it is necessary to implement it in general, not according to individuals. I mean, you really need to look at the situation before, what kind of practice has been done in the past years? We weren't there last week, but in last week's practice, there's no other application this week, so for individuals, there's no application. So, in accordance with the Civil Code law, if it passes between the issues referred to in 143, and, and if it passes through, it must all be in sync, so that the three, four, five demands are carried out together. However, if one of them is not done here, the second one is addressed. There are very clear statements. So, you know, the first thing to vote is to start with members who want an open vote. But now, if you look at the previous application, the second paragraph of 143 will have to be put to the presidency before the vote.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0455par0064	That condition has been fulfilled.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0454par0065	Secondly, it's also very important: it's very clear here that we've been through this kind of situation before. There's no place for you to vote for any compass or vote for. You already have this vote with the electronic system, and those who demand it do not have to go into the electronic system, because in the case before that, it is clear enough that 15 people are here with their signatures and that they are here. So, I think the president was biased in the process, just by criticizing his attitude in general. So in private and in terms of procedure, I would like to say that perhaps in the Civil Code, in order to be clearer and clearer, I would like to express that perhaps all presidents should make their assessments on this subject and set a course accordingly. Otherwise, we'll get very different results in situations like this. Last time something different happened, today is different, tomorrow when the President changes, we may face another situation. For him, I think it should be acted in accordance with the Civil Code. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0456par0070	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Congressmans, while we conduct our work, we have to act according to the Civil Code provisions when we run this House. We also take into account some of the past practices regarding things that have not been made very clear in the Civil Code, but at this moment, in an open vote on the request, the 143th article of the Turkish National Assembly's Union is very clear. According to this clause, the vote must not have a mandatory vote or a mandatory secret vote before the open vote can be made. Like in our case. In these cases, 15 MPs can ask for an open vote in writing. According to 81, there are 20 of them. The motions, which require an open vote, must be submitted to the presidency before the vote is passed and 15 lawmakers who want an open vote must be present in the courtroom when this request is voted on. In the second and third jokes of Article 143 of the Civil Code, the request for an open vote will be dropped if at least 15 of the motion holders are not present at the General Assembly Hall or any of them do not participate in the vote. Since open voting is now being carried out by electronic devices, it is imperative that after the vote has been taken out of the electronic device and the lawmakers who request an open vote be determined whether they are voting or not. The vote must be signed if it is determined that not even one of the lawmakers who have asked for an open vote is not voting. As a result, the first year of the 22nd century was in the 32nd Legislature, and the third year of the 23rd century became a clear vote in the 104th Amendment. Therefore, while the voting process continues, the members of parliament who have called for an open vote on the bet have not entered the system and have not voted, even though we have warned the Interior Charter 143. In this case, there is no change in my attitude and it has turned into an open vote. There's nothing else I can do. My attitude hasn't changed. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0457par0076	Matter accepted.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0456par0077	I've already stated that the substance has been accepted. So, in chapter one...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0458par0079	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0456par0080	Mr. Master, come in. I promise you, for a minute, it's 60.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0458par0084	Thank you. You've already made up your mind about your attitude. I didn't want to influence that decision in any way, so I didn't take any promises. However, I don't think it's very clear what you're saying here in the Civil Code. So you specifically said, "If anyone doesn't take the vote, you said, "Obviously. " He's not a common parentheses here. And I'll tell you this: the first thing to start a vote is from members who ask for an open vote. Now, it's not about voting, it's about getting them ready here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0459par0089	No, no.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0458par0090	I'm just saying what I think.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0460par0091	Congressmans, wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0458par0092	After that, at least fifteen of those with suggestions are not present at the General Assembly... I mean, what does he want? He wants 15 people present at the General Assembly Hall. Look, it's not a common parentheses here, it's for the next ones or the next ones. For example, if we read it like this, there's nothing going on: at least fifteen are incomplete signatures... not a sentence like that. So it's related to the 15th part of that part before or after that. After that, nooksan signature is not accepted by any member of parliament...... and then they don't participate in the play..... my opinion is different from the two of you's so-called ideas. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In my opinion, not even one of the signees here would be willing to take part in the vote, since there should have been a phrase like "If no one else were to attend" or "if not to participate" there would have been an expression. When he calls the 15th, he speaks openly of the 15th.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0461par0096	Thank you, Master. I know what you mean. Now, first of all, since open voting is now being carried out by an electronic voting device, it is not a matter of voting before the other members who call for an open vote. There are other examples. Secondly, if you look at the fourth joke, Mr. Master, the fourth joke says: "If it is finally understood that none of the 15 members of the public voting motions had signed the vote in the box, then the vote, the signatory vote, will be carried out again, which is very clear.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0462par0099	Mr. President, then it's too short, if you don't mind...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0461par0101	One second, okay. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one moment... I promise Mr. Master. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0463par0104	Now, I don't think that's compared to here because the third paragraph is about dropping the open vote request, and the other one, look, it's about not having a clear vote, but turning the signal into a game. I mean, the box thing is different.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0461par0105	That's what we're saying, the open vote is already turning into a sign game, which is exactly what we're saying.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0463par0106	The request for an open vote falls in the third paragraph.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0461par0107	Yeah, when the open vote goes down, it turns into a vote.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0463par0108	I don't think there's anything here compared to paragraph four.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0461par0109	Thank you very much. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second part includes 28 to 56. The first word on the group's behalf is for Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0464par0119	I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group over the second chapter. I want to express our understanding of the concept of university and how we approach issues, thinking that the issues on the second chapter are more about higher education. Congressmans, we believe that the structure of the university, the most powerful in the conflict of values, the most resourceful, the most ambitious, the most popular, the richest, the most deceptive, not the most supportive, but those who struggle to win the truth, the people whose job is to search for the truth, should be together. We believe that the university's reading, writing, research, even teaching, thinking on the way to search for the truth are places that express itself in various ways. It's not frozen memory information that's known under the university roof, it's thought materials that are constantly being interpreted. The university teaches the student not what to think but what to think; it improves the student's understanding and ability to judge. The university professor, who is on the way to search for the truth, is not an officer under the trustee's delegation or the rector or any other person or institution; he takes his salary to do it, not in return for his work. This is where I remember the precious scholar, scientist Yilmaz Özakpınar Hodja, who spoke these truths. Dear lawmakers, there were 193 universities in our country, including 109 state universities, 76 foundation universities, 8 foundation vocational universities, before the July 15th black night and the traitorous attempt. 15 foundation universities have been closed as part of the operations. We've all been through this process together, and at the point of eliminating the victims of colleges that have been shut down, the efforts and political party groups of the NGO have made special effort to minimize this victimhood with the offers of academic lawmakers. I'd like to congratulate you on your efforts to negotiate with the Assembly of the Board of Higher Education on this matter and see a partner in the solution. With military higher education institutions, law enforcement institutes, the universities of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and private status state universities, prereceptions are quite large. All right, don't these extras bring problems? Of course, it brings with it huge problems. Opening a university with each one didn't solve problems, so we faced that truth. It may be a goodwill initiative, but the initiative at universities did not just exist to seek the truth and to be enlightened, but when Darulfunun and İstanbul University moved to Ankara, the Faculty of Dil-History and Geography established it as a symbol of Ankara-based enlightenment. Later in the rulings, the University of Ataturk, along with Menderes, was founded at that time, in order to spread its population to Anatolia. Another political development, which wanted to be remembered for the universities of its own ruling era, was the result of opening other universities in the country during the Özal. Later, when universities' backyards and centres of ideology seem to be the centers of ideas, status quos at that time, we have the republic, the regime on behalf of the Interuniversity Council. At the time of demonstrations, the number of universities has been greatly increased to increase the number of rectors and reduce political tensions in that sense with the Interuniversity Council. This enhancement may have been business then, but in today's time, it's at universities that qualify for institutionalization and the search for truth. Competently, universities that can serve world standards and universities that have been opened with any political advice have begun to be differentiated and have to be started. Now, in this context, we have scientists, experienced lawmakers from academiya. There are also books that these lawmakers edit, about college, science, search for truth. We ask that our teachers, who write books on these issues, who express ideas, come and express themselves on the stand and express their opinion to relevant institutions and organizations. We'll all look for the truth in the House of Nations together, and we'll have to do it in spite of political realities, the way the intellectual sometimes shouts the truth that exists in his definition. Political positions will not prevent us from speaking the truth. In this context, it's also a pleasure to see that the teachers I mean are present at the General Assembly right now. When we look at the acquish of Turkish culture, we see that that climate, which has a habitat in the valley of Maveraunnehir, which is always referenced to enlightenment, has brought joy to the mind from within itself, while it has developed positive sciences. The oasis grew and fermented to form the center of Turkish-Islam civilization because it was the place where those who could not find a living place in it came and took refuge and expressed themselves freely. There, with the fermented spirit, we, Seljuklu, Ottomans and roots became the ancient horse of the Republic of Turkey today. So if we can build a vision of the future on this reality, if we can succeed, we can come to the conclusion that we can't do it, and if we waste people's hours with noise like that, we can't account for it to the nation and the people who are watching us in the realm of meaning. I'd like to express my regret as a member of parliament who's trying to think about the issue today, as a member of the General Assembly, because the background of political tensions comes to the agenda of some of the files, due to the removal of the negotiating ground with opposition parties. It also saddens us as the National Movement Party Group that the Assembly is unable to work in this sense, when it comes to things that can be passed through compromises, both in regulations in higher education legislation or in technical education. Because, I know, I know, I'm aware that the unqualified, unqualified, day-to-day issues and technical issues have been created by competent bureaucratic experience and observations in the field. The laws that many of our MPs here will say yes to many things await us. We intend to go to these laws and face the truth and comfort the nation, and be a little more discreet in that sense, dear friends. It's really moving, under the university roof, not the frozen memory information, but the constantly recursive, interpretive center of thought. I want to remind you that politics is also a dynamic process, and that politics that is being rebuilt and broken down at any moment can be re-opened with a new spirit in each session. Hopefully, with a little more compromise on the issues of the second chapter, I'd like for the areas of discussion to continue at the point of finding the better, the better, the right. And as our Erzurum MP Professor Kamil Aydın Hajji reminded me before me, if a Turkish child can succeed in winning the Nobel Prize in Science by going to America, he must be able to find the infrastructure to receive the Nobel Prize in Science from a university in Turkey. If we can't get the mind to power, if we can't get the common mind out of the union of differences, then there's nowhere left to go, so I guess I don't want to call it last chance, but... we have the obligation to reevaluate this political climate, which we have to reread after July 15th. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We are aware of these obligations as the National Movement Party. I expect the entire political institution to act on these truths, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0465par0133	Thank you. The second word on behalf of the groups is "Izmir MP Mustafa Ali Balbay" on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0466par0137	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm not going to say this time of night, but in the early hours of November 26th, I really want to share with all of you our three hundred years of training with each of you. First of all, it's in the Library of Parliament; I'd like to recommend to you all a book by Turkish scientist Niyazi Berkes, who sums up our three hundred years of struggle under the name Modernisation in Turkey. Friends, the Ottoman Empire of the 1699 Karlofian Treaty was too late when it first sat at the table, not as a world emperor, but as an equal state with countries. Europe crossed borders with the Renaissance, the Industrial Revolution began with steam power, and now the Ottomans remained at a point where they would be too late to reach them. For three hundred years, dear friends, our history is, in a sense, a history of education. Our stumbling in the field of education, our two forwards, our three steps back, are we still entering Turkey's European Union today, or should we join each other? Friends are particularly interested in the Ottoman era, especially in the AKP friends, and when they look at that period well, they've made it possible for different reasons that every Padişa who wants to reform education in the last two hundred years has either been restrained or unable to do their duty. Niyazi Berkes says that he is the only leader in our three hundred years of process who has been able to achieve reforms until the end of his mind. Mahmoud, III. Every step that Selim took was a training reform, friends, about the reorganisation of armies in the books of history, the restoration of state structure. But, unfortunately, it didn't succeed until the Battle of Salvation. Of course, there are many examples of the Ottoman era's process, my friends. For example, Professor Adnan says in Advar's science history: "In the days of the Ottoman period, when the blackboard is on the agenda, he does not allow the use of a sheyhullislam blackboard, and if you take it to the Kaaba, you can use it. He says, "Adnan Adıvar, I show you the source, where you can do something. There are many such examples, and unfortunately, we can't catch the age at that time, my friends. Of course, after the Salvation War, the biggest step was the founding war, and Mustafa Kemal asked that two factions not join the Liberation War: Teachers and students; they will be the main force of our future struggle. The first meeting of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was in Bursa (in the language of that period) after the fall of the enemy from Izmir to the sea on 9 September 1922. On September 22, 1922, he spoke his famous statement in Bursa. The teachers said that the next generation would be your work. For example, earlier, I believe, our friends from the National Movement Party gave examples of Cahit Arf. Cait Arf is one of the first graduates of the republic in high school. He says in his memory: "We were so full of republical excitement and the thrill of learning new things that you know, cahit arf, a world-class scientist and the finder of the arf theorem. We believed that we would solve all problems in our classes, that if all problems were over, we would create new problems -- mathematically -- we would solve them. Attila Ilhan, the famous poet, also in his memory, we worked in high school with such a thrill of a republic that we thought the republic would weaken if it was weak on our report card. That's the republic rising above a generation like this. Now, this achievement in the field of education... Scientists of that time are growing up with such a spirit that, according to my research, friends -- I don't think there's a single one -- Turkish scientists who went to different countries of the world at that time for science, professors, professors, students, students, dear friends, they all return to Turkey and practice what they learn in this country. But, today, friends, the point of our education system is that a student who's going abroad isn't coming back, and if his family wants to come back, don't come back, son, and build a future there. Go to colleges, guys. I go from time to time. I say to those students, is there anyone here who would like to go abroad and live the rest of their lives abroad? For what it's worth, it's a huge majority of people saying yes, I want to go. Friends, the greatest erosion in a country, the greatest loss of a country, is that its youth does not seek its future in its own country. Today we're dealing with a painting like this. Yeah, I've given some examples of the past in education, I've put the weight there, but now where I want to bring the promise... part two is more about colleges. Unfortunately, when we discussed this law, there was no state of emergency about universities -- I think, March, April, in those months -- but after July 15th, 18 universities were shut down. In the period after that, there were such developments that friends -- our friend Ceyhun Irgil here was particularly interested in closed universities, and we were interested -- a large number of young people were once again disappointed. Now, with this law, everything is being re-planned until the safety of the faculty and even how to take the university exams, but everything is so redesigned that we really doubt it's for the best. Even in this law alone, friends, even in the bag of law, many arrangements have been made, two or three times in the last five years. On the other hand, think about it, it's called an education inspector, it's called a master inspector, they've changed their name four times. The review board has changed twice. Once the review boards have been cancelled, now they're being brought back in. One of the key environments in universities that will allow students to do science, to think freely, is that they can say what they want. Of course, I'd like to thank you very much for a common understanding in the subcommittee about the new NGO disciplinary regulations, but there was also the general spirit, the constraint of freedoms and the constraints on what students should do and what they shouldn't do. Now, of course, since we've opened from universities, very short... there's one country in the world, India friends, 7,000 universities; there's two countries, America, 6,500 universities; 57 Islamic countries with 1.5 billion populations, friends, when you take out Turkey, there are 600 universities; friends, less than one tenth of India. This painting shows that the problem of not being able to capture the age of the Islamic world and under the influence of the imperialist countries is really the problem of education. We have such a leader that Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said that his only legacy was wisdom and science. Like this, there's no other leader in the world. And I think we should look at this reform with that light. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0467par0152	Thank you. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mud MP Ahmet Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0468par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, Mr. Secretary, we are now entering the second chapter of such a fundamental law at this time of night, of course. The first 13 articles of the second chapter of the fundamental law are about universities, Mr. Secretary. However, the first nine articles of these 13 articles are related to disciplinary procedures at the university, either by re-designing the boards or by redesigning them. It appears that after July 15th, a new disciplinary regulations and disciplinary boards are being targeted, especially to serve to facilitate the redesign of universities or to facilitate the dismissal of some faculty. Let's put it this way -- the man who was before me -- I read the book "Modification in Turkey" by Niyazi Berkes, who was thrown out with three friends from History in 1945. This country has no experience of three hundred years, no experience of college for three hundred years. In particular, we face an academic unit and academic history that was only imprisoned in Istanbul prior to the republic. There is no understanding of a university spread across Anatolia, or an academic unit that is the capital of the Republic or the center of the Liberation War, which is now the center of the Assembly, and there is no Egelu, there is no Mediterranean, there is only limited to Istanbul, and since the republic's establishment, the academics have contributed to the process of rebuilding the understanding of university in this country, especially because of the efforts of Ataturk, especially as German scientists have been introduced to the country. Let's just say that through the history of the Republic, universities have never been free. For one thing, the goal of the universities established with the republic is to raise members to the country's administrative levels in line with official ideology, which is not the only goal. However, the history of academics who have been slightly separated from official ideology, who have been cut off from the concept of monotheism within the framework of that nation's state perspective, is also equivalent to how they have been dealt with. In 1945, the expulsion of Pertev Nail Boratav and Behice Boran, along with Niyazi Berkes. In the process that followed, colleges were already increasingly undermining an ideological subservient, and universities may be different from the problems that may have been compromised in the history of the republic today, but the university was never autonomous, and the university could not function only as institutions that scientists worked for by the autonomy of science. Let's get this settled first. Today, however, even after July 15th, the problems with this parallel state structure were often raised, and the political government tried to address it after December 17th-25th to bring it to the present, but there is one thing that everyone in the entire country will know about this parallel state structure or congregation structure, which is that it has 40 years of history. The congregation did not appear on December 17th or 25th, but had a 40-year history, and the first institutions they targeted during 40 years of history were educational and scientific institutions. School jobs and universities have goals of being able to exist, to be difficult. If you encode the history of this structure, this Laughing Movement, this community, this parallel state structure into December 17-25, if you ignore the process before it, you will have done a blind, lame, slow work, and we cannot have done it right. If you put the 17-25 as a generation, you would have been able to fully launder the processes of this structure before that. On this basis, once, in the 12 years of this 40-year history, we face the reality of a community that has acted together with the current political power, has done a joint job, and has destroyed a lot of people, and you have to be open to more debates about this organization, which has received so many organised, unfair possibilities within the state, and to be open to criticism of the work you've done together by opposition parties. Because, let's put it this way, when you were together, it hurt a lot. I too have suffered a lot in the 21-year academic process of this congregation structure. Other than us, I've been pressured to be a member of the jury in the process of putting academics out there who don't think like themselves, who try to design universities, who don't think like them, who are out of the one tornado, who lacks integrity, and they've been subjected to mobbing. By clearing that process, you'll never get the next semester right, and if you've reached the account of the 12 years, open it, believe me, we can move forward by writing the next term on a more accurate, cleaner page. If not, if you miss their process, we will never be able to do any good in the work of organizing the future if you launder the congregation before December 17th or 25th. Velev, who had not been exposed on December 17th or 25th, had not been struck in this country on July 15th, this congregation would have been such a harmful congregation. Look, if it weren't for December 17th or 25th, if it weren't for July 15th, there would have been a lot of people who had been persecuted by them. Once, it was on the main axis of your partnership: One, he saw the goal of co-fighting against Kurds in universities and educational institutions, with the Kurds to narrow down to leftists and social opposition. They've never given anyone a chance to live who doesn't think like they do. While they were filling up universities with a wad of academics who lacked integrity, many who had come to those universities with their own sweat and hard work had gone through very serious administrative investigations. Not enough, apart from administrative investigations, as I myself have lived -- they have activated their influence in the armband and the judiciary, making many defendants, Mr. Secretary. I was taken into custody by their security extensions, and I was victimized by their prosecutors and judges in the court, because of a conspiracy in 2009, and because I did not back down despite my administrative investigations against the pressure of this community at universities. In other words, let's put it this way: look, despite all their sins, all their wrong policies and practices, today they must be passed through fair administrative investigations and judicial processes. It's the universal law norm that we all need one day. I don't know if he's guilty; yes, there's a lot of crime, but even if they've been hit, even if they've been guilty before him, even if they've been guilty, we can't take away their right to a fair trial, even if they've been wronged by a lot of people. For once, the process of putting tens of thousands of people on their doorstep is run backwards. Today, or rather, since yesterday, many of your friends have expressed the joy of returning certain wronged public workers to their duties. Do we think anything's been run backwards, precious MPs? Which is that we were going to conduct an administrative investigation first, and we were going to suspend or export a crime if it came up after an administrative investigation or judicial process. We export it first, and then -- if it's guilty or not -- you say, "Let them object, we'll examine the investigation accordingly." It's not the right way to operate backwards. Without an investigation, everyone should stay away from decisions that expose victims without a legal process. Such a law order and plane may need those who apply it some day tomorrow. By confiscating their schools, assigning trustees to their banks and companies -- even if it's harmful -- we can create a periodary weakness in them, but with these illegal methods, we can't weaken their thinking, we can only illegalize them. This is basically what I'm saying, especially in the framework of law, not by fighting them and raising oppressive policies, but by expanding freedoms and democracy further, we'll be in the way of these warped structures. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0469par0167	Thank you. Speeches for the group are complete. The first word on behalf of the individuals belongs to Lord Ceyhun İrkil. Here you are, Mr. Irgil. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0470par0173	Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, good morning. Early this morning, in the second part of the law, the construction of universities, the issues of internal discipline of universities are mainly discussed. In this part of the law, since it's more about colleges, I'd like to address some of the recent concrete issues that have been happening at universities while the minister is here, while the RCC representatives are here. In particular, at these closed universities right now -- I've already told you -- the problems seem to have been overcome, the students seem to have settled, the NGO has been able to replace about 45,000 students. In the meantime, about 20,000 students were wiped out and had to drop out of colleges. However, there is a problem with the students who are currently in residence, which is that I would like to make sure that when the NGO representatives are here, I would like to see the ministry take over very quickly, especially in other matters: in the first, middle education and other schools, and in other projects -- because of the very chaotic structure of education -- the university foot is weakened and the Ministry of National Education is further behind and regressive in matters related to the university. So, especially in the NGO, the students of these closed universities were asked to pay this week. In fact, you took it down to six instalments when there were 12 instalments, and now you're asking for three instalments in advance. These people's families are mostly low-income people in the winter, and some of them are going to drop out of school because of money. I mean, this hasn't happened in a long time. People have come to drop out of school because of poverty or because they can't pay installments. One of the more important problems is that the SEC sent a specific and narrow financial payment statement to universities, but it did not declare it on its website; it announced it, one day it was incomplete, it was incomplete, it was full, we warned it, they removed it, but even though we called it many times today, for example, three times we called it, it was unreachable. As a result, the SEC still did not include on its site what method and basis the students would pay, even though the time for payment was near. It's such a simple problem, we have so many teachers, so many lawyers, so many professors, so many staff, but you couldn't put a page in there and the basics. One of the other major problems is the last month of January when the closed universities receive unemployment benefits for the unemployed academics who remain out of work. They're living on $1,307 now, professors and professors, unemployment checks will be over in January, starting in January, where they won't even have a chance to receive normal minimum wage, unemployment benefits. These are about 2,300 professors, professors, assistant professors. Most of these people came to these universities from public universities. As the valuable speaker has just said, Ahmet Beyin has already moved to public colleges with some sort of internal tactics, as well as an arming, favoring, or some sort of internal tactics. As a matter of fact, if you look at the developments, just if you look at the University of Dicle, you didn't just remove 70 professors, you arrested the chancellor. If that were the reason for the shutdown, you'd have to shut down all the state universities, especially the Tigris. Naturally, you closed these universities, but you didn't come to any conclusions about these faculty, so you didn't say guilty. You didn't say guilty, but these professors can't work now because you gave them a piece of paper from the Social Security Agency, written on it by the State of Emergency. That's why they can't get a job anywhere, they can't work. The resolution of this problem with thousands of academics is one sentence, Mr. Minister. Since the NGO has not ruled them, since -- you are a lawyer -- there is no legal decision, the only thing you can say is that if there are no warrants, there is no blame on the work of these friends if there are no arrest warrants. As a matter of fact, the Ministry of Health did the same thing as August 26th, and there is no harm in the private work of exported and unemployed physicians. Which is why I wish this would be an example for the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of National Education. Other than that, one of the most important problems is that these professors are moving abroad. I'm thinking about bringing it up later because my time is running out, but in the meantime, there's another problem. In these universities, many foreign nationals came and worked in private universities because they could not get into state colleges. Since they married the Turks, their wives naturally worked at the university in Turkey. For example, one of these is Catherine Francesca Coussens. This lady came to Turkey, and she got a job at a university because she was married here, and actually... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...on his way to the University of Çankaya, where he went to the University of Silk. Now, when these people go abroad for any reason, when they go back to their families, somehow when they want to come back to Turkey, you don't let these people into the country without any reason. This, for example, reduces the reputation in the world in Europe. And then you say, why did Europe do this to us? That's where these people go and tell it.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0471par0182	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. The second and final word for the individuals is from Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu. Mr. Gaytancioglu, I don't know how many speeches you've had today, but it's a very fertile day. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0472par0187	Yes, I'm speaking as a professor. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the general reason for our law is that the average age of our population is young and education, education, higher education. College is very important. I served twenty-two years in a university. You need resources to do serious academic studies. Being a student at a public university, passing a lot of tests and getting elected well, that's all that matters. First of all, the source is very important. Your source is human, your source is machine, your source is computer, technology. You should know very well what other countries do, what other scientists do. We opened a university with Her, we found buildings, we appointed a dean, we appointed a college principal. I was also a university director for six years. I know how that mission happened, but when I joined the Republican People's Party, we were dismissed immediately. It's no big deal.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0473par0189	Look, you're here, you're a congressman.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0472par0190	Yeah. It's very important to choose an academic, to find a lecturer here. We're not buying melons from the market, friends. We're choosing scientists to lead Turkey in the future. How did you choose it, or how did the current system choose it? We've been chosen by the SOC system, which you're against, and we're against. So colleges aren't autonomous, they're determined by an upper board. This upper board, who he chooses to run all universities in Turkey, is opposed to this, and now the President chooses their executives. And then there's the university of applied sciences. There are almost universities of applied sciences in every county. We're opening colleges before colleges and colleges are even equipped. It's not a big deal. After that, when we look at the world science ranking, Turkey, unfortunately, is behind us. When we look at the broadcasts, we always publish in C-class magazines. And these titles are very difficult to get, my friends. So, you have to be very careful. The number doesn't matter. It's the quality that counts. Both the quality of the professor and the qualities of higher education schools, universities, and units are very, very important. And, for some reason, every university has a seminary. We're not saying anything, but why are so many theology schools opening up, more departments opening up in social sciences, when there are more schools, other universities, other universities? Don't we need technical science? Don't we need more professors in technical sciences? Like more advanced Japan in the world, like India in the field of science -- countries like China, like England, like America, will we face social sciences, compete with them? Every university has economics, business schools, but since new businesses don't open in Turkey, new factories don't open in Turkey, the rate of growth in Turkey is extremely slow, unfortunately, we can't put business graduates in those businesses. Besides, there's two years of business, two years of economics, accounting. Every single one of them is unemployed. Then they try to get a job at a lot of public institutions, always miserable, always miserable. What I'm talking about here isn't opening colleges, it's building universities. You've opened a university with each, but now, we're looking at... good applications. So you're shutting down the programs. Why are you closing it? Because the students don't. Students are out of work. For no reason, the units are opening up there. So, whatever that area needs, whatever that country needs, whatever that province needs, it needs, it needs the country, it needs Turkey, it needs the future, it needs the faculty, the departments, the programs, 50 years from now. You have to choose the teachers according to these. I'm saying that's our job. Good evening to you all.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0474par0198	Thank you. Now we're done talking. We're going to do a QA on the second part for 15 minutes. I'll take turns making a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the system. We'll use half the time to answer the question and half the time. Mr. Irgil, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0475par0203	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, good morning. I asked these questions yesterday, but when there was another minister and not you, naturally he never answered the questions. I have a few very concrete questions, especially about this February appointment, because that's the question of society, I'm projecting on their behalf, thousands of questions are coming up. We want to know clearly: will there be an appointment in February? That's it. If he's to be appointed by February, as promised before, is there an additional appointment? If not, what's the number of appointments in February? If there's an obstacle in front of you -- it could be -- if you don't get this assignment, people want to know it clearly because it needs to be explained to society. People shouldn't be abused by hope and despair because these people want to make their plans, they want to build their lives according to him, they want to plan their marriage, so maybe they want to get another job. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0476par0209	Thank you. Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0477par0211	Have a good morning. Now that the teaching program has been shut down, how do you plan to appoint the research officers from now on? My second question: especially in rural universities, it's known that there's an alumnus deficit. Will you have special incentives to attract faculty to these universities? Some of the departments of the University of Thrace in Edirne were in our district of Meric, and why were they closed? I'm curious about that.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0478par0216	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0479par0217	Mr. Secretary, many teachers have been suspended or expelled. We have information that the numbers are 38,000. You returned some of these. I wonder if there's a method that we've suggested a few times before: that there's too much haste in the process, that there's no legal and that there's no serious consideration to do -- forgive -- that you do first the deniability of these people, that you do first the decomposition of these people, that you decide in accordance with the legal context of the investigations that have been launched after the investigations that have been launched. It is clear that such a victimage affects an entire family and its surroundings, and that we all have a bad conscience.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0478par0219	Mr. Emir...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0480par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you again about the teachers who haven't been returned to their duties. Of course, it's a pleasure that 6,000 teachers have been reinstated today, but they're also said to be being investigated and investigated by your Ministry. Can't the same be done for our other teachers? Because both our teachers and their parents and more importantly, our children and our students are being victimized here. Now, shouldn't these teachers meet their students, and if there are criminals in them, then there should be legal consequences after the trial? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0481par0223	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0482par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are students at universities, faculty and universities who have stopped studying for various reasons, who have failed to receive pardons in the past, who have had a pre-license, a master's degree and a PhD. These students and their families, who have interrupted their studies, are waiting for a new legal arrangement to document their situation, their special reasons. We have legal proposals. I'd like to bring this matter to the Minister from here. And also -- I've asked you this question a lot, and I'm still going to ask you -- despite the court order in Giresun, our unappointed school principals are waiting to return to their duties. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0483par0228	Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0484par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, first of all, from the textbooks, as far as we've learned, 50 of them have not yet been distributed to schools. What's the latest here? Second, there's another debate about the university exam system. Is there a new system in college entrance exams? There are three-stage debates, like TEOG. My third question: faculty at universities can retire at the age of 72 at 41 universities, and the rest of them can retire at 67. Isn't that against the principle of constitutional equality? My friends asked me, but my last question is, within the framework of the Teacher's Growth Program, 15,000 young people are now in the open, just as they're about to fulfill this dream of becoming a faculty member. What do you intend to do with them?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0485par0234	Mr. Green...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0486par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, for days our parents have been acting on watch against project schools. Armed security forces are on guard in front of Kadıköy Anadolu High School. A day ago, our National Ministry of Education, 20,000 parents faced a terrible consequence in their action in front of the Ministry on this request. My request to the Minister is, how will this solve the problem of our teachers and students now? I mean, we've always had parents and teachers who were victimized in this way. I, the Minister, ask you to solve this problem in the whole of the teachers and ask that our teachers, our students, not be victimized and this problem be solved.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0487par0239	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0488par0240	Thank you, Mr. President. On November 24th, parents who were educated in project schools expressed their most democratic, peaceful and rightful demands to end this exercise, especially the appointment of teachers and administrators in these schools, and handed over about 23,000 signatures to your Ministry, as Mr. Green stated. How do you feel about the assessment of these righteous demands, Mr. Secretary? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0489par0243	Mr. Oz, finally.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0490par0244	Minister, I asked your Ministry for a written question in May. In 2014, in Çanakkale, after the earthquake, some schools' service buildings were destroyed in Gökçaada. Is it true that Gökceada Ataturk Anadolu High School, Gökçaada Anadolu High School, serves teaching at prefabricated buildings, and the vocational high school at the public educational building? How are the projects and construction processes of the new school buildings expected to be built?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0489par0245	Thank you. I now promise Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, our Minister of National Education, to answer the questions. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0491par0248	Thank you, Mr. President. Is there going to be an appointment in February? You know, in the 2017 budget, the total number of open transfers was set, like 60,000, the number I know. Therefore, all of these 60,000 numbers are excluded; there's a teacher, there's a judge, there's the police, there's the need. Who's going to decide how this spreads out? The Ministry of Finance -- State Staff -- will also meet with the Labour Minister and the relevant ministries, and there will be a distribution. I'm getting to the same point. So without such a meeting, there will be an appointment for you in February. It is not right to say.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0492par0250	60 for the whole year?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0491par0251	Yeah, it's all 60 grand. But I'm very clear that this year we've appointed about 50,000 teachers in the history of the Republic, which is 30,000 in the history of the Republic, and that's about 20,000 teachers in October. How many teachers are we? We have over 903,000 teachers. We're over 90 percent. There are more teachers in some places. Norm, there's more coming for you. When a teacher was assigned to a place that could not be used enough, he was away from home. There was another matter. There is another demand for something different. I'll tell you, it wasn't easy. These project schools are another one of them. Again, in project schools, I'm very clear -- we understand requests -- I've already told you -- we're in management, we've carried out regulations -- a teacher -- you guys, please, take a look -- has served in project schools for 25 years. You're telling me, let him stay for twenty-five years. Another teacher -- I don't give names -- has served for twenty-three years and ten months, you say: let someone else do it for twenty-two years, someone else has done it for eighteen years, another one has done it for twenty-nine years, and another one has done it for twenty-nine years, another English teacher has done it for twenty-three years, and one has the National Education Basic Code says in the Basic Code: If you do it for four years, you'll do it for one year, if you do it in a school, you'll do it for twenty-nine years. Is it possible? So we thank these teachers and thank them for their services. How long did you serve when all the MPs here received such a request? Thank you. So you've had a really big experience, and if you show that experience in the same school that you're going to go to, we thank you very much. They should be able to say thank you very much. I've told you before, as in project schools, I mean, before these appointments are made, they're downgraded. We're talking about 58 schools, and we're talking about it right now, because no one talks about projects from vocational high schools, they have imam-hating high schools, or Imam-hating high schools, they don't talk about them, but we're talking about 58, and we're talking about 58, from 163 project schools, and we're talking about 58. Then won't there be a question? So we have an academic setback, a disqualification, a claim to lower quality around here, an accusation like that, a charge like that. But when I put the academic thing in, what if, look, we didn't know that, we're going to withdraw that claim. The number of teachers who had made a doctorate was 2. After these appointments, 19; so we increased the academic level in comparison to the previous one, and so we will do so from now on. We want... look, if everyone wants this national education to go bad... it's me who wants to improve the quality of national education in the first place. Why? It's a mission, folks. I'm in today, I'm out tomorrow, but I'd like to do the best I can on a mission given to me, a power of attorney. Do I want a well-made system to go bad, or do I want it to go bad? Believe me, I've been doing these things, and I've been able to tell you, so far, there's nothing wrong with it, and I want to make that very clear. Another deputy of ours, Mr. Sarihan, said that the assignments were 38 grand... we don't have that number. About how we cut him off. Here's the number: 30,351, the ones we cut off. Today at work, we returned our 6,007 teachers. That doesn't really mean they're cleared, nor does that mean they're guilty. It was an administrative measure, and after that we found that implementing an administrative measure was not appropriate for public benefit. Our teachers also met with their students. However, the investigation continues. Some may receive no punishment, others may receive a warning punishment, others may receive a different discipline; they too are open to judgment. The administration can be wrong, and all actions and procedures of the administration are subject to judicial supervision. But these are our teachers, and the children they're dealing with are our children. We want it to be better.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0493par0256	Is it the ones that were returned from the open or the ones that were exported?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0491par0257	Sir, I don't usually know which one. And I'll tell you what's going on in the latest statement: there's an open total of about 11,000, but I'm guessing some of them are from the EDUCMENT -- let me get it looked at here -- about 4,000. I'll give you the numbers: 9,000, 5,000 are from the EDUCATION, no, I think it's less, so there's a number like 4,000-somethings coming up, and the rest are people who are believed to belong to this parallel state structure, or to the PKK terrorist organization. And it also helps to say that it's not really such an export, it's possible that when we suspend a friend of ours, a brother of ours, a prosecutor, a friend of ours, an employee of ours, you've exposed them, but there's really no such claim about it. Some people are getting a document from the D.A.'s office. Here's the phone I have on me, there's the bylock, you suspended it because of the bylock. After a while, maybe he'll go to exports, but he goes to the prosecutor's office, he says: "This phone is not mine. This phone is registered to me, but I gave it to my wife, I gave it to my brother, I gave it to my son, I gave it to my uncle, I gave it to my friend, I gave it to my friend. He's going to the prosecutor's office, and he's actually making a statement: "This phone is registered to my friend, but I'm using it. There's even someone in Hatay. I used it by Lock, and I used the red one of the bylocks," he says. I mean, normally our parents described him, but he probably knows his status in that status. He says, "I used this too." We just sent him away. Someone else... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's my last word. And if there's anything I can't answer here, I'll give you what's written down. Court order in Giresun...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0494par0263	Complete it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0491par0264	Thank you, Reverend President. Believe me, I'll follow the court's orders. Even my words are wrong to a lawyer. We have to enforce the court order.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0495par0266	The branch managers...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0491par0267	There's no doubt about it, is there? Bring it to me very clearly...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0495par0268	I did, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0491par0269	... Tell them: "Ismet Bey, here is a clear, concrete, clear court decision." But I usually think there's a difference in the interpretation of those court decisions, why? You did this, it was wrong. It was canceled, but he wants a re-evaluation on the court order. That's our assessment; you think it should be assigned, and we think it should be reassessed. But if it's so concrete, there's no doubt about it, it's the rule of law. Everyone's head is thin of hair in front of the law. As they say, we too are thin of hair. I'll have friends give you college stuff again, if I have to give it to you in the process. I sent some congressmen to my friends, and I sent them what they had prepared. We gave him almost all the textbooks.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0496par0272	Complete it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0491par0273	That's my last sentence. It's called the EBA... We haven't been delivered, but we haven't. It's in our Education Information Network. So where is he going to find the book when he's in trouble? What my friends give me is that almost all books are delivered, not all of them are given -- not like 50 -- all of them. In fact, he says: "Father, don't you believe me?" He says, "My friends have given them all." Should I lie too? A book didn't come, he said. Well, then, friends, look, he didn't get it. When I said, okay, we didn't, but there's an EBA, so there's a document he can access. The information I've been given is that all the books are being distributed.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0496par0275	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0491par0276	Thank you, too, thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0496par0277	You can answer the rest in writing, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0497par0278	I asked about the galaxy.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0491par0279	I'll look at the galaxy. I believe there is an exceptional place in the sky, a place where positive discrimination must be done; we do what is necessary.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0496par0280	Congressmans, the talks on the second chapter are now complete. I'll submit the clauses in the second section to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are four motions on the 28th article, three of which are of the same nature, that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The article of Article 53 (a) of Law Article 2547, replaced with Article 28 (a) of Law Bill 405, which is currently in session, and I propose and propose that the application centre of institutes and institutes be added to its application centre and to the application of independent institutes to come after the declaration of the institute. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Mujahit Durmişoğlu Halis Dalklıç Ilyas Şeker Osman's love Look Muhammad Emin Akbaşoğlu Now, I'm going to have three proposals that I'm going to read, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 of the Constitutional Code of Law shall be removed from the bill, which shall be adopted by the State Department of National Education, which shall be held in the General Assembly of the Turkish Parliament, in accordance with the provisions of the Law and Law. Gaye Bezeler Mehmet Göker Nihat Yeşil Vecdi Gündü Mahmut Tanal Ceyhun İrgil Ahmet Akın Murat Minister Tur Yıldız Bicer The signatures of the other motion are: Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Mehmet Ali Aslan İbrahim Ayhan Ziya Pir The signatures of the other motion are: Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Desire Virtue Izzet Ulvi Router of the Sea Depboy Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0498par0313	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0496par0314	İstanbul MP Izzet Ulvi Ölter will speak on the first motion of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Orender.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0499par0316	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're talking about the National Ministry of Education in 405 rows and the Bill of Law on the Offices of the Ministry of Education, and the Charter for Amendments in certain Laws and Laws, and we're taking the 28th Amendment. Article 2547 of Article 28 of the Law (a) and (b) jokes are changing. After that, it is added to these changes in jokes that the authorities can begin to investigate the crimes that have been committed, whether the investigation has been launched or a direct investigation has been launched, and in addition to the sub-bend of the number (2) of the same joke, the statement of the state and the foundation has been changed into higher education. Of course, it is unclear and unclear why the declaration of the university was changed by law as a state and a foundation. Second, the fact that the right to study is left to the discretion of the authorities shows that the incident has been somewhat neglected. In any case, the authority, the itamaster, has the right to the appointment authority to review it. However, it is also up to the authorities, the post office, and the authority to assess the seriousness of the accused. Therefore, it is not appropriate for us, of course, to be given the right of appreciation for the study, considering a serious crime. Also, political party activities within higher education institutions or political party propaganda, unfortunately, are being punished with the punishment of reprimanding in addition to verbs in Law 657. I'd like to make an assessment of political parties or political ideas at a university on the Higher Education Board, and I'd like to leave it up to your appreciation to say that I find it incomprehensible. In addition, there is an additional clause in Article 657 of State Officers Act 657, which includes verbs that require the monthly incision of the act, and in carrying out the task, language, race, color, gender, political thinking, philosophical belief, religion and sectarianism, behavior that targets the benefit or harm of individuals. It's extremely awkward, of course. Why is he upset? At that time, I think you're going to apologize to the saintly members of the nationalist nationalist movement, who have been publicly persecuted, disciplined for their political opinion alone, who have been banished, who have been especially expelled, who will certainly ask for their forgiveness, because so far, in 14 years, our bureaucrats, who have been known to be nationalist patriots in this country, our bureaucrats, our bureaucratic officers, have had some very serious problems, unfortunately. You all know that. In this context, we believe that Article 28 is not true and should be withdrawn; we believe that the Commission will evaluate it in this framework. In addition, news of the suspension of nearly 11,500 teachers related to the PKK in September of last September fell to the press, and at other times, there were statements from Mr. Minister. What is the status of these teachers in this regard, how many of them have been reinstated, and how many have been completely removed from their professions? To know more about this matter is to be given information by you. I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0500par0324	Thank you. Diyarbakır MP Ziya Pir will speak on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Pir.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0501par0328	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I think we're going to have a late night today. I have a 32-page speech here, and I'm prepared, so don't worry. I hope Osman Bak doesn't talk to me, so I mean, I want to get it over with, but...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0502par0330	I suppose you do.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0501par0331	We're good with Osman, that's why I'm telling you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0503par0332	Osman looks bad.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0501par0333	Let him see, let him see; I'm prepared. You say the word, I'm prepared. Now, I, of course, want to get into some economics, some European Union issues today because Mr. Mehmet Simsek has taken a position on a position that the Prime Minister dropped yesterday. I'm going to go into other matters in more detail in the next time I talk about the second chapter. Now, the customs union, the European Union, the Shanghai Five, I'd like to say a few words about these. 1996, in fact, 31/12/1995, but 1/1/1996, because we were entering the customs union, we had a big party here, we had a celebration. So a year after that, I came to Turkey; I was living in Europe; I was a university at the time, and I came to do a scientific study on it. I've been to Brussels before, and they told me at the Turkish desk in Brussels: "We don't have any research on this, we don't have any scientific work, we don't need it. For us, Turkey is a market. You go to Turkey, investigate in Turkey. I came; on February 28, 1997, I remember very well how the students were beaten at the university gate. I had studied there, but I found that there was no study in Turkey, just the work of the IKV, the teacher at TOBB, and Ridvan Karluk, a little more theoretical work, but I couldn't find anything else called scientific work, no research. Later, I came to the conclusion that the customs union is good for Turkey, but it has to be used well. If you can't use it, if companies can't prepare for it, if the government can't channel them well, we can't use the customs unit well, we'll be harmful. That's what happened to me. I have lived in Europe for many years, but do not think that I am not a person who loves and praises Europe so much, and I have said that from here. In 2004, Mr. Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the period, held those talks in Brussels, while I was not part of the delegation, but I was in Brussels. We often discussed these matters with him during that period. Again, the same way, around 1996 or 1995, there was another big celebration here, but what happened? We couldn't use it again. So it's our fault? Europe, of course, is guilty of the crimes of Greece, or of the crimes of Cyprus. We're here today. Today, our exports to the EU are 57 per cent of all exports, 22 per cent to China and Russia. I'm going fast because time is running out. It's just that our private sector said 311 billion -309 is another friend before me, but I know from the Central Bank 311 -- gross debt, 211 billion net dollars in debt. In the last two and a half months, for no apparent reason, this private sector's debt has risen by $25 billion. Twenty-five billion, friends, that's five TAPRAS. He's owed five TAPRAS. THE largest industrial institution in Turkey is worth $5 billion. The private sector in Turkey has borrowed extra money for 25 billion months due to foreign currency rates. Now, the Prime Minister's office has a tweet, he says: there's no shortage of currency and dollars in the market. Everything will go as planned. What has the government planned? I want to know about it. What is planned? Now, in such a case, you enter into the word "Shanghay Five," and enter into the ball. I'm betting that no one here has any idea about the Shanghai Five, so he doesn't have a good idea about the Shanghai Five. I, at least, haven't heard from the AK PARTY desks yet, so please let me know. I wonder how those who used to call it Moscow have come running after the Shanghai Five today. My respects.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0504par0342	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0505par0343	Yeah, he's president of the energy club, Ziya. Read it, you're president of the energy club.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0501par0344	Say something while you're there.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0504par0345	Bursa MP Ceyhun Irgil has asked for a statement on the other proposal of the same nature.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0506par0346	Ziya said it, it's over.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0507par0347	You're going to go through with it anyway.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0506par0348	So we've got enough stuff for next Saturday.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0507par0349	I do, a lot. What's a lot of stuff?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0506par0350	You know, there's plenty of stuff in training.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0508par0351	Oh, you're a nice passer-by.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0509par0352	Here you are, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0506par0353	We don't rust, your training supplies are so high that we can talk for a year. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have now said that the total number was 60,000 when the Minister responded, which he has already made a statement on the commission. What we understand from here is that when I met with the Minister of Finance, he said the same thing, we will go into a recession next year. The government may be right about that. I mean, governments can adjust their economies based on this, they can't hire any staff, they can't throw any teachers. This may be the choice of a state or a government, a government; there is no objection, it's the transparency that counts. There are people waiting for it, they're in KPSS. You're going to say: I'm not posting this year. It's over, it's okay, it's okay. You'll say, "Let's all go our way, let's go our way." That's understandable. I'm starting a staff this year, I'm not opening it. I'm hiring this year, I'm not buying it, I'm not buying it. You have to say something so people can plan their lives. As a matter of fact, I think it's an opportunity for him to appoint about 30,000 soldiers, police officers, and about 15,000 teachers at the average, maximum, at least 15,000 teachers. This should be made clear, so let the teachers plan their lives. Other than that, there's also a debate about how to appoint a teacher. It happened yesterday, and I'd like to show it here: Mr. President Ashliye gave a speech in the morning, where he said: "We have a teacher's opening, we're going to take care of the teacher's deficit, and that's why we're going to give the biggest part of it to education. The Prime Minister came out in the evening, and he said, "We don't have a teacher's opening. I mean, the Prime Minister denies what the President said in the morning. Now, of course we'd like to hear the truth from the Minister. We, of course, believe in the President, there's a lack of teachers. For this reason, the Minister has just said: "This year we've made the most appointments of the last years. No Minister, you're wrong there, your bureaucrats are wrong; you've made 52,000 appointments in 2015, you've made 57,000 appointments in 2012, and I'd like to tell you that.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0510par0357	Thank you, you've learned!
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0506par0358	It's all right, it's all right. Other than that, you just said, "Should teachers work in the same place for years, of course they should go all over the country, every part of this country is our homeland, every part of the country." All right, Minister, you're right; all right, let them go. Well, Mr. Secretary, you bureaucrats, in a moment, we will discuss the 37th article in this bill. Why do poor teachers go all over the dorm when they can go where they want, when they can go where they want, when they can be teachers wherever they want, when they don't go to the southeast of the dorm? Let the Minister answer that, then. So you have to stop these discriminations, these double standards. Now, the Minister said: "We're implementing court decisions. I truly believe in Mr. Minister's legal identity, in his good faith, and if I don't, I'll tell you what happened. We've met with the bureaucracy many times, and he's given it to me in his handwriting. It's going to be applied. But there's this: half the decisions of the branch managers haven't been implemented, Mr. Secretary, you know, and I haven't been able to get a clear explanation about it. I'm a doctor, not a lawyer, tell me in English. Because what we see here is that there are so many lawyers, three different lawyers read the same article, you understand something else, you say something else, and this citizen understands nothing. Tell me clearly, we can't get you out of this, brother. Say it. Because you're biased, you're discriminated against, and you're certainly acting on political merits. Other than that, there was just an argument here about the suspended and exported teachers; he says one thing, he says one thing, the newspapers say another. I'll tell you, Mr. Secretary, your exported number is 30,351, your number of suspended teachers is 16.668. As of this evening, the teacher was left in the open at 10,681 because you returned 6,007. Your number of teachers was 6,474. Your number of teachers who have been discharged and extradited under the law is 311. So if you hadn't returned the 6 grand today, 53,804 teachers would have been exposed and expelled. This corresponds to 5 per cent of the entire staff of the Ministry of National Education. Imagine, a terrorist organization infiltrates 5 per cent of the national education ministry's staff, its individuality, and no one knows about this terrorist organization, it's collaborating. All these teachers, poor teachers in exile, in exile, in prison, out in the open, but the bureaucracy that took them in here, who appointed them, honoring them is on the job, so the Ministry is a white spoon, poor teachers, criminals, terrorists.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0511par0363	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Mr. Sky, you've entered the system, I promise you by 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0512par0369	Mr. President, at this hour, I see there's no chance of a healthy legislature in the House. AKP lawmakers sleep in the back, some of the bureaucrats are unconscious.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0513par0371	That's what it sounds like to you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0512par0372	It's not more serious, it's not inside the House, but where our opposition lobby is, all the windows and doors are being opened in a repair, where all the officers in the opposition lobby have been waiting for hours under the influence of law enforcement and all the other Parliament staff. Such a painting is not human, such a painting is not moral. It's not nice for the ruling party to impose this law on us as soon as I pass it. I'm not particularly...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0514par0374	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0512par0375	I'll wrap it up if you want.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0514par0376	Well, finish it, then. Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0512par0377	It's also against the Constitution, so it's kind of a chore that everyone's facing today, which is about 13 and a half hours at the request of the ruling party.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0515par0378	Then pull the motions.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0512par0379	I don't speak of the inside of the House, but I present to you the outside of the House, the lobby, and you are responsible for it. The health and safety of everyone there is also important to us. There's no glass in the opposition lobby, no frame, and everyone's waiting in the cold. I'm bringing the situation to your attention.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0516par0381	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0517par0382	Mr. President, let's take a break.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0516par0383	Wait a second, let's vote on this stuff, let's take a soup break in a minute, let's warm ourselves up. Mr. Incescuz, a moment.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0518par0386	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, in particular in the fight against terrorism, we don't consider it a chore to work here in an environment where both our country and outside, where our soldiers, our police, are defending their lives inside and out, not saying it's cold or hot. Our fellow lawmakers here are all standing up. (EC PARTY) In line with the House Council, we have worked many times before that until the next morning and until the next day.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0519par0387	He passed out the other day. Have fear of God.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0518par0388	So it's not supposed to be a chore, it's the running of the House according to the House of Parliament. I thank you, all of you, for contributing to the work of Congress.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0520par0391	Thank you, thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0521par0392	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0520par0393	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0521par0394	Mr. President, I have given a very human motive here, and I was not involved in the inside of the House.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0522par0395	Then withdraw the motions.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0521par0396	We decide which motions to withdraw. But it's your responsibility to see that wretched state outside the House of Opposition and find a solution to that, and I want to point out.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0523par0398	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0524par0399	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0523par0400	Mr. Master, here you are, and I promise you for a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0524par0402	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, we work, he's fine, but really, I don't know what the other side's like...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0525par0404	It's the same there.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0526par0405	It's the same here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0524par0406	But look this way, while I'm going to the bathroom, I'm coughing, the friends there are all in a lot of trouble. So it's not about tonight, Mr. President, it's supposed to be done by today. So they've been waiting here for days, months, to advertise some things, and now, it's wintertime, where they're remodeling. That's not gonna happen. So I'm condemning a Parliamentary administration here who can't do a two-cent repair, and right now those friends are really getting sick. Look, there's tea people, cops, consultants; they're in a tough spot. You need to see this, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0527par0408	Why don't you take a break and see?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0528par0409	Thank you. Yes, it's true, we've been through a very important ordeal, you know, with all of you and the entire Council of Congress, the Parliament is making a very intense effort, and it's really putting forth a lot of effort.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0529par0411	Nothing's been done, nothing's been done.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0528par0412	He may be a little late, but on one hand, construction continues while Parliament continues its activities. So, if we wait a little longer, I think they'll do a good job.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0530par0413	I hope so. As usual, it's the workers on the opposition side who suffer, the ruling side...
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0531par0414	It's the same here.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0528par0415	Mr. Demirel, you have my word for a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0532par0417	Mr. President, there's been a period from July 15th to today, so you know that during that time, there's been a long period of vacation, and especially during these times, we've waited for these repairs to be completed, and there's still a period of time in our department where the doors and windows don't even hang out when we pass through the corridor. We didn't say anything, and I don't want to bring it here, but it's in your knowledge. Still no progress, and I haven't been able to reach him today. Well, it wasn't something I was thinking of saying today, but I want to put it in context: we work, we work until the morning, no problem, but if you sit there, maybe we feel more comfortable, even with the door opening here, we feel how cold it gets. If a friend sits here, in this corner, he feels it very clearly.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0528par0420	Complete.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0532par0421	I mean, we don't just have to think about ourselves, we have to think about the whole community, we have to think about all the employees. Sometimes we do the Joint Counseling Board, why? The next day, officers, friends who work here, so they don't have to work that shift again. So when we're doing a study here, we have to observe and evaluate the situation of all the friends who work in the House, so there's no point in reversing it, in any other sense. I mean, it's a human condition. Let's have one person stand here, look when the door opens... we're having a hard time walking down the hall, it's very cold. Still, it's in your discretion, and we're fine with it, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0528par0423	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Of course, according to the Civil Code, we have to continue, but I'll have to renegotiate with my friends tomorrow about the situation there, which, of course, will have to be done as quickly as possible. After voting the 28th article, we'll have a soup to warm ourselves, and hopefully we'll have one last motion left over the 28th article, and I'll have it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The article of Article 53 (a) of Law Article 2547, replaced with Article 28 (a) of Law Bill 405, which is currently in session, and I propose and propose that the application centre of institutes and institutes be added to its application centre and to the application of independent institutes to come after the declaration of the institute. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We're leaving it up to appreciation, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0533par0435	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit08spe0528par0436	I'm reading the reason: The practice research centre, which has a staff, is the chancellor of discipline of the staff of independent institutes. As with faculty and institutes, the staff of these units should also be a disciplinary director. Matter change is intended to repair this defect. I submit to your votes the motion that I've made him read his motive: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 28th article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-25sit09spe0528par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 405. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In accordance with the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (November 29th 2016) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish you good morning and good weekends.
