tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I'd like to ask the lawmakers to press voting buttons and report that they've been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to access the electronic system during this time are asking for help from technical staff present in the hall, but the members who have not been able to enter the system, to deliver their roll call ballots to the presidency within three minutes through the staff on duty. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first statement outside the agenda belongs to Mersin MP Oktay Özturk (P.S.) who asked for gas in Erdemli district of Mersin Province. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I have been promised to present to the attention of the government a request on behalf of the people of Erdemli by Mr. Mukerrem Bey, our Honourable Mayor of Mersin Province. I salute you all. Erdemli Mersin is a small town in the province of Mersin, 35km away from the city centre, with great value in agriculture, tourism and historically, in the position of the pearl of the Mediterranean, with a promise of hope for the future, with developments in urbanism, social, cultural and economic areas in recent years. Erdemli, who had a population of 50,154 square miles and a hundred square miles [42 km] of the size of the city's capital city, was granted the status of the city's district, along with the Law 6360, so that its population grew to 133,000, while its population grew to 68 times larger, reaching 2.926 square kilometers. The district of Erdemli, which was previously formed in 12 neighborhoods, has 71 neighborhoods, with all villages and 10 closed-down municipalities turning into neighborhoods, with its population rising by more than 500,000 in summer due to sea and history tourism. D-400 is an important link between the Central Mediterranean and the Western Mediterranean Region, which connects the Aegean region and the Mediterranean region from the south. With all these features, it also has a large production share in its strategic position in the Virtuous agricultural sector. It covers 60 per cent of the annual production of lemons in Erdemli Turkey, a major plant in our country and in the world. These aspects and new needs come with them in the city, economic, social, cultural, and tourism potential available for further development. One of these needs is the issue of gas supply. In addition to the need for housing in this area, it is now a necessity for Erdemlilı to have the natural gas supply, which exists in Mezitli, which is bordering Erdemli district, as well as for Erdemli, in regard to the need of the Ecstasy Organised Industry Region (Egyptian Foods), which is now being established as an infrastructure for its establishment. He also has a large share in the righteous greenhouse agriculture. In Erdemli district, the underground vegetable production area is about 35,000 acres. In particular, the idea of providing natural gas, such as in developed countries, in order to make economic production and to increase the cost of growing under cover vegetables and fruit products, has been adopted by all our farmers and interested organizations, and the result is expected with curiosity. In this regard, our town council has unanimously agreed to authorise the mayor to start the work, conduct the business and procedures. Studies carried out by BOTAS still fail to reach the conclusion that our district of Erdemli is not part of the license area of Aksagas Natural Gas Distribution Asş. As we have noted above, natural gas is an important opportunity to increase production and employment in this area by reducing the costs of growing greenhouse agricultural businesses in the county's economy every day, and more than 100,000 of our Erdemli citizens are willing to take advantage of it. On the other hand, the most important need of the Virtue Foods and Agriculture Organised Industry Region, which is still being completed in the event of natural gas coming in, will be taken care of and will also be this employment gate, which could lead to a new economic development in the region. Almost all of our citizens in Erdemli district are demanding natural gas for heating and kitchen consumption and are constantly applied for both local government and subsidiary to meet the need. In the current case, the Mersin-Karaman-Ayranci Natural Gas Pipeline is also a chance and the main route of the line is through Erdemli district. We expect to be extended to Mezitli district (including Mezitli) and to be done with relevant institutions and organisations, particularly the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, to extend the license period and cover Erdemli district if necessary. As we enter the 21st century, this request is not too extravagant, but it is to the attention of our government that I salute all of you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0003par0025	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Silver House MP Cihan Pektaş, who wants to mark the anniversary of Silver House's deliverance from enemy occupation. Here you go, Mr. Pekstone.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0004par0030	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book pledge to mark the 98th anniversary of our Silver House's deliverance from enemy occupation. I hereby salute the High Council. On February 1st, I ask for God's mercy on my friend, Lieutenant Recep Erdogan, and on all our martyrs, who had been killed in the operations against the terrorist organization Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) on February 1st. Because of the wealth of silver and gold mines and its status on the historic Silk Road, the Silver House is a city that has not lost its importance throughout history. When Sultan Mehmet Han of the Conqueror conquered the region in 1461, our ancestors settled in the region, and lived with the Greeks and Armenians for centuries in this city of love, tolerance and peace. In the Mints found in the Silver House, silver and gold coins were printed that provided one-sixth of the Ottoman Empire's treasure. On July 19, 1916, when World War I continued in full violence, the Silverhouse and Torul were occupied by the Russians in our Kelkit district on July 22. In our province, which was occupied by Russia for nearly a year and a half, an all-out battle was fought against the elderly, children, women, men and women, and Torul was rescued from occupation on February 14, the Silverhouse on February 15, 1918, and the Celtic on February 17, 1918. In our province, which connects the eastern Black Sea region to Eastern Anatolia, we see the properties of the sea and the land climate. On one side, we have a very cultured city with a lasso on the other. Although agriculture and animalism are seen in our province, the mining and tourism sector is potentially promising. In recent years, our mines have been run by environmental understanding, and a great job has been created. Our province, which has a great potential for tourism, is essential for culture, pedestrian and economism, as well as skiing tourism. The ancient city of Satala, the ancient city of Santa, the city of Krom, and the monastery of Imera, the castle of Canca, the castle of Kov, the castle of Torul, and the silverhouses are our historic dwellings. The Karaca Cave, called the underground palace of the town of Torul, gives its visitors peace and happiness with its architecture, of course. The Tomara Falls, which is in our district of Shiran, falls from 25 metres [25 m] high, offers a spectacular visual with rich flora around it and, of course, landscapes. The highest firs in the Kurdish district and the tallest linguines of Turkey are the Spider Forests, the Qadırga Yayla, the Kazakbeli Yayla, and the central Taşköru Yayla, which is famous for its natural grass fields, are our natural landscapes. Lake Limni, Artabel Lakes, and the rich flora around it are almost enthralling. The historic Suleymaniye and the planned ski resort, the Zigana Tourism and Ski Centre, have significant potential. Our Silverhouse, a major investment move during the EC PARTY administrations in particular, receives important services in agriculture, transportation, tourism, mining, education and health care. Construction of the Zigana Tunnel, the tallest of Turkey, is about to begin, with the total length of 25,400m by the General Directorate of Highways. Our total tunnel length in the future is 40 miles. Our road projects continue rapidly. With the construction of our airport and our high-speed train project, we will crown transportation services. We've been able to water 100 thousand acres so far with dams, ponds and irrigation projects that we've begun to quicken since 2003, when we've been doing agricultural irrigation in all the ioptidae ways. Our projects are under 1,000 Ponds and Waters in a thousand Days, run by the State Waterworks General Directorate. Hopefully, we'll be able to water all 450,000 of the irrigable land in our province with modern and pressurized irrigation systems. We'll be a leading city in agriculture and livestock. We're launching a cable car project that connects the other side of Nature Park and the city to the nature park. We're rapidly building transportation, rest and social spaces in all of our tourist destinations. We'll be hosting our tourists in the near future. Ahmet Ziyauddin Gümüşhanevi, the capital of the corrupt and corrupt land, is known for its return to the land of the Silver House, the birdburn, the beans, and the Kelkit. As I put an end to my words, I salute the High Council again.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0005par0040	Thank you, Mr. Pekstone. The third unscheduled statement belongs to İstanbul MP Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi, who wants to talk about human rights issues in Turkey. Here you are, Mr. Whitebird Illustration.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0006par0045	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today is the 26th year of the foundation of the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey. Therefore, I would like to draw your attention once again to human rights violations that have become more and more burning in Turkey. I'd like to start by remembering Ilhan Erdost, the brother of Muzaffer Ilhan Erdost, who was beaten to death in Mamak Prison on November 7, 1980, and Tahir Elçi, who we recently lost in a treacherous attack. In the struggle for rights and freedoms, I bow to your memory. The Human Rights Foundation was founded to treat the tortured and rehabilitate their relatives, to heal the wounds of September 12th, which we agreed today that we should change its constitution. Twenty-six years passed, but the foundation failed to complete its mission. Human rights violations have come and gone from those dark days to these days. Yesterday, we called it torture, loss, judicial executions, fair trial, freedom of thought and expression, including violence against women, occupational security, children's workers and refugees who have reached 2.5 million in our territory. Dear Regents, there's no telling where the human rights violation begins and ends in our country. Should I tell you about the violations caused by curfews, the problems brought out by punishment, the independence of the judiciary, freedom of expression, freedom of press, women's murders, child laborers who were illegally employed, the isolation and pressures of F-type prisons, or the drama of 2.5 million Syrians scattered all over Turkey? I know that regardless of our opinion, whatever party we represent, the human rights violations we witness affect us on a certain level. Unfortunately, our tradition of doing politics is limited to taking a bilateral position rather than producing common sense, so we are unable to solve these problems. Recently, the World Freedom Report has been published in 2016. According to this report, Turkey is partially among the free countries, and has been described as one of the countries that declines in terms of freedoms. We are the third country in the European Court of Human Rights, which has the third largest case application for 8,450 cases, and the 823 verdicts in 2015 are 87%) related to our country. Our maximum sentence is a violation of the right to a fair trial. Again, in the face of these violations, punishment has unfortunately become a rule of governance in our country. Those who violate the rights are protected, protected, promoted, as they do not answer to the court. Unfortunately, this has turned into a state tradition that has been handed over from power to power. Every violation that isn't punished invites the next one, hurts our consciences, files our humanity, and refutes our society. Dear Regents, let's all stand together and argue that for no reason can a public official take away human rights from human beings. Let's defend ourselves so we don't run into any new Wishborn events. Tomorrow is the case of Dilek Doğan, who was taken out of his life for no reason. Let's stand next to the family of a young girl whose life rights have been taken from her. What happened to the Doğan family today is possible for us and our loved ones to happen tomorrow. As you know, there has been a process in Turkey for many years in violations of human rights and violations of freedom of expression. Unfortunately, we have no right to freedom of speech today, as well as freedom of political criticism. More than 30 journalists are under arrest. On the other hand, our women are in a great deal of violence. In 2015, 303 women lost their lives; in January, they found 36. Unfortunately, we still have not been able to remove the law, which is called "Aggression" - the symbol of violence against women - which has touched all of us deeply. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have a minute?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0007par0058	Here, finish your words. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0006par0060	With the amendment to the Penal Code, we would like to remove the good behavior and incentive reductions given to the defendants. It's too bad we can't even solve the problem of women above parties. Another thing is the human right to live. We say it's business accidents. 1,730 of our workers died last year. As a result, dear Regents, even though we can't eliminate all this negativity today, we have a chance to minimize it. That's the way I care about the Bill of Law on Human Rights and Equality in Turkey, where we're going to start meeting at the Human Rights Review Commission tomorrow. With the contributions of all parties, I salute the entire General Assembly in hopes of getting a law against rights violations out of here.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0008par0065	Thank you, Mr. Whitebird Illustration. Members of parliament, on behalf of the government, there is a request for a statement in accordance with Article 59 of the Civil Code on the developments in the Syrian context of Ismet Yılmaz. I will grant the Minister's request. After the Minister's statement, I'll make a promise to political party groups at their request. Their talking time is 20 minutes for the government, ten for political party groups. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0009par0071	Mr. President, I have made a promise to inform the High Assembly of the developments in Syria and the latest situation in the political process. I hereby salute the High Council. Mr. President, members of parliament, our country has been on the side of the Syrian people since the beginning of the events in Syria. In this framework, he also argued that the problem should be resolved politically and that it should be done accordingly on every platform. One of these platforms is a meeting held in Vienna. In October, we accelerated the political process through Vienna meetings. In December of last year, UN Security Council Resolution 2254 was adopted by a unanimous vote. The adopted decision called for an urgent truce in Syria, and for a political solution to the country. Indirect talks were launched on 29 January, according to the agreed decision. Due to the obstruction at the beginning of the talks, talks were held until February 3rd with the initiative of the United Nations Secretary-General Staffan de Mistura, which was set as a February 25th target for the next round. This short first round shows that the minimum partners needed to negotiate between the parties have not yet been formed. Our first assessment at this stage is that there are more problems and actors, compared to the process that brought the parties together in 2014. Russia was also added to the conflicting groups in the field. This additional factor has made the current process even more complicated. Our Foreign Minister, Mr. Mevlüt Sergeyoglu, attended a meeting of the International Syrian Support Group, held in Munich last week. During the talks here, our country's approach has been passed on to all sides once again, and our sensitivity to the PYD/YPG has been explained. While providing humanitarian assistance was set up, it was stressed that the needs of civilian citizens should be looked after, not by the regime. At the end of the meeting in Munich, the need to halt the conflict to reopen the political process and provide human access to surrounding areas has been repeated, and for that, two working groups have been formed. As a result of the Munich meeting, it was first accepted that the Russians would stop air strikes, the regime would lift sieges and complete human access to these places. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have launched more than 7,200 air strikes from September 30, 2015, when they began their military operation in Russia. 88 per cent of this has targeted opponents and civilians, while the remaining 12 per cent have been committed against DEASH. The attacks against DEAŞ have no concrete effect on the field. On the contrary, it has made the work of DEASH easy, and it has opened up additional space for it. Russia continues to target its opponents and civilians in Aleppo, Lazkiye, Damascus, Idlip, Hama, Humus, and Dera every day. Russia, which is now in Syria with about 5,000 soldiers today, is not only from the air, but from the warships in the Caspian Sea and the Mediterranean, fueling the fire in Syria, deepening the civil war, leading to a dangerous climb in the region. As a matter of fact, while we were trying to pave the way for negotiations in Geneva, the regime and Russia took a comprehensive action against opponents in the area in order to surround Aleppo (Russian) from the north. Under heavy air support from Russia, regime forces cut off the road north of Aleppo-Azez. These developments followed co-directed attacks by Russia's co-conspirators and the regime's PYD/YPG. These attacks are still going on. In the last 24 hours alone, the Russians attacked a hospital run by two schools in Azez (Azez) and one hospital and the Idlip-Maarat (Adlip) Doctors Without Borders Organization in El Numan. Over 30 percent of the innocent civilians, including women and children, have lost their lives, and over 100 are reportedly injured. I'd like to make it clear that these serious attacks are also a war crime. I would like to point out that the attacks of Russia and the regime against the opposition have been focused on the process of negotiations in Geneva. At the beginning of February, the corridor of opposition connecting the north of Aleppo (Aleppo) to our regions of the Church was closed, and the humanitarian flows to Aleppo (Aleppo) and to the south stopped. Tens of thousands of people who have escaped from these attacks and intense conflicts have moved towards our border. We've taken every precaution on the other side of the border for them. We've accepted the critical ones into our country. With heavy air support from Russia, which pursues a military solution in Syria, we can face a new, much larger wave of mass migration from Aleppo in the coming period of the regime's complete siege of downtown Aleppo. We believe the Russian side and the regime are using this human tragedy as a weapon to put our country and Europe in a difficult position. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the NYD/YPG, sees the situation facing the opposition on the field as an opportunity. For some time now, the Afrin-Azez line has increased its attacks on the territory controlled by the opposition with the support of the air force and ammunition of Russia. We've warned the PYD/YPG many times. Finally, they again took control of Minak Air Base near Azez, which is co-directed by Russia and the regime, and yesterday they attacked Tel Rifat and Cafarnaya in southern Azez, knowing that the opposition had a strong conflict with the regime. Azez is right near our border. YPG's attacks on Azez (Azez) and its environment further increase the flood of refugees. To those who do not accept this organization as terrorists, it is important to ask: What does the PYD/YPG offer in this area where there is no DEASH, where Arab and Turkmen live? Whose subcontractor is he? Who's he trying to hit on behalf of the opposition's case?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0010par0080	El Nusrayah, Ahrar-ush Damascusa!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0009par0081	Russia and the regime are taking advantage of the activities of the PYD/YPG, and the PYD/YPG has nothing to do with the opposition bloc, Russia has turned into a pawn in the region, which everyone must see. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, our artillery have been targeting YPG targets since February 13th, under our rules of engagement. This is not an attitude toward Kurds living in the region, we are their protectors and their patrons. The world knows we show it not by words but by actions. When Aleppoçe was attacked by chemical weapons, we were the ones who accepted about 500,000 Iraqi Kurdish brothers. While 28 European countries cannot agree on the sharing of 121 refugees, we are the ones who have invited about 200,000 Kurdish brothers into our country within three days of Kobani's occupation. God forbid, when there is a need tomorrow, we will give the same support to all our brothers and sisters who live in this geography without making any distinction, and no one will doubt it. It's important to know that our attitude has a perfectly legitimate basis. First of all, Turkey takes every precaution to protect its own safety; it takes it against the DEAŞ; it takes it against other terrorist elements. Developments in Syria next to our border are a matter of national security for Turkey. Therefore, we will take every precaution necessary for the safety of our country, our people, and we will take all necessary measures without hesitation. It is in our eyes that PYD-YPG shuts down the south of our border to the opposition's access, moves to the west of Fırat, where it is supposed to be a corridor facility, or attacks against Afrin (Afrin) to Azez territory. This situation cannot be tolerated. We've informed the Allied countries of the latest developments. Mr. Prime Minister has met with US Vice President Biden and Chancellor Merkel, Mr. Foreign Minister has discussed the issue with British and French, and I have addressed the views of Turkey to our allies on the occasion of the NATO Defence Ministers' Meeting. We have to prevent the human situation from getting worse, preventing refugee raids, provide border security, and show that we are with the opposition, the true representative of the Syrian people. This is the greatest contribution to the peace process in Syria. We are among the strongest advocates of finding a political solution to the conflict in Syria. We will continue our efforts to ensure that improvements, opposition, and the legitimate expectations of the Syrian people. And in doing so, we will never compromise our fight against terrorism. We'll eliminate all kinds of terror. We will respond to the unity and integrity of this country with every threat. We are aware of the duty we have received from our great nation, and we will carry out our full responsibility. As I end my words, I want our dear nation to be sure that Turkey does not want a war. We want peace to be fundamental in our region and in our world, and we work in that direction. But if it's the rights and the law of this saintly nation, I'd also like to make it known that we will not hesitate for a moment to take any steps necessary to protect it, and I will salute the High Assembly once again.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0011par0088	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, I will meet the commitment demands of political party groups. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Umit Özdağ is a member of Gaziantep. Here you are, Mr. Özdağ. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0012par0094	Mr. President, we're going through the days when the concept of World War III was brought up by the Russian Prime Minister, not by strategists, screenwriters or brainstorming intellectuals. Moreover, the Russian Prime Minister talks about the United States, Turkey and Saudi Arabia, as countries that could prevent the third world war. National Defence Minister Mr. Ismet Yilmaz assessed the possible developments in Syria. We would very much like to relax based on these predictions, but Mr. Yasar Yakış, who had been in the Cabinet before him and who had long represented AKP foreign policy, recently explained that the developments in Syria would cause us to lose Hatay. Meanwhile, Mr. Davutoglu was Foreign Minister, and in a statement in August 2012, he said the war would be over in a few months. In short, when we look at the AKP government's foreign ministers, his statements do not give us confidence in the future, and we intend to ask some questions. The first question we're going to ask the AKP government is about the overthrow of the AKP government's main target of Syrian policy, Assad. Minister, when Assad falls, will the civil war end in Syria, or will the second phase of the war begin in Damascus to take power after Assad's fall? If you think the civil war will end with Assad's overthrow, the civil war will still end in Syria in a few months, and we will pray Friday at Emevi Mosque in Damascus. We will know that you are at the point of the government. Sadly, we cannot pray Friday in Damascus, but we pray for the funeral of the martyrs caused by the Syrian civil war. Of course, we also have some questions about the P.Y.D. terrorist organization. Does Turkey have allies in Syria? If the United States and Turkey are allies, why does the United States condemn our operations against the US-backed PYD (USO) who attacked Turkey and the US-backed PYD? The NYD and its armed wing, which Turkey has known as a terrorist organisation, are clearly providing support for the US weapons, ammunition, medicine, and so on. The authorities of the United States agree. What role does Figrlik Base have in supporting the PYD? A journalist close to power, İbrahim Karagül, asked the question, "Ibrahim Karagül is being directed by the New Dawn newspaper from İncirlik (PYD)? How do you intend to prevent US aid from İncirlik to NYD? If our ally, the United States, is aiding a structure known to Turkey as a terrorist organization using our territory, aren't we aiding this terrorist organization? How many times in the last five years have you met with the PKK, which has been part of the KCK, and therefore should have been considered a terrorist organization? If the PYD is a terrorist organization, what did you discuss with PYD Co-Chair Salih Müslim (PYD) who visited Turkey in October 2014, July 2015 and October 2015? Can you share the minutes of these talks with the House? Has there been a co-ordinating on the transfer of Suleiman Shah Turbage? Did the PYD people lead the Turkish tanks? Did the PYD receive a payment of $150,000? Why did you intervene in the interests of the PYD while conflicts continued between the PYD and ISIS in Ayn Al-Arab? Why did you allow PKK and PYD people to receive treatment in Turkey? Why did you allow the Barzani forces to help PKK/PYD terror organization through Turkey in violation of the Constitution of Iraq and the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey and against the spirit of TBMM? Mr. Erdoğan, I offered Obama a statement from him to help PYD. Why did Turkey help what he described as a terrorist? Prime Minister Davutoglu, at AKP's Diyarbakır district congress, why do I salute the PKK and the PYD people in Ayn Al-Arabah (PYD) from here? I kiss every brother in Kobani. Kobani sends us greetings from history. Mr. Davutoglu should know that there is no place on any map other than the PKK maps called Kobani. The Ottoman maps contain the Ayn Al-Arabal, the Arabian Fountain, which means the legacy of history is not Kobani. The second dimension of our questions raises questions about the cross-border operation we directed to the Minister and the government. What is the strategic goal of Turkey's limited action on cross-border targets? We won't let the YPG pass to the west of Firat. You say. Who's in control of the Agency dam right now? Wasn't the Teşrin Dam occupied by the Syrian Democratic Forces, the PYD, which changed its name after the AKP declared it to be a red line to the west of Fırat? Mr. Secretary, the AKP government and you're just making promises and denying the field facts. Today, what do you do besides produce rhetoric when YPG is breaking down both the Kurdish mountain -- west of the frigate -- through the Teshir Dam and with the Syrian army? Do you think you've deterred the PYD and its partners by firing at Turkey's targets across the border? After the TSK began to hit targets belonging to the PYD, Ayn Dagne, Maarnaz, Kfar Naya and Tel Rifat, in the north of Aleppo, and on the Kurdish mountain. There's a good chance Mare will fall in a few days. Do you still think Turkey's cross-border operations have succeeded? If one of the reasons why the YPG was shot was the rescue of Turkmen villages, why did you allow Cobanbey to fall into the hands of ISIS in February 2014 and fall into the hands of Bayır Bucak in January 2015? Then why didn't you operate? What armed groups is Turkey helping in Syria? What are the benefits? You say you're aiding the Turkmen with weapons. If that's true, the Turkmen shouldn't need guns. However, it was expressed by state officials that the Turkmen needed weapons for a high-ranking National Movement Party delegation I was involved with. We understand the sensitivity of the region between Cerablus-Azez to avoid being invaded by PKK/PYD gangs as the Nationalist Movement Party. Why don't you show the same sensitivity for our 16 men in the Aegean, occupied by the Greek army? You yourself said these islands were occupied. If we intervene in Syria with our ground forces, would it be possible for the Turkish Air Force to provide air protection for armored troops and infantry troops to enter without paying a heavy price for Russian air defence systems? As a result, the National Movement Party strongly and decisively warns the AKP's government not to bring Turkey into the Syrian civil war with military intervention. Such an intervention will carry the Syrian civil war to Turkey in a stronger way. Dear lawmakers will raise questions about immigrants from Syria about the fourth dimension of our questions to the AKP government and Mr. Minister. Davutoglu explained that if there were 100,000 refugees from Syria, they should be met in Syria, except Turkey. Turkey's number of refugees exceeded 100,000 times that of the red line, which Davutoglu said. Now, in the face of the last wave of migration, the President used the expression, "Are we fools?" The question is, what number do you take as a measure to be considered a sucker? How many refugees are we gonna be suckered with? Members of parliament, the National Movement Party predicts developments in the region will trigger terrorist dynamics within Turkey. Basically, information from security forces and intelligence agencies confirms this prediction. The AKP government is still treating the situation as normal when Turkey is living in a city conflict on the brink of civil war. On the other hand, the President explained to the teachers that Southeast Asia Minor would have to be re-embarrassed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me for a moment, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0013par0125	Mr. Özdağ, I'm going to turn on the microphone to complete your statement.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0012par0126	MHP was your home when you left Southeast Anatolia. When have you ever lost, and now you're trying to make it a homeland again? [[(Bravo) The voices, applauding from the MHP rows]] Did you know that there is a separate search warrant for each house in Cizre? Minister, there has been a separate search warrant for each house in Cizre. It should now be declared a state of emergency or martial law. No wonder a government who doesn't take these steps declares a partial mobilization one day. In addition, the AKP government must reconstitute its Covenant Review Boards as soon as possible. The state of the Republic of Turkey must prepare itself for extraordinary conditions. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0014par0131	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Hişyar Özsoy is an MP in Bingol. Here you go, Mr. Ozsoy. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0015par0136	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Of course, it's a little bit of a thought that the Middle East was made by the Minister of Defence when they discussed Syria. Personally, I don't have the knowledge to get into the technical, military dimensions of this kind of thing. The Minister of Defence gave a speech in this framework, but we're actually expecting a clear statement from our Foreign Minister about foreign policy towards Syria. And I'm going to make a brief speech today in Turkey's foreign policy...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0016par0138	Let him do it again.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0017par0139	He was ten minutes short.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0015par0140	They were ten minutes short, they didn't use it, so maybe they can shed some light on what's going on. In my speech today, I will briefly propose a number of criticisms of Turkey's truly bankrupt Middle East and Syrian policy and a way out as a HDP Group. Now, we've expressed it many times before on this stand. The most fundamental wrong in Turkey's Syrian policy -- we say it again, we point out -- is the anti-Kurdish opposition there. There's no point in turning this around. Look, there was a statement from the President the other day about the Iraqi Kurds, who had regional government thirteen years ago, who said: "We will not make the same mistake in Syria, we will not repeat the same mistake we made in Iraq. The mistake made in Iraq was that the Kurds there met with a regional government and political status. Look, Mr. Barzani himself had invited him to the AK PARTY convention before, didn't he? Look, when it comes to Turkey, it's received at the highest level by the prime minister, by the presidency, but despite all of that, we're talking about a logic that still hasn't absorbed the situation of the Kurds in Syria, the political status of the Kurds in Iraq. This does not only put Turkey in a difficult position in Middle East politics, in Middle Eastern politics, but also makes the Kurds living in Turkey seriously anxious, anxious. Now, Mr. Secretary, in his speech, of course, this has tried to explain Turkey's recent partial military intervention towards Syria with a number of human concerns, the situation of refugees, border security, but we don't see that very well. Of course, we all see that all the peoples living in Syria are in a very serious tragedy, and there are certain things that need to be done about it, including a humanitarian corridor, of course. Again, we are also aware of the pressure that refugees put on Turkey, Turkey is putting Turkey in serious difficulty. We regret to express that Syria is using refugees as a card against the world, against Europe, but we also regret that Turkey is taking refugees from a place that is not only human, and using them as a foreign policy card. Keeping the issue of refugees out of politics, approaching the issue in a human way, approaching it in a human way... In this regard, yes, there is the hypocrisy of the world; yes, Europe, America, no country has helped Turkey with the pressure of this refugee crisis, but we think Turkey should not use this refugee card to open space for its foreign policy in the Middle East. The AKP government's policy in Syria is getting tighter every day, my friends. So, there's no harm in admitting the mistake, so maybe we can get another position at the point we're at. Look, before the November 1st elections, remember what AKP's basic promise was. Both internal and external stability. Wasn't it? In the November 1st election, when people went to the polls, yes, if the AK PARTY was alone in power, the pressure would decrease both inside and outside, perhaps the country would be at peace, and the country would have some stability. After the November 1st elections, an increasingly violent war, a fighting situation, more than a thousand deaths, nearly 500 civilians, nearly 500, according to our data, have died, died, been massacred, and on the other hand, Turkey's adventures in Iraq, Syria. We spoke here when they sent troops to Başika. Now, look, there's an attack on the YPGs around Azez or the structures they're building as Syrian Democratic Forces, and the excuse is actually funny. Look, you've been kicked out of there, they call it Turkey, don't they? Yeah, I don't know, technically, but it doesn't make much sense to me, we have officers here. I really don't know if it's possible to get a mortar from there to Turkey. Look, they come out and explain. So far, there's not a single attack from YPG to Turkey, and they're saying it. Remember after Tel Abyad fell, Turkey had attacks on the YPG again, the YPG acted cool, did well, didn't answer that, and now it doesn't answer. He's acting in some way responsible before things get too complicated, that's how we understand the situation. As soon as Turkey is connected with the Syrian Kurds, we think it's extremely dangerous. Look, it's impossible to get results from this angle. They hit with obuses, they hit left and right, but the practical situation is that at first, the U.S., the United Nations, maybe forced a military intervention through NATO, Turkey, but it's all alone in all this, all these doors are now closed. Now, he took Saudi Arabia with him, which is particularly interesting. I guess the planes are either here or they're coming, right?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0018par0147	That's right.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0015par0148	The planes are coming. It's a beautiful friend of his in Saudi Arabia, Turkey. Every time we talk about this Saudi Arabia issue, we're going to talk about Egypt, we're going to talk about Rabia, we're going to talk about the massacre of the Muslim Brothers, we're going to talk about the support of the Saudi brothers, we're going to talk about the Suud. The Muslim brothers, all the people who died in Egypt, in those squares, are now literally inverted in their graves. Mursi thinks deeply about what Turkey is doing. Now, what is Turkey trying to do? Turkey was pushed out of Iraq and Syria because of its own mistakes, a jet crisis opened Syria to Russia's military intervention. Yes, it's true, Russia is now throwing up blood on behalf of Turkey in Syria, and in doing so, frankly, it's not civil segregation, we're cursing it because of its civil massacres, and we're saying it clearly. However, Mr. Minister, let us also say that you have rightly condemned the situation for civilians who died in Syria, and that hundreds of civilians have been massacred according to our data, and we expect at least one regret to be expressed in this regard. We don't see the situation very differently, the data we have -- people we know, photographs -- shows that hundreds of civilians were murdered in our geography, and we expect the same sensitivity in this regard. Now -- let me close, I'm running out of time -- Turkey wants to increase military tension, find a position in the diplomatic area, return to the Iraqi and Syrian tables again. We say, "Look, this is a difficult, difficult road, and it's a very easy one. Let's reboot the process of resolving Turkey and re-establishing friendly relations with the Kurds in Syria and also with the Kurds in Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and our friendly relations with the Kurds in Syria...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0019par0154	Mr. Ozoy, I'm going to turn on the microphone to complete your statement.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0015par0155	Thank you. With the Kurds in Syria, we believe that relations with the PYD, which you call terrorists, should be rebooted, deepened. As HDP, we say that the easiest, safest, most bloodless way for Turkey to get a new position in the Middle East, Syria, Iraq is to redesign its relations with Kurds. Despite all attacks, despite being constantly terrorized by Turkey, the same point is that we still want to be friends with Turkey, we don't want to be enemies with Turkey. They say, they say, they say, take this to the fort, take this seriously. As you know, the suspension of the peace process in Turkey is also very much associated with the developments in Syria, so it is not possible to solve this issue with tanks and cannons on the inside, in Cizre, in Silopi, in Sur. Today goes and comes tomorrow, and when spring comes, things can get a lot more complicated, and you all know it. So quickly, before it's too late, before more blood is spilled, let's try to accelerate the peace process in Turkey, as well as Turkey's peaceful relations with the Kurds in Syria. In both of these cases, we, the HDP, re-enact the peace process and re-establish all of our roles in order for the positive arrangement of relations between the Kurds in Syria and Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0020par0159	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Özturk Yilmaz, Ardahan MP. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0021par0164	Mr. President, we've all heard the briefing given by our National Secretary of Defense. I wish it were longer, Mr. Secretary, if it were more specific, because there are questions. Mr. Secretary of State is here, so maybe we'd appreciate it if you'd like to use that ten minutes. Now, as a matter of fact, we all see that Syria is at a standstill right now. The issue of Syria initially began as a problem between Assad and the opposition, the first phase. We had a period of what we call the second phase of the power of attorney, a long period of about three years, and finally, when Russia began bombing, the countries that gave power of attorney began to land directly in the area. That's where it all changed. Now, Turkey has been allied with the United States for a very long time, but the United States unfortunately doesn't see Turkey as being an ally. In recent statements, it is also thought to put the PYD and Turkey in the same position. Russia, on the other hand, has opened up an area that has had a major impact on the land since it began bombing, with consequences. Assad was dying, and Assad had resurrected Assad, and now Assad wants to make it possible for him to control the country again. Yes, it is true that the United States of America disagrees with us on this matter, at least not now. It is also true that Russia tried to invade Syria and did a great injustice in Syria, both with the Mediterranean airspace and with some of its educational troops on land. It is true that there are refugees in Turkey, that Europeans and other countries do not look at them. It's all true. So, what's causing this crisis, who's causing it? Isn't that what brought this crisis here? Didn't we know that Syria would come to this point when we changed such dynamics in a place where there was barely control on a slippery ground like Syria, where there was a different religious structure, where the ethnic structure was different? Therefore, we are the creators of this crisis. Why did this crisis come to this? We're discussing the consequences. We are told: "Should we not look at the refugees? " No one tells us to look at you. Of course, it is the bombing of Russia, killing people, and condemning them. The PYD is expanding the corridor, shouldn't we object? Of course, let's go. Let's do all of this, but it's all a result, not a cause. We're discussing the results, we've forgotten the reasons, we want to get to a point with the results, and we blame each other. This is a matter of Turkey's national security. As of the coming stage, Turkey is almost driven into the war, step by step, step by step, to that point. We, in fact, wanted the government to give information to the Parliament, which was provided today; thank you, that's important. On other matters, I wish you'd do this without us asking, thank you. Because it's the issue of all of us, there's no power here, there's no opposition here, it's the issue of Turkey's safety. In case of attack on Turkey from anywhere, the rules of engagement are in the form of self-defense, we are completely against it; do not hesitate here. But, we're discussing something else here: we're discussing Turkey's involvement in the civil war in Syria, one step at a time; that's the issue. Now, at this point, I'd like to consider some things, some things together. One, if we're involved in such an intervention, is there an element in the field that supports us? Who's gonna back us up? The opponents are gone. Oppositions control half if half of Aleppo falls. Aleppo falls, an Idlip remains in the hands of the opponents. The opponents are on the run. Assad will help us, ISIS will help us, and the PYD will help us? It is absolutely necessary to avoid the steps that will lead Turkey to such a dark place. Intervention outside the border. Turkey is trapped only between Azez and Kilis in the Syrian equation, a region 40km deep. There's no more space. Turkey has been compressed, and from there, the area expansion of the PYD is completely excluded from the Syrian painting by Russia's air bombing, as well as diplomatic outcasts, and now military outcasts; it must be detected once and for all. Now, there's got to be another self-criticism. Sir, this red line if it crosses the west side of Fırat. Why is Azez so important? Because there's a corridor, humanitarian aid goes to opponents, goes to the people there; okay, we get that. Well, I just want to identify a theoretical error. Red line to the west of Fırat. Well, isn't that a red line to the east? If he goes east of Afrin, the red line is good. But isn't it a threat to stay in Afrin, if we go with that understanding? I mean, there's a contradiction here. We can't take this contradiction on two different axes, we need to fit it in. Two, how long is our Syrian border? 911 kilometers -- if I remember correctly -- almost 650 percent of this is under the control of the PYD. The bombing of Russia began four months ago, so why didn't we intervene before that? Why didn't we intervene if we were there with this sensitivity? I mean, does Azez have to be so critical? There's a contradiction here, too. Here's another thing:
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0022par0174	Before that, he was in ISIS, ISIS. You can't be bothered by ISIS!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0021par0175	Excuse me. Now, Russia has a strategy. What does Russia want to do? As far as we can see, Russia wants to wipe out the opposition first, push them out of Syria. Good... What's phase two? What does he mean by that? To the international community? Are you on the side of Assad, or are you on the side of ISIS? Such a possibility arises, and Turkey loses its thesis completely here. Syrian policy has indeed collapsed. We're not saying this as a criticism anymore, it's a fact that this has nothing to do with criticism. We need to fix things. Another thing: Now, we need to make some more status assessments. What caused the change of policy in the United States of America, when for such a long period of time Assad had put the priority of sending Assad (Assad) on the agenda, why did he suddenly change that priority, and put the fight against ISIS forward? Look, the United States of America, unfortunately, is our ally, but it's not standing behind us. This needs to be detected, too. As Russia does not stand behind us, we need to know that Iran is at least psychologically conflicting with Turkey on the land. In such a case, we act with Saudi Arabia and Qatar. If Saudi Arabia had power, he would have used it in Yemen, and he would have had results. He did, but what happened? Today Yemen was torn to pieces. If we're going after Saudi Arabia, or we're going to act with it, we're going to act with Qatar, and we're going to shape something in the region, we're wrong here. We need to stay out of this for once. In Syria, well, that's criticism, but what do you think? For one thing, first of all, we prefer the diplomatic solution. The Syrian problem has no way out except for diplomatic solutions, no military solutions, no continuous field gains. At this rate, civil war and continuous land change and a process that opens the door to the control of the land by different groups. So, what do we want in Syria? The end of the civil war. With this diplomatic solution... we must stop the ceasefire... the sovereignty of Syria... and the protection of territorial integrity. Terrorist organisations should have no place in the future of Syria, nor should they be on the table. The Syrian people must decide the future of Syria, and no other force must decide. All countries that use military power there, especially Russia, must leave Syria. The rights of all the peoples in Syria must be guaranteed by the constitution. On our border, we must oppose any formation that is directed at us or against the territorial integrity of Syria. We must work to make Syria a secular and democratic country. We have to make an effort. And in the end, he came to Turkey...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0023par0183	I'll turn on your microphone. Finish your words, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0021par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. And we want the Syrian refugees who came to Turkey, settled, fled from the war, to return to their homeland after peace has been restored. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0024par0188	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. The last request for political party groups belongs to Talip Küçükcan, Adana MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Littlecan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0025par0193	Mr. President, I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary for his information. I will try to share with you the opinion of the EC PARTY on the matter. The discussion of Turkey's foreign policy agenda, which concerns Turkey closely, has come upon the anniversary of a crucial and crucial agreement, lawmakers. The fact that our debates are on days that coincide with the 100th year of the Sykes-Picot Agreement, which has built the historical background of the regional problems we face today, indicates that it is more meaningful and important to evaluate the developments on the agenda with a historical perspective. The Ottoman balance began 100 years ago, but its effects continue. A second Sykes-Picot plan is being implemented in everyone's mind these days? Because we all see and witness that Syria is being tried to divide Syria into small states based on ethnic and religious foundations that threaten the territorial integrity of Syria. Dear lawmakers, the problems faced today are impossible to explain and avoid with the concept of a new Oriental swamp, a new orientist rhetoric. In this region, especially Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, ethnitism, religion, sectarian strict seculism, secularism and secularism have been the basis of politics and state. While multicultural, multi-religious, multiethnic, multiethnic, political balances have been established in the region, in place of representation and participation in governance on the basis of democratic and equal citizenship, which are dominated by coup and authoritarian regimes. This is exactly what Arab revolutions have emerged as a rebellion against this legacy - democracy, human rights, the pursuit of equal citizenship. Dear lawmakers, I would like to briefly summarize Turkey's view of Syria during the EC PARTY period. Turkey adopted a principled attitude when the Arab Spring began from North Africa and reached the depths of the Middle East and Syria. It was the support of the demands for democracy, human rights, equal citizenship and representation. Let's remember that at the beginning of the Arab revolution, many countries first remained silent in surprise. But later they saw that social dynamics had the power to change the status quo, so they supported this Arab Spring. But when it became clear that the regional effects of Arab awakening were deeper and more widespread than predicted, the process was ended or at least stopped by a coup in Egypt. As he supported democratic social demands in Turkey, Tunisia, Egypt and Libya, he also supported social demands in Syria and held long talks with the Esed regime for a peaceful transition. I'd like to underline that. However, the regime's reckless disregard for legitimate social and political demands and brutal suppression of opponents have led to Turkey's goodwill initiatives ineffective. See, now, in Syria, the crisis has deepened and flourished, as the internal conflicts have begun, and the elements outside the country -- including Iran, Hezbollah, DEAS and Russia. At the coming point today, as Mr. Minister explained, more than 300,000 people have lost their lives, more than 6 million refugees have left the country in Syria, who have had to flee from the settlement within the country and have had to emigrate to 60-65 per cent of the population of Syria (21 million people); so, democratically, there has been a serious change, and the ethnic and religious structure of cities has changed radically. We now feel it is unfair to hold Turkey responsible for this structure. Dear MPs, Turkey's policy on Syria has been clear since 2011, when the crisis began. Turkey has sided with rights, rights, suffering, and innocents; it has made a special effort in Syria to ensure a non-conflict transition to governance to support democratic demands of political and social groups. Turkey has taken special interest in the protection of Syrian territorial integrity, so let us express it. So we've always said today that the division of Syria is the most dangerous for Turkey. Therefore, we have a serious objection to what Mr. CHP has told us. We're the cause of the crisis. He said, "Turkey." As we have just said, the cause of the crisis is not Turkey, but the geopolitical and geostrategic vacuum that has occurred in this region since the invasion of Iraq. Let's not forget, Turkey has worked hard to achieve a non-conflict transition and has always supported and still given support to attempts to achieve social consensus in this sense. The Arab League, the Islamic Co-operation Agency, the United Nations initiatives, Geneva 1-2 and then they'll come back, and they'll all back up after that. So, Turkey is pushing all limits of diplomacy, and of course we agree with CHP law enforcement on the use of all limits and resources of diplomacy. I wish the situation could be avoided as easily as he said it would be, if it could come out when I told Russia to go out or when I told Iran to go out, but reality stands out in a very different way. That's why we need to keep up with this process. Why did this happen? We feel that blaming Turkey is of no use. During this period, a very serious geopolitical and geostrategic gap occurred in this region since the 2003 invasion of Iraq. In fact, the crisis in Mosul is part of the gap, where the minister has seen and experienced an event very closely, where the DAEŞ has come to take advantage of this gap. Those who wanted to destabilise regional stability by taking advantage of the geopolitical and geostrategic gap in question appeared to support the division of Syria, and the establishment of satellite states at our border, and Turkey is completely against it. That's what intervention with the PYD is all about. The PYD/YPG, which is clearly supported by both Damascus and Moscow, is either an organization or an actor who is collaborating with Syria and Russia. In the same way, the DAIH continues its spread in Syria, and Iran and Hezbollah strive to expand its influence fields by seeing the geopolitical and geostrategic gap in Syria as an opportunity. Precious lawmakers are terrorist organisations that threaten the regional stability of PKK, DAİŞ, NYD Turkey, and must be fought to the end from the point of view of the EC PARTI. That is exactly what Turkey is doing. Turkey is one of the first countries to define the EPA as a terrorist organization, which has joined the International Coalition and continues to support it. The PYD is also a terrorist organization for Turkey, but we see that some of our MPs are opposed to the fact that the PYD is considered a terrorist organization, so let's not confuse ourselves with the PYD, it's not a terrorist organization. They're using political rhetoric in a way. Let's put it this way, for lawmakers who have doubts or have no knowledge, the PYD is defined by a court order as a terrorist organization. That's why I'm saying this before.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0026par0203	What court?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0025par0204	Mardin has been arrested for being a member of the YPG in Mardin province. The High Criminal Court has ruled that the PYD and YPG are a terrorist organization, which is useful to state here. Dear lawmakers, claiming that the PYD is not a terrorist organization, calling on the PYD to keep us in touch with it, using a political rhetoric that reflects the PYD as a legitimate organisation means that it does not recognise the courts and judicial decisions of the Republic of Turkey. It can't be considered to be considered a terrorist organization known as the PKK's organic and political relations with the PKK, such a thing is not politically acceptable. Russia, Damascus administration, and some Western countries in the fight against DİHHH are not allowed to support the PYD (PYD), use it as a legion, to impose their own agendas in this way, and cannot be allowed to close the territory, under the name of dealing with the EPD; it cannot be tolerated by the activities that threaten Turkey's border security. The PYD's Azez moves have made it necessary and necessary to intervene in terms of the risk of creating a new wave of migration and security. Just as Turkey is interested in Mosul (Musul) and as much as it is in Aleppo (Aleppo) and Azez (Azez), Turkey's security begins much further and further than its own border. Because we've seen it in the past, we've seen it today. Even with demographic change, you can threaten the security of neighbouring countries, you can destabilise them. Turkey will not be able to tolerate this. At this point, we must also state that Turkey's intervention is intended to be made to look like it was done against the Syrian Kurds. In part, it was included in the statement of the HDP MP, who stated that Turkey's Syrian policy was nothing more than opposition to Kurds. However, the confusion and confusion in Syria are much different. Let's put it this way: if the status is equality, if it is justice, if it is human rights, if it is identity, if it is citizenship, Turkey has already done its part in Syria. The regime had long -- you know -- talks on these issues to give identity to our Kurdish brothers in Syria, to be considered equal citizens. We, historically, as cultural friends, have lived together in this geography with us Turks, Kurds, Arabs, and we want to live together. Therefore, there must and must be a solution to conflicts. But let's put it this way: Syria and Cizre are all wrong; it's historically wrong and it doesn't apply to the facts. Turkey is a struggle against an organization that has taken away people and society's freedom of trade, education, worship. In Syria, it was a rebellion of the people, and so it began, and it took on different dimensions. Yes, we must certainly support diplomatic initiatives, we have no problem with that, but we must also state that we must use our legitimate right to defend ourselves to eliminate all threats to Turkey, and we must not hesitate to use them. This is never a declaration of war. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0027par0212	Thank you, Mr. Littlecan.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0028par0213	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0027par0214	The Minister has a request for a statement.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0028par0215	Okay, here you go. After that...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0027par0216	Come in, Mr. Secretary, I'm listening, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0029par0217	Mr. President, part of the speakers have attributed a different opinion to the government than we have suggested. What's one of these? (PYD) was given money. It was co-operated with the PYD. As with the operation of Süleyman Shah, another orator, who defended the territorial integrity of Syria, as if we, the government, were not defending it. So I'd like to answer to the unwarranted explanations made by the orator according to 69.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0027par0218	Congressmans, we're discussing an important matter. The government has informed the General Assembly of the developments in the Syrian context. The government used the government's twenty-minute speech time as ten minutes. On the other hand, political party groups had ten minutes to talk. Due to the importance of the issue, we have continued this practice in a flexible manner today, considering the facts, and we have given additional commitment requests to all political party groups. If the government had asked for an additional twenty minutes, I would have met it. On the other hand, according to Article 69, the Minister is demanding a statement due to a different opinion of the government, which is different from the one he proposed and the one he proposed. Here you are, Minister, according to Article 69, I give you my word. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0030par0225	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, the operation of Solomon Shah did not co-operate with the PYD. All relevant parties have been briefed, including the NYD.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0031par0227	Why are you thanking me, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0030par0228	Thank you, Mr. President, for giving me time. Hence, the relevant parties have been informed. There is no cooperation. Again, he made a claim that PYD had been paid. That's not true either. In talks with the PYD in the past, it has been said: "Do not cooperate with the regime, resort to terrorism, and stay away from what has happened because Turkey will not accept it. " Another brother brought an accusation. We are nowhere against our Kurdish brothers. Turkey has no concern with the status of Kurds. Turkey is a friend of the Kurds of Northern Iraq and the Government of Northern Iraq. The PKK alone does not represent Kurds in Syria. The Syrian National Kurdish Coalition is part of the opposition's negotiating team, and there are 65 countries in the coalition against DEAŞ. Among these 65 countries are Saudi Arabia. Our Incirlik also has the planes of England, America, and Germany. Saudi Arabia, which is part of the coalition, will also have planes to fight against DEASH. We are actively contributing to the fight against the DEAS. Again, Mr. President, you have said that another deputy is occupied the islands of Ege." he said. I certainly didn't say that, it's not true. Look at the daily Hurriyet, 26 August 1998... the President at the time -- look at what happened in his administration when he was President -- says in his interview with the daily Hurriyet: there are gray areas in the Gulf Sea. So he wasn't identified by the agreements. We say that these are not yours, they are ours because of the succession. Again, Ironel is not a Greek lake, as you all know. The Aegean is not a Turkish lake. Busenaleyh is not a lake in the Aegean. So, we say here that the Ege is our common sea, our common interest.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0032par0234	There's no such thing as the Aegean, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0030par0235	We defend our rights to international agreements. It is not right that this 1998 claim should be transmitted differently today.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0033par0236	Are there Greek flags on the islands or not? I mean, what does it have to do with whether the Aegean is a lake or not?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0030par0237	Another thing: We defend Syria's territorial integrity. Since 2011, I have been acting as the Ministry of National Defense. Since Syrian events began, we said that many people abroad had four or five parts even in Syria's past, that Lebanon had been separated from that part and gained independence, so that the rest of them should be divided in accordance with the old culture, that it would create a lump of problems that did not end in the Middle East, and that if we bring peace and stability to the Middle East, then it would be necessary to defend Syrian territorial integrity. We'll keep singing from now on. Again, we really want stability both inside and outside, because we want peace because it's our principle in yurtta, peace in jihanda. We also work for peace, but it's not enough that you alone want peace. Again, no matter where innocent people lose their lives, we bleed our hearts out, and no one doubts it, we don't discriminate. Again, I want to make it very clear that whatever is being done in Cizre is being done in accordance with all the regulations. Another name, Kobani. We often say that -- and I think it's true for politicians -- politicians have to follow the public -- whatever the public says -- its value, its opinion. He may say different ideas in public, but my personal opinion is that professors and artists express different opinions outside of what the public thinks; they open up public opinion, but politicians need to be friends with the values of the people, they need to defend the values of the people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, if a place is called Kobani, and the people call it Kobani, it should not be disturbed at all. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0034par0246	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0035par0247	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0034par0248	There was a demand before you, Mr. Baluken. Mr. Özdağ, I promise you, I will listen to you. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0036par0250	Mr. President, by referring to our orator group speaking on behalf of the AKP Group, the group and lawmakers who did not call the PYD a terrorist organization are engaged in occupation.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0034par0251	According to Article 69, I give you my word. Please don't challenge a new taunt, Mr. Baluken. Your time is two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0037par0255	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, we need to clarify this court decision. Since when do you know court decisions as political will, we don't know that. If you're in a situation like that, you're also agreeing to close cases about a party that's a ruling party. You also know the will of the current President to be sent to prison because he read a poem about those cases against your party. Remember, just a year ago, the current President said there were no parallel gangs in the corridors of Adliye. Now, don't bring us here to reflect on the decisions made by those courts as a political will. The PYD is the political will of the Kurds in Syria. This is very clear from our point of view, and the whole world accepts it. So, you're going to America, you're going to Russia, you're going to the countries of the region, you're going to a political beggar position, you're going to call PYD, you're going to a terrorist organization. According to the universal criteria, there's no one else making that description except you. There are, there are a few more powers, there are Suud regimes, maybe Qatar, ISIS, El Nusra, Ahra al- Damascus. Notice that this ISIS, El Nusra, Ahra al-Shamash puts all human values on the line, and the entire world knows exactly what PYD, YPG, and YPG are all about because it defends human values against these violent gangs. On the other hand, that alliance with the Democratic Syrian Forces, both parliament and military level, has Turkmen, Arab, Armenian Suryani, all the Nusayri peoples there. Therefore, we believe that political developments in the world would be correct, not in your own political interests. It has come to light that your rules of angajman against NYD also apply not to Turkey's borders, but to the attacks of El Nusra, Ahra al-Hamsam and ISIS. And the whole world is already discussing it in a way that you'll lose your mask.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0038par0261	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Özdağ was just standing. I'm listening, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0039par0264	There's bullying.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0038par0265	If you state the reason...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0039par0266	Mr. Secretary said I wasn't telling the truth.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0038par0267	About what, Mr. Özdağ?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0039par0268	The AKP government between the PYD and Turkey is talking about communication.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0038par0269	Here you are, Mr. Özdağ, and I give you my word under Article 69. Please express your thoughts before you dare to be bullied.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0039par0272	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I told you the PYD was a road counselor. Mr. Secretary said it wasn't like that, that all parties were informed. All sides are probably not the United States, Russia, France and England, but PYD and ISIS. So when you say all parties, you've made it clear that you've been communicating with terrorist organizations, Mr. Secretary. And you said the money wasn't real. We don't say everything we know by government responsibility, and we don't say why. You have to look at the map. Does the map say Ayn El Arab or Kobani? The politicians speak the language of the people. You said, "Mr. Prime Minister, let the people speak the language of Edirne. What will they say to him?" But what amazes me the most is that at the end of the 24th term, Mr. Erkan Akçay, you stated that the Greek army had created an actual situation on the islands that you had made here on the question motion that you had made in the minutes that were occupied in the Aegean.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0040par0276	I didn't, Mr. Umit.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0041par0277	You did, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0039par0278	Look, Erkan Akçay is here too.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0040par0279	I don't accept it.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0039par0280	I wrote an article about it, Mr. Secretary, looking at things.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0040par0281	I'm an expert in marine law.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0039par0282	Okay. Let's get them, let's see, I'll get them from you then...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0040par0283	I was Undersecretary of Maritime for nearly five years.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0039par0284	If you didn't say it was a verb and you didn't agree to the Greek occupation, I have nothing to say about it, but a Greek invasion continues on the islands.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0040par0285	Look at the account of Demirel, in 1998.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0042par0286	Address the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0039par0287	Sir, isn't that the General Assembly? That's the General Assembly, so I went back to Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0042par0288	I mean, there's no need for a reciprocal dialogue.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0039par0289	Thank you. That's what this is about.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0042par0290	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0043par0291	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0044par0292	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0045par0293	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0046par0294	One moment, dear friends, I'll listen to you all. Mr. Ozoy had once stood up and asked for a word. Mr. Ozsoy, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0047par0296	Mr. President, the AKP speaker has expressed a different meaning to my analogy with Syria and Cizre. I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0046par0297	According to Article 69, I give you my word for two minutes. Please state your opinion in a manner that does not challenge a taunt, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0047par0300	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, there's really no point in making a polemic here. When governments kill civilians, they do it either because I'm fighting a terrorist for homeland defense. There are reasons for you in Syria, of course, in terms of the government, where I'm fighting terrorists. Ask Syria, they say the same, Russia says the same. I mean, there's a terrorist like that, like a ghost, and I can go and do whatever I want... so? Hundreds of civilians are dead, and unfortunately, I'm fighting terror. We're just saying that. So there's no point in making a polemic out of it, and there's a certain need to be asked about all the civilians who died during these blockades. You know why? If not, the government becomes a gang. Because in a country under your responsibility, civilian people have died, guaranteed by the state. It's a big responsibility in both national and international law. Look, guys, here's the thing: based on a court order, the PYD is a terrorist... if you had declared it by now. You mean the PKK, for example. Why hasn't PYD been declared yet? You don't do politics by hiding behind a court order. We say it's a good thing it wasn't. So if Turkey still thinks that maybe there's a future, maybe there's a relationship, I can hold ground, the government does good, doesn't do bad. If you take it and put it in the category of terror, you'll destroy the ground that you can be associated with tomorrow. Salih Müslim came here in 2013, didn't he? There were some interviews. Look, these aren't bad things. If you're doing this right, we think you should insist on your truth. Let's say it all the way to the world that you can view as a PKK, PYD, YPG terrorist organization, but in Middle Eastern politics, it's sociological political realities. You cannot close your eyes to these realities and establish peace in Turkey or the Middle East or Syria. For him, we're not suggesting conflict, we're suggesting negotiation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0048par0305	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0049par0306	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0048par0307	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0049par0308	In his speech, Mr. Bauken said that the government was a political beggar, who went to various countries supported by the AK PARTY. It's an open taunt. In this frame...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0048par0309	Mr. Bostanci, there's been some bullying against the government here, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0049par0310	It's the government of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0050par0311	The government he supports, the government he votes for.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0049par0312	It doesn't come down from the sky.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0051par0313	Well, here you go, Mr. Bostanci, and I promise you two minutes. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please don't let me pick on you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0049par0317	Mr. President, dear friends, the government is probably taking power from somewhere, and it's not going to be a government on its own.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0052par0318	But in the end, it's called the government of the Republic of Turkey, Mr. Bostancı.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0049par0319	Dear friends, people are getting hurt in Syria. Turkey is also hurt when people in Syria are hurt. Turkey, of course, will go to various countries and inform them of the developments in Syria, of the terrorist formations there. This information is also needed because these countries don't see the tip of their noses, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0053par0320	I wonder!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0049par0321	They don't see the end of their nose. Those in Brussels don't see the tip of their noses. They don't really see it, I agree.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0053par0322	About those refugees.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0049par0323	They need to see it. Because they can't see the tip of their noses, they don't see that the PYD is also a terrorist organization. What are they looking at? Who can be useful in Syria, who can be useful to us, who can at least cost us the least in the relationship of powers there, and who can we use as subcontractors? Unfortunately, we're trying to use P.Y.D. here. This is not the first time the Kurds have tried to be used in geography. In this geography, the Kurds have been sold many times, and they will be sold again, just so you know. The real friends of the people in this country are the people in this geography, you should know that. P.Y.D., yeah, terrorist organization. He did that terror to the Kurds there first. Surely those who are so interested in the PYD know what they're doing to Kurds who don't obey themselves to rule there. This is no stranger to us. It's no stranger to us to use those cruel, abusive, fascist methods against Kurds who don't look like him, who don't share the same ideology. So, it's essentially the determination of a terrorist organization to force its will to violence the people and the people there. That's what they do in Cizre, an imposition of will. That's not how the government fights, that's how they fight... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] How will the state fight terror for the sake of God? And we'd appreciate it if they talked about it. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0054par0329	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0055par0330	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0056par0331	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0054par0332	Mr. Baluken, just a moment... Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0057par0334	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, when the Minister made his statement, he made no clear statement about the islands found in the Aegean Sea. Whose flag is hanging on those islands? Is the Greek flag hanging or the Turkish flag hanging? So I'd like to make a statement here. And in the same way Mr. Minister said: "Sir, the PYD is a terrorist organization." Well, shouldn't a terrorist organization be decided by the Council of Ministers to be considered a terrorist organization according to our existing laws? If you say so, why are you afraid to do so? For him, for the explanation, I mean, the court's rulings are today...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0058par0337	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0057par0338	Will you allow me to explain, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0058par0339	Mr. Tanal, your words have been written down. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0057par0340	It's not over. Now, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary, the court order says that the court's decision can be broken or broken by written order if the court is still not finalized by written order. Political power here avoids responsibility, does not inform the public. If it's a terrorist organization, who's holding your hand? In any case, you can make a decision by the Council of Ministers on urban transformation, making the public's risk-free zone a risk-free risk. Why don't you make up your mind about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0058par0342	Mr. Tanal, your words have been written down. Thank you. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0059par0345	During his speech, Mr. Bostanci stated that we couldn't see the tip of our noses politically, and he made a clear taunt about it.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0060par0346	I said the people in the cultural community, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0058par0347	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. Under Article 69, I promise you, please do not challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0061par0350	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, when we called the war in Cizre a war against the Kurdish people, you came out here talking about trenches and barricades. Now, are there moats in Azez, Afrin, or barricades in Azez? You, the government, have put Kurdish anti-Kurdish hostility at the center of Middle Eastern policy.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0062par0352	Wrong!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0061par0353	You can't hide that fact by hiding behind the PYD, holding on to the terror-fighting lie inside. What's wrong with it? From Azez (Azez) to Cizre, you have formed a corridor of war from Tyre to Aleppo (Aleppo). What's the point? Which spine is sitting on it? You co-operate with El Nusra, to keep the Kurds from having status, to be the bearers of Ahrar al-Sham, to speak of your relationship with ISIS gangs all over the world. For what? Let the Kurds not gain status. And then he came here and he did this to the Kurds who weren't his own, and the world wouldn't believe them. There is ISIS, which reflects monotheistic mentality, Al Nusra, Ahrar al-Sham, Al-Qaeda; they slaughter all who are different from themselves, Kurdish, Arab, Suryani, Armenian, Nusayri, and all who are not like him. The only force that resists them, which is based on plural democracy, is the PID, the practice. Look at the cantonal governments in Rojava, the structure of the democratic Syrian parliament. The Prime Minister is the Co-Chair, and the majority of the Parliament is the Turkmen, the Armenians, the other peoples. Look at the structure of the Tel Abyad coven, the Gre Spi coven. Let there be no Kurds, let there be no lies to drive there, and the real power to protect other peoples from the slaughter is the PYD. And what's troubling you is that your understanding is exposure. Let me tell you about the refugees for a second. There have been comebacks in every area that the PYD has liberated. At present, most of those who fled from Aleppo seek refuge in Afrin. It's so clear and clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0063par0357	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0064par0358	Mr. President, your Middle East policy is anti-Kurdish. I strongly reject the claim.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0061par0359	Come in. That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0064par0360	The reality of Turkey is practical, it already cashes it.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0065par0361	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0061par0362	Soon you will go to Assad on Kurdish enmity.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0064par0363	Not at all.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0065par0364	It's been filed, Mr. Baluken. Thank you, dear friends. Members of lawmakers, I will now make a one-minute commitment to lawmakers who have entered the system by observing the order of the demand, according to Article 60 of the Civil Code. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0066par0370	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. ministers, today, for the past two hundred and forty days, citizens have been standing guard over the forest of our Artvin province, to maintain its nature, without distinction from the political party. And the CED report from the past has been canceled. According to that report, either this city will be moved or there will be mining. What do you think is clear here? Should the people of Artvin at least choose the settlement, or should they continue to live in the current area, in the settlement? Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0067par0373	Mr. Horseman, I don't think so. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0068par0376	Thank you, Mr. President. There's been another woman's murder today. Turkan Sarıkaya died today after being beaten by a criminal in Adana, after being in a coma for seven days. Mr. Government... although they're gone, let's address the MPs, let's address the AKP people: On page 90 of your election declaration, you say you're going to fight the woman about violence, and after the election is over, your Minister of the Family says: there's no violence, there's selective perception. Okay, violence is common, but what kind of man was killed by love? What man was beaten, murdered, raped because he wanted a divorce? Of course there's violence in women, you can't ignore that fact. We say, yes, we've offered dozens of laws to prevent violence against women. If it's too much for you, bring it yourself, and we'll accept it. The women who are killed every day are yours, too, so accept it, and let's not let the Özgecans be killed today, the Turks, the Dillays. Don't you have a bad conscience? Didn't you listen to Turkan's father's rebellion today? Don't you have girls? That's enough, that's enough...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0069par0381	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0070par0383	Mr. President, life is getting harder and harder for sub- and middle-income groups in Turkey. With the latest hikes to the cable car at the site of my election zone, Bursa. With a price of 600 per cent in 2008, the family of 4 people paid $24 for a fee, which is now $35, and a family of four is trying to take advantage of this natural paradise right next door to $140. However, if you look at income groups, you either have to drive or you have to have a high income group. I say, "Is this a raise to the person who wants to take advantage of this nature?" And I say, "Give me a break."
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0069par0384	Your Highness... I don't see Your Highness. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0071par0388	Thank you, Mr. President. A flood occurred on 11 September 2014 in the district of Niğde Province of Farms. Bozköy, Ovalıbağ, Divarlı, Tzardak and Orhanlı were affected by the flood and damaged. A similar situation occurred in the Aksaray Taşpınar region. Citizens who have lost their animals, who have lost their homes, and who have damaged bridges, have been waiting for two years to receive damages. Our citizens, who were damaged by the flood two years ago, were unable to receive the documents they gave, the findings they received. In addition, there have been TOKI dwellings in Çamarı Sadememre, which have been difficult to give to the rightful owners for two years. The correspondence between the bookmaker and the person who did it continues. The citizen is also a victim. The problem with TOKI housing needs to be resolved, and I urge the government to be sensitive to the immediate removal of the damage to the flood in Farm County and Aksaray Taşpınar.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0072par0391	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0073par0393	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, our Constitutional Compromise Commission has begun. We've been searching for a long time to implement the constitution our nation desires. Of course, the Constitution is ahead of some reforms. So far, as EC PARTY governments, we've done reforms in many areas. We have endeavored to change this Constitution as much as possible, which we would describe as a slum constitution. However, we are faced with the necessity of implementing a constitution that we are going to call my constitution, which is permanent, long-term, democratic, and, yes, my constitution. Today, I invite all opposition parties from domestic automotive, development moves, smartphones, and a constitution that is far more important than our major investments. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0074par0396	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0075par0398	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to address the problems of our senior citizens in retirement. You know, people who started before September 8, 1999 were able to retire on a premium day and the completion of their insurance period without age conditions, while the age requirement for this date was provided. The victims of this legal arrangement and those known in public as the age of retirement, the victims of our citizens must be removed immediately. Our pensioners are having economic difficulties because they can't get pensions. When they want to work again for income, they are often not hired by their age as justification. The AKP's government is not trying to help pensioners get jobs again, nor does it support legal provisions that will prevent retirement. This group of victims, which exceeds almost 100,000, is inadmissible. We can't come up with a solution by ignoring or diverting problems. We need to get the legal arrangement of our retirement citizens through Parliament with a hand over their lives. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0076par0401	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0077par0403	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to address the ruling MPs: Yesterday in the district of Yayladağı, Hatay province, I pray for God's mercy on our fallen soldier. Did your consciences hurt when you woke up this morning? That outpost has been targeted by social media for days. What did you do about it? You are the authors of this, your wrong foreign policy is bankrupt. If you want peace, then you have to implement a foreign policy with an index for peace. Yeah, that's enough! How many more martyrs? Put your hand on your conscience, put your hand down like that, that's enough! Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0078par0407	Mr. Bozkurt...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0079par0409	Thank you, Mr. President. I think we're mistaken, because what I know is that the state of the Republic of Turkey, which ended on 9 September 1922, was founded on the National Liberation War of Kuvacimilliye, led by Ataturk, and this land became a homeland with the Lausanne Agreement. Now, at the end of this country's 14-year power, the President of this country comes out and says: "Some of us are martyrs to make our homeland a new home." I strongly reject this statement and this Parliament should reject it, this Parliament is the Veterans Assembly. The land is ours, Diyarbakır is ours, Serik is ours, Cizre is ours, Sur is ours, and every citizen who lives there is ours. Therefore, part of our country has not stopped being a country, and it is not appropriate to say that to Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0080par0413	Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0081par0415	Mr. President, there's a huge contradiction in the fact that AKP governments are constantly increasing fuel as oil prices are falling around the world. The raises are infuriating. In 2008, oil was $147, gasoline was $3.61, oil was $58 a barrel in 2014, gasoline was $44.24 a barrel in our country, oil was $33 a barrel today, and gasoline was $46 a penny. The AKP's government has always cited rising oil prices as an excuse for increasing gas and diesel prices. For the past eight years, oil prices have been constantly falling, while fuel prices have been constantly increasing in our country. When they come to power, a liter of gas is not even a dollar, and now a liter of gasoline is at $1.4. The price of fuel in our country must also be reduced in accordance with world oil prices that go from $147 to $33. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0080par0417	Mr. Bay...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0082par0419	Thank you, Mr. President. In many institutions and institutions in İzmir, it has been discovered that the ability to produce technology is available, but this ability is not being implemented at the desired level. In addition, academic staff in İzmir must be encouraged and supported to build and conduct projects to increase the potential for RD and innovation. These supports are also important in project creation and development, especially in terms of improving young researchers' skills and encouraging them to build projects. We expect an effective cooperation between the two parties to be realized that studies conducted at Izmir universities cannot be transferred to industry at the desired level. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0083par0422	Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0084par0424	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, our exporters in Mersin County have complained that the VAT extradition has been paid too late. Sometimes they complain that these payments have been around for, like, eight months. As you can appreciate, many sectors are affected, indirectly, as these delays have put our businessmen in financial distress. The reason for these delays is not due to any lack of paperwork or processing, but as we understand it, it's a arbitrary practice. These payments must be paid in a certain amount of time after the completion of operations. As a district MP, we would like you to look into the reasons for this arbitrary practice, as we expect you to, on behalf of our regional businessmen and our country's economy, on the basis of the solution. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0085par0427	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0086par0429	Mr. President, we're going to war with Syria one step at a time. Political power continues to continue its policy of inner tension in the same way in foreign relations. With his attempts, he has brought our country to the brink of war. I want to know when the political government will give up the tension policy. Again, in our country, many village and neighborhood chiefs do not have service rooms and buildings. I'd like to know when our mayors' service facilities will be built, when our heads will be in the service buildings. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0087par0432	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0088par0434	Mr. President, as shown in the media today, Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality has begun a new regulation that attracts the reactions of citizens on the subway that thousands of people use every day in Istanbul. Earlier, citizens who could not get into the subway because of the concentration of Willows from the inter-stops in the Beylikdüzüz province were traveling to the opposite direction to the TUYAP station, without paying a separate fee for the empty subways. According to the new arrangement launched today by IETT of Istanbul's Metropolitan Municipality, the last stop is the second time passengers have to pay for a ticket from the TUYAP station to the empty subway. I'd like to ask you now: on what grounds did the municipality, which should be serving citizens, not profiting from them, have signed such an application to victimize the citizen? The application must be put to an end before we can victimize our citizens who are struggling with the raises any longer. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0089par0438	Mr. Niceer...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0090par0440	Thank you, Mr. President. Social Security provides a condition that patients with lung cancer have never used a cigarette to pay for their medication, and we know that this condition will be implemented as of March 3rd. 17 million people smoke in our country. Every year, 18,479 people are diagnosed with new lung cancer. We also know why cigarettes are 91.5 percent of lung cancer. Smoking, of course, is a bad habit, which, of course, states can take measures to prevent people from smoking, protective measures, but I, from here, invite the Ministry of Health to the post, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, wants to save money on human health. Let's please stop thinking of patients as clients, hospitals as business. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0091par0445	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0092par0447	Thank you, Mr. President. Our children who live in foster homes are expelled from their homes because they are 18 years old, thrown out on the street, not even paid for the road. They only get help from the government if they win college. Since the government doesn't take care of these kids, most of them can't find a place to go. That's why they get involved in crime, become drug addicts. There are also cases that have often been reflected in the courts. These children who have left the dorm should not be pushed into crime, but must be taken care of and controlled after the age of 18. With opportunities for vocational education, these children can be created with jobs. Why is the ruling AKP ruling for 14 years ignoring this problem? Is there going to be a study on this? In agriculture, 2,600 people working as agricultural advisers are victimised by subcontractors, their salaries are short and late. Agricultural advisers should be given 4/A, 4/C staffs.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0093par0452	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0094par0454	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to point out something that we all know, especially Mr. Secretary in the first place. Despite the decision that the directors of educational institutions of the Ministry of National Education have been relieved of their duties and other administrative staff teachers have been assigned to other schools, the decision has been decided to extradite teachers in this situation. However, although the Ministry of National Education is not implementing this decision a year later, in most of Turkey's districts, around 4,300 and in Giresun, 16 educational teachers do not return to their duties. These teachers and training unions are pressing charges against prosecutors about the Ministry, the governors, the National Education Directors, and they are asking for the decision to be carried out. That's why there's total chaos in education. It is not acceptable for such an educational community to be victimised, discredited, to be subjected to the quality of management, experience, knowledge and etiquette. It is possible that an image of the Ministry of National Education, which violates the law, disregards its legal decisions, will be removed only if it returns educational administrators to its post. It's for your information. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0095par0458	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0096par0460	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, we've just had five ministers here, and the heart would have wanted them to listen to their wishes and wishes, but they don't have 5 of them right now. Mr. National Defence Minister said: "Let's ask the people, make a decision and make politics." Now, today, there's a very serious incident going on in my district, in the green Artvin. As the opposition MP in that region, I would say that there really is a madness going on in that area right now. Artvin, who is a magnificent city with his fair and fauna, where all kinds of beautiful nature live, despite the will of the people to be wasted on mining. Right now, the people of Artvin are resisting, refusing to do so, so they're looking for mines in the area, and they're taking a stand against the HES. If the Minister had been here, we should have asked: How is that to form politics based on the will of the people? Although it is a court order, despite the people's will, Artvin's province is now truly under control. I want to make this very clear, and I want to point out that Artvin is not alone either. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0097par0464	Mr. Sertel...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0098par0466	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All parts of the community can reach Republican People's Party MPs by phone, and I would like to give my personal phone to our citizens from here: 0 533 293 01 00. A prisoner from Kahramanmarash Open Prison called me. This prison is a prison of 160 people, and now 410 people are in this prison. The closed section of the same prison is 750 people, currently 1,160 people. The number of prisoners increased rapidly after the AKP came to power in 2002. In 2005, it reached 55,870, while in 2015 it reached 170,000, and now, unfortunately, it has reached 200,000. I think it would be in the community's best interest to review the probationary release period of the prisoners, rather than admit prisoners in prisons where they step on one another and go to the bathroom and violate human rights. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0099par0470	Mr. Haberal...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0100par0472	Thank you, Mr. President. On 16/2/999, the leader of the separatist terrorist organization, the baby killer traitor, was captured in Nairobi, Kenya's capital city, and brought to Turkey. From the start, the National Movement Party has insisted that this traitor be welcomed as a special guest at Imralı, a military restricted area status, and that he be free to lead the terrorist organization through his lawyers. He argued that he would suffer a life-long aggravated sentence in real life, in full isolation, in a type F prison. In a type F prison, in a cell, living in absolute isolation, being deprived of the opportunity to run a terrorist organization, and counting the days for the end of a life of an asshole should be the only thing that this criminal yearns for. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0101par0475	Mr. Karakaya...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0102par0477	Thank you, Mr. President. Price hikes against consumers in meat and bread prices have been a serious problem in recent days, but also in price reductions against producers at milk prices. These abnormal declines in raw milk prices have caused milk producers considerable distress. The calf is not for those who have no mother. The government must take immediate measures to resolve this problem of raw milk producers when we act on its simple rhetoric. Otherwise, I'm bringing up the fact that a million milk cows went to town in 2008 that similar games are being played these days. Thank you very much, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0103par0480	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. One minute of conversation is over. Some of the group's vice presidents have demands, and I'm going to meet them now. Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0104par0485	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish you all the best in your new mission. Since this is the first time I've been in your session, I've had to say it now, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0103par0487	Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0104par0488	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, I really blame the incident at Artvin Cerattepe, and I salute the resistance of the people there. Once again, I want to make it clear that what everyone in the area needs to do, what they want, what they want, what they want, what they need to be realized, is to be realized. Second: As you know, we're going through a process where curfews are increasing day by day. Yes, the curfew is on the 76th day in Sur, and the 66th day in Cizre, and the 66th in Silopi. As if this was not enough, during such a period of destruction of civilian deaths, homes, and areas, the curfew was declared again today in İdil. The funerals of the people in the basements, which we refer to as the basement in Cizre, were unfortunately sent with many. Even though the governor's statement called 10 funerals, TRT stated that there were 100 funerals as subtitles, as of today, we see once again how conflicted the state and the government are. What we are currently detecting is a situation that makes it very difficult for the families to identify the funerals sent to Şırnak, Silvio, the Silopi Habur Border Gate, Urbana, Mardin and Gaziantep, and indeed, in some way, because of the dissolution of its integrity. And as if that wasn't enough, as if this pain wasn't enough, they're also looking for a second family of torture and pain. In order to identify the bodies, families have to run to Gaziantep, Mardine, Şırnaka, Cizreye, Urbana, and Silopi. I mean, it's torture in Turkey; it's families who can't even go get his body or his body. This problem really needs to be resolved quickly. For families, there are some diagnostics at present that can only be revealed by DNA tests. We say that these things must be dealt with at once, and that once again, we condemn these atrocities from here. We'd like to say once again that we don't accept the torture of families. Again, in the same way, I'd like to point out from the murder of women: a woman was murdered today again in Adana; yes, unfortunately the latest example of torture done on the woman's body. So it happened at first in Varto, via Ekin Van.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0105par0493	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Ironel, and finish your words.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0104par0494	Thank you, Mr. President. This is where we expressed our reaction to the slaughter of Ekin Van (Ekin Van) in Varto (Varto) and the display of his naked body to all the public. But unfortunately, we saw the same thing in Cizre during the same period of power. Which is not acceptable to slaughter, torture the female body and reflect her naked body all over the public and express it as a sign of victory over it. We will never accept this in Turkey in 2016... The sexist approach of male dominant mentality has once again brought a black mark on Turkey's history. What happened in Cizre, the people who ordered it, the people who did it, and the people who served it, has been made public and contrary to national and international contracts, which means that those who did it must be judged once again, and we want to share with all the public that we do not accept. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0106par0497	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0107par0500	Thank you, Mr. President. The Syrian refugee crisis is growing every day. International public opinion and some countries are getting more involved in the problem every day, but the government has lost its activity on refugees. On February 11th, reports of NATO against refugees starting patrolling the Aegean Sea were publicly reported. In the same days, the Greek Defence Minister announced that NATO would return the refugees it saved in the Aegean to Turkey. I remind you again of what the NATO Secretary General said on December 8, 2015: "Muslims are on the front line in this war, most of the victims are Muslims and most of the people who fight against ISIS are Muslims, we cannot fight for them." When you put the pieces together, the painting comes out. NATO is taking its deployment against refugee crossing in the Aegean Sea, not on the Syrian border, on the border with the European Union. I ask: Is the border of NATO the Aegean Sea? NATO's deployment of the Aegean Sea for refugees shows a painting that leaves Turkey out of NATO. The conclusion is that it is the European countries that need to be protected, and Turkey is the country that is in charge of those who need to be protected. NATO's move brought up on a visit to Ankara by German Prime Minister Merkel. I call on the government to take a more firm, effective, and appropriate measure for Turkey's rights and interests. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0108par0506	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0109par0509	Thank you, Mr. President. Today in Artvin, all eyes are on Cerrattepe, Turkey's eyes on Cerrattepe, and we have eyes, ears, hearts with the people of Cerrattepe. In fact, the ruling party's commitments before the election are discussed, but we see that one of the companies that came out of each tender is taking action today at Cerrattepe to fulfill one of its extremely offensive and immoral promises before the election. Four members of the Republican People's Party Group, including Mr. Erdin Bircan, Mr. Peace Black Sea and Mr. Mehmet Alli, are with the Artvins and Cerrattepelis from the Republic's People's Party Group, in an environment where the state hospital is being warned about the wounded, the bed and emergency response capacity is being increased for the intervention in the area of one of the 100 most important natural forests in the world, particularly from our member of Ugur Bayraktu, Mr. Erdin Bircan, Mr. Barış Karadeniz and Mr. Mehmet All are with those who want to protect nature, the forest, the rights of life, and the beautiful trees they entrusted to their descendants from last night. Unfortunately, from yesterday, the contacts we've been trying to establish with the Home Secretary and all the public officials say the decision has been made, and the state will do it there today. In recent times, the similar approaches of the state in Mersin were later condemned to public consciences in Sinop. When 70 - year - old aunts were dragged to the ground and inverted, the deputy prime minister of the ruling party said they were ashamed of those images. We're warning you from here: without any embarrassing business, return from the orders you gave to the SWAT officers who were brought in from the six counties and the sons of this country, not to order citizens, civilians, aunts, to attack, to spray and intervene. We are very clear that the will of the Republican People's Party Group is the will of the Artvins. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0110par0513	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0111par0516	Mr. President, thank you. The fight against terrorism is a hard job, it's not cute, there's a lot of people who give advice and criticize, but there's no one who wants to take responsibility for the unpleasant part of the job. Turkey has to deal with current terrorist aggression, terrorist wave, not because it's willing, but because it has to. I'm sure the security guards there and everyone involved in every stage of the fight against this terrorism have to take it upon themselves because of their moral duty to ensure the safety of lives and property of the people, the people of this country -- Turkish, Kurdish -- with the safety of their lives and property. Turkey has faced terrorist aggression, a result of developments in the Middle East since July. Some cities are wanted to move into this business, open ditchs, fill these places with explosives, and create an actual occupation under the guise of armed youth in the background; the state will not stand by. I wish there were no such improvements in this country, and those young people who think they're doing a good job with guns in their hands and doing an honorable job behind those ditchs, basically, like others do, seeking rights through legitimate politics, studying at universities, doing good work for this country, everyone in this country, there are other ways. Violence, bloodshed, fighting against the state's security forces there will bring no good to the Kurds or Turks. The state will fight this battle, regretting the struggle, of course. No one's nose will bleed. I'm afraid there are casualties. We don't want these losses to happen, and no one will be happy that the security guards there are martyrs, and we certainly don't appreciate the loss of the people that we describe there as young people losing their lives, that terrorist, and that's what they're really doing. But it's a necessity to wait for the state to be indifferent to the attempt to take place there, to do it, to do it. It's impossible to wait, to stand back, to be an audience. I think it's a crime, of course, a crime, a crime for young people who have guns, who deal with explosives, who, of course, will take responsibility for that, but the real killer...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0112par0520	I'll turn on your microphone, finish your words, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0111par0521	Thank you. The real killers, the ones who are behind this job, the ones who are behind it, the ones who send those kids out there with plastic, theoretical, ideological discurs, 20, 22, 25 years old, maybe another place, they're the ones who send young people in this country to their deaths, who are the real killers. Of course, these people won't forget the real killers. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit01spe0113par0524	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly According to Article 2 of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of Turkey, members of the European Security and Co-operation Agency Parliamentary Assembly, NATO Parliamentary Assembly, under Article 12 of the same law are presented to the General Assembly's information, in accordance with Article 12 of the same law to form groups representing the Grand National Assembly of the Parliaments. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman European Security and Co-operation Agency Parliament Assembly (Agitpa) Members of Turkey Delegation [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Bingöl]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Slap]] [[Ardahan]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Manisa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] NATO Parliament Assembly Members of Turkey Delegation [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Elizipt]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Rize]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Scholarship]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Dull]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] [[Mersin]] [[Nevşehir]] [[Osmaniye]] Inter- Parliamentary Union (PAB) Members of Turkey Delegation [[Bayburt]] Lütfiye İnsen Ceritoğlu Kurt [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Nevşehir]] [[Siirt]] It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the opening of the Parliamentary Research Commission for a parliamentary research commission to examine and resolve all these issues in order to ensure that the catastrophes in the eastern Black Sea region are being examined and taken into account the necessary measures, be taken against possible disasters, and eliminate possible disasters in new projects. [[Artvin]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Tunceli]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] 12) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[Burdur]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Janitor]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 17) Gamze Akkuş Isgez [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Slap]] [[İzmir]] 23) Zülfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[Zonguldak]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] 27) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] The eastern Black Sea region is known as the beauty of nature, its fresh air, its mate's rare river, waterfalls, valleys, plateaus, blue of the sea, green of nature, an untouched paradise corner. We say it's known because its virgin nature is getting damaged every day, and the capital and the rant people see the pristine East Black Sea as a paradise, not a paradise of nature, unfortunately, a paradise of the market. As a result of political and economic relations without any infrastructure or scientific research in the region, our streams are set up with numerous large, small hydropower plants, streams of water deposits, changing ecological life, whether they want to or not. Countless trees are being cut down, and the plateaus are being cemented by the call of the green road. Virgin East Black Sea forests are no longer the paradise of mankind, but capital. The seas are filled, the forests are cut off, the essentials aside, the looting of the wild, as if smuggling from the fire. "Nature sooner or later takes back what is its own." The term is available. Over the past five years, Black Sea Coast Road has been repossessed several times by the sea, and financial and spiritual damage has been considerable. However, the people who did the project, the controllers and those who approved it did not account for the loss of millions of dollars, the destruction of the state. On the contrary, disasters have created new business doors, costs caused by their mistakes have added capital to their capital. Again, projects that were tampered with streambeds, which were not appropriate under the name HESEST, were the result of political and economic relations, and were the cause of great disasters by taking back those who were taken from the stream. The authorities called it a natural disaster, and left it at that. Of course, illegal woodcuts, nature's destruction, quarryes, and so on, have corrupted the ecological balance in the region, changing climate conditions. In the Eastern Black Sea Region, the knowledge of extreme rains in the region, particularly within Rize and Artvin, is also known to the concerned institutions of the state, as is the locals. However, our institutions, such as DSI, Highways, AFAD, Environment and Urbanism, Special Administration, have not learned from what has happened in the region, nor have they taken any preventive measures. As a result of every flood disaster, our institutions have been inadequate, and victims have been caused by inadequacy. On August 24, 2015, there was a massive flood in Arhavi and Hopa district of Artvin province, as well as unrecognizable physical and spiritual losses. This painting has deeply upset all of Turkey, and has come from all over our country with tools to heal the wounds in the region. However, another disaster occurred three months later in our districts of Borakka and Murgul, while the current wounds were covered, and the region was uninhabitable. The situation is very grave by authority and responsible institutions. Our government has to be prepared for the potential disaster in the region without disaster. As we all know, the East Black Sea District is Turkey's most rainy zone. Therefore, it is unacceptable for authorities to avoid being victimized in the wake of the rains. The task of relevant institutions is not to assess the situation and explain the disaster, but to eliminate it without the disaster. That's the whole point of having those institutions. Our citizens are dying as a result of negligence. We invite officials to be more sensitive about its disaster, especially to work on preventive measures, to understand Thursday's arrival from Wednesday, to be cautious as if it were going to be a disaster, once again stressing. In light of the above issues, we respectfully review the disasters in the Eastern Black Sea Region and welcome the opening of the Parliamentary Commission on Research for a parliamentary research commission to be established in order to ensure that the necessary measures are taken, possible measures are taken, and possible disasters may be eliminated in new projects, and that all these problems be addressed in place and determined by the Constitution's 98th and Interior Charter's 104th and 105th Articles. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 24 August 2015, Arhavi and Hopa respectfully announce the destruction of the flood in Murgul and Körka districts on 12 November 2015, and announce the opening of the Parliamental research commission under Articles 104, 105. [[Artvin]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Tunceli]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Edirne]] [[Burdur]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Janitor]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 18) Gamze Akkuş Isgez [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Slap]] [[İzmir]] 24) Zülfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[Zonguldak]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] 28) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] On 24/8/2015, there have been the largest floods in Arhavi and Hopa districts of Artvin Province in the last 50 years. The amount of rain falling in the square has left the area uninhabitable, and as a result, 11 of our citizens in Hopa County have lost their lives and three others have not been found. Unfortunately, three of our citizens have been killed by disaster in the history of November 12, 2015. The victims were determined on the basis of the citizen's statement, but these findings were far from justified. For example, in the same disaster site, the same site and apartment, the two apartments next door to each other were unfairly paid. The claim that the detection of the heat temperature is wrong is a cry for help in the people of the region. These statements must be reviewed. The causes of the flood must be investigated, even preventive measures. It's not as if the loss of lives didn't come back, but spiritual harm could be expressed. For example, 276 businesses, 152 commercial vehicles, 65 private cars found in our district of Hopa during the flood on August 24, 2015 have become unusable. 26 of the vehicles were lost in floodwaters. Also linked to the report by the AFAD authorities, where 239 dwellings became inhospitable. Our Arhavi and Hopa counties where the flood took place have reported that the land of 1,700 of our citizens in Hopa district has been damaged. It is allegedly lost in landslide, collapse, and so forth. It is said that 170 homes have been evacuated and 70 homes have been evacuated. 240 people were paid rent. 20 per cent of all findings are paid to the tradesman and citizens, while the remaining 80 per cent are a mystery when to pay. These figures belong to the district of Hopa, and we can also say that the similar painting is in Arhavi, Yazka and Murgul districts. As a result of the disaster, the entire population was alerted, and aid came from all over Turkey. But these are the help that saves the day. In order for the wounds to heal and normalize life, our government must show its power to its citizens. It is our citizens who claim that some of our institutions are using the help the government has sent for the disaster zone for their other needs. An error must be corrected if our institutions have to study disaster expenditures. Aids to the region and the sums paid to our citizens are insufficient. A detailed investigation of the region must be conducted, along with a parliamentary research commission, with a study involving scientists, and the report must be prepared immediately. The opening of the AFAD branch in the region, the support and support of teams such as AKUT, the providing of long-term long-term and postponsive loans supported by treasury support, and the construction of risky zones as settlements, the construction of housing in areas where housing owners have been reported as inadmissible, or the payment of housing costs for which they would see fit, work for the development of natural disaster awareness. It is again our great state that will heal the wounds of this natural disaster. We, as representatives of the nation, have to be in our districts of Arhavi, Hopa, Murgul and Boraka to deal with the problems of the nation, and to work in the disaster zone and eliminate the victims. In light of the above issues stated on 24 August 2015, Arhavi and Hopa pay tribute to the opening of the Parliamental Research Commission on Articles 104, 105, according to Articles 104, and 105, in order to determine the destruction of the flood in Murgul and Boraka districts in the region and to examine and repair the victims of our citizens. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The sinkhole formations are a natural disaster due to increased use of land in our country, and are common in the cognac basin. Studies indicate that some of the sinkholes in the basin are fossilised, some are still active. In particular, the sinkholes, which have gradually melted underground around the district of Karapınar, have grown to the extent that the area has become heavily concentrated in its socioeconomic development, causing damage to the fields, as well as to the life safety of the people in these areas. Over the past three months, the area has been ground to ground, in different diameters of about 70 metres deep, and in October 2015, the last one has been more than 10 meters in diameter, 7 meters deep. There are already around 200 sinkholes in the area, large and small. Karapınar is an agricultural-based district, but the development of sinkholes on agricultural land puts the farmer in a difficult position. When the people of the region who farm in fear see signs of sinkholes, they either give up their farms, or they sow their lives, at the risk of a sinkhole at any moment. Following a sinkhole in a cornfield in February 2008 in the district, an application to the MTA was launched by authorities to create a map of the region's risk. As a matter of fact, MTA officials occasionally come to the area and continue their work. Experts say it is not possible to prevent sinkholes that have occurred as a result of a four-million-year sub-structure, but say that the potential areas and about the size of the collapses can be determined as a result of studies. In light of the above information, I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliament under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine whether or not the sinkholes that occur at certain intervals are dangerous, to determine areas where possible collapses may occur, and to prevent possible loss of lives and goods following the detection of additional areas. 1) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[Zonguldak]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 5) Gamze Akkuş Isgez [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] 11) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] 12) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Edirne]] [[Janitor]] 16) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Paddles]] [[Slap]] [[İzmir]] 22) Zülfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Members of the Parliament, as the Court of Human Rights Commission appropriates the request to be referred to under Article 3 of the Article 34 of the First Amendment of the Act (1/596) under Article 34 of the Act of Equality of Women and Men's Opportunity Act (1/596) according to the Fourth Amendment of the Civil Code. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0113par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Tuesday 16/2/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On February 15, 2016, Diyarbakır MP Deputy Chair Çağlar Demirel proposed that "women be tortured and exposed naked in the middle of the street in the cities where curfews have been declared, and that such images should be presented in the same edition of the parliamentary inquiry submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to examine all aspects of the events of the media through their social media accounts. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Ayşe Acar Başaran, Batman MP. Here you are, Mr. Acar Basian. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0114par0018	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, many of our friends here have spoken about antidemocratic, violent practices against curfews all over the Kurdistan since 16 August 2015. But I'm going to discuss another dimension of these curfews here today to discuss the establishment of a parliamentary research commission on this matter. This is the practice that has grown especially to antidemocratic, illegitimate, and violent sizes of women during these curfews. First, the process, which began after the massacre of Ekin Van in Varto, which began with torture, torture, photographing, and especially exposure to social media, was reported in Silvio, where three of our female friends were wounded, but then their heads were cut to pieces and brutally slaughtered, and, finally, a number of immoral comments were made on social media, especially when we were labeled and displayed female bodies. The real reason for this kind of exposure is to intimidate women who are actually fighting all women's battles. In this particular way, we all know that women, Kurds women, the Kurdish community, are meant to suppress them in some way, to keep them out of the struggles. In the case of Ekin Van, if an effective and proper investigation had been carried out, today in Cizre, again, the concept of this psychological war on women would not have been implemented. Although the governor of Şırnak has made some statements in order to exonerate himself, we know it's Cizre. We have other images. It was Cizre. He was actually trying to send a message to all the women over that woman. It was a message that if you were to exercise your will, we would slaughter you and expose you like this. This, in fact, is not so independent of other women who have been slaughtered even today, who have been massacred all the time in Turkey, as well as of other women. We need to know this clearly, that through that exposed woman, power is actually trying to show how powerful his power is. This practice is a crime according to national and international law. However, unfortunately, there has been no explanation for any further investigations or steps to be made so far. No matter who the naked woman is, no matter who she is, I'm afraid we're seeing the stillness again when all the female MPs here today are supposed to come together and be a whole rebellion against this practice. But as I was saying, it was a message to all women who were exposed there today, in fact, to try to undermine the dignity of all women in this way, through this adult woman, to digest the entire society. Therefore, we call again from here: Come, let us set up a commission against these antidemocratic, illegitimate practices, and let us not leave our own home and decide on the governor's explanation of his room, which has no knowledge whatsoever. Let's go in there and identify all the people who did this app together and fight for the punishment together. If we don't get a commission here today, we're all going to be responsible for this, but first of all, we're going to be responsible for all of us as paralegal paralegals who let it go, who ignore it, who don't make a sound of it in all their social media accounts, and yet we're all going to be responsible for this immoral, immoral, illegitimate practice. You're not supposed to think that one day it won't be judged, that it won't go unpunished, because these practices there are considered crimes against humanity, and there is no statute of limitations on these crimes. You may remain silent today, you may not react at all today, but one day, surely, surely, those who do so will be judged. We need to face this practice, both in conscience and in religion, and we need to work together against it. So, as I said, especially through the woman, who's trying to cut her off, who's trying to keep her in the middle of four walls, who's trying to make her vulnerable, who's trying to block women's struggle, even if there's no commission here, come on, as women, let's all of us leave our identities aside if we need all of our political, ethnic, religious identities to find out for ourselves. If we don't identify it, as I said, we'll all be responsible, and there's no way we can escape that responsibility. For this reason, we expect your support, especially the support of the research motion we've submitted today -- none of it has been accepted until today -- at least by conscience, independent of all prejudices, to go and be identified there, especially with women's support. Thank you again.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0115par0026	Thank you, Mr. Acar Başaran. Against the proposal, Master Leyla Şahin, MP of the Conium. Here you go, Mr. Master. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0116par0031	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, I stand before you today to express our views against the HDP group proposal. I salute you all with respect and love. First of all, no matter what circumstances or circumstances, the privacy of the body is personal. Whether it's the body or the body of a dead person, this issue is guaranteed by national and international provisions, and we've been advocates to the end of it, and we'll be defenders from now on. Of course, we condemn this case with great remorse and violence, it's a human shame, and it's a crime of humanity. A smear campaign has been launched to break down the trust of our soldiers and all our security forces in the region and our citizens. This is a campaign to undermine the reputation of our soldiers in the region and of the Kurdish citizens, the elderly, the children, as well as the war against terrorism, while continuing the fight against terrorism. It's an intentional spread social media perception. To the attention of the Supreme Assembly, who has not been able to go out and publicly say that PKK....... is a terrorist organization and use the position of this nation to promote terrorist organizations at every opportunity, I submit that the proposal of the People's Democratic Party (HDP) is far from the truth and misleading. According to our governor's statement, the photo served on social media has nothing to do with Cizre. Investigations and investigations have been launched. Investigators have been assigned and continue their work in the region. The problem here is that we realize that there are no sacred elements of terrorist organizations. We're talking about an organization that bombs schools, places of worship, hospitals, kids playing in schools' gardens, attacks there with rocket launchers, and has no fear of martyring our soldiers, including the civilian population, our police. I'd like to say again in particular that the research and investigation into these social media photos has been launched. So we need to look at who and what these photographs serve, and I want to make it very clear here that, as a political group, the HDP's proposal was not sincere. I repeat: We must act more alert, more conscious, more consciously and more consciously in response to the attempts to discredit even the official statements of the Republic of Turkey's official institutions, although the governorship has made it official. We've protected everyone's rights and laws and their sanctity, and we'll protect them from now on. I'd like to emphasize again who and what they serve, by stressing that the images made here can't be accepted for anyone -- no woman, no man, no child -- can be accepted for any human being. The people who made this suggestion, unfortunately, together with the terrorists, drag the children of this people to their deaths and then cry with their families. Despite the fact that the speaker earlier was within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, there is no place where he referred to it as Kurdistan. It is located within the borders of the Republic of Turkey; it is southeastern and southeastern provinces of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0117par0042	Bravo!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0116par0044	Even if you say this place is Kurdistan 40 times, it is not true. It wouldn't be right if you said it 40 times.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0118par0046	Tell that to the president.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0116par0047	We've just got some other footage. You're taking credit for it, even by saying it. Why do you have these images in your hands and no one else has them?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0119par0048	Because you're sleeping.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0116par0049	What did you expect not to serve? Are you waiting for another time and another incident? All of this is a clear indication of how true and realistic the motion is presented and the country's agenda is being distorted by false and false events, and that's how I want to express my opinion on the motion. And with the compliments of our High Council, I give you once again my love and respect and thanks.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0120par0052	Thank you, Mr. Master. Second word in favour of suggestion...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0121par0054	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0122par0055	Mr. President, the orator who just spoke has stated that HDP is not sincere with this motion. I want a say in the matter of teasing.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0123par0057	Now, Mr. Ironel, the speaker, Mr. Master...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0122par0058	I mean, it meant something else, but I'm saying it first.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0124par0059	The whole speech is a tease.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0123par0060	I mean, I couldn't get a straight line from you. In what sentence did a situation occur that corresponds to Article 69?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0122par0061	The whole speech, the whole frame, actually, was a different statement about the motion that we made directly. He expressed that the motion given by HDP (HDP) was not sincere, even in his motion that his sincerity was not expressed. He said we're expressing false false information. He said that we're speaking out of reality. I think these are...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0123par0062	Mr. Demirel, I'm going to promise you according to Article 69, but beyond that, the political party groups on the motion will of course express their views. I don't take every expression within the 69th article, but I promise you in this frame, since you have expressed false information. Here you go, sir. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0125par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, everyone needs to be open to criticism, all parties need to be open to all opinions and opinions and criticism, but there's something concrete going on. We're talking about something concrete. We don't mean that. We didn't publish this visual either. Even when I asked him about it in the Budget Commission, he could have been there, it could have been done. Despite what he said, there is no such thing as an AKP MP and a woman MP. I mean, I'm really hard to understand. This is a coup intended for women's struggle. Exposure of the female body, killing the female body, torturing her, exposing her entire naked body as a result of torture... I don't understand how all parties and women in private can defend it, how they can't react to it. If the lie is wrong or unreal, let's expose it.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0126par0069	No one's defending him.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0125par0070	It's a coup intended for women's struggle. We'll never accept that. And they need to know that women's struggle and their will will will never back down with it.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0126par0071	We defend women's rights better than you, better than you. Don't lie and say the wrong thing in there!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0125par0072	In private, the AKP government needs to know.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0126par0073	We defend women's rights better. You can't just yell like that.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0125par0074	With such practices... we express to those who shout victory... that women's struggle will reveal everything.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0126par0075	Women's rights don't go there and drop bombs.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0125par0076	The woman's struggle will stand upright, her will will stand firm, and she will curse them all. They...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0126par0078	Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0127par0079	The state's police, the government's army, are screaming for victory. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0128par0080	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0129par0081	They can express it.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0127par0082	Who's screaming for victory? Are you uncomfortable with him?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0128par0083	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0129par0084	They're throwing these triumphal cries of the naked bodies... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But we'll wear the resistance. As women, we will wear the resistance of victory. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0130par0089	Go on with your resistance. We'll defend the army like lions. Tell me about it.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0131par0090	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. In favor of the proposal...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0132par0092	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0131par0093	Mr. Botanci, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0132par0094	Mr. President, the valuable speaker has mentioned that the torture of the naked female body and the use of the images there have been defended. No one here has made a statement to defend him.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0133par0095	Then you didn't listen to the speech.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0132par0096	It's a completely wrong impression, and it's an unfair argument. To get him on the books to clean this up.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0134par0097	It's in the transcripts. Thank you, Mr. Botanci. In favour of the proposal, Necati Yilmaz is entitled to the Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0135par0106	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on this motion that the People's Democratic Party's curfews be violated, that women be tortured to death and their dead bodies exposed in the streets, and that their images be shared on social media. Dear lawmakers, since I am primarily speaking on the agenda of the Assembly in 2016, I detect a serious lack of democracy, the level of freedom and the level of human rights in our country. I am here to bless all our citizens and security forces, who have died in the midst of terror and violence, which have revealed images that have shamed us to be human. In the region where the 13-year-old AKP power brought our country into a hot conflict, multiple human rights violations, particularly the right to live, have become ordinary, everyday events, especially the appearance of violence and hate, becoming more and more shaped over the female body, the transformation of the female body into a field of power and conflict is covered by infillity by all sides. First in Varto, then on the agenda of the public, then in Cizre, and then on the agenda of this research proposal, and on the bodies of women dragged naked in the middle of the street, I'm looking at an example of hate crimes and rhetorical events aimed at dividing society psychologically over the concept of integrity and honor. These women are the mother of the citizens of this country, women who are the sister of the citizens of this country, women who are the children of the citizens of this country. Dear MPs, what we're talking about is a matter of human rights violations, especially the right to life and human dignity, which have come to our country's agenda over the issue of counterterrorism. Dear lawmakers, the fight against terrorism is an indispensable duty to every state and its citizens. The government can't hold back a minute from this assignment and its obligation, and it can't be incomplete. Yet, another reason for being a state is to remain a state, to act in a stately manner. So what makes this struggle, in itself, legitimate, is being able to act within the rules of law, especially the Constitution. Sadly, it is not possible to say that your government is doing the same thing, acting accordingly. The state will fight terrorism at the same time, while fighting terrorism, avoiding the methods and unlawfulness of the terrorist organization. And while he is doing so, he will secure all freedoms of his citizen, especially the right of his civilian citizen; he will not forget that while he fights the criminal, the country's primary asset is to keep his citizen alive. Again, he will never, ever take his struggle out of legal and legitimate ways. The principle of the constitutional order, where political powers are restricted to the law, is that there is no pleasure, the protection of the dignity of the person under legal and legitimate circumstances, of his material and spiritual existence. The most positive result is that human rights and freedoms are under the protection of the law, that judgment and execution never stray from the law. In this sense, the fundamental framework is laid out in the fifth paragraph of the initial provisions of our Constitution, and again in the 5th article, which regulates the purposes and duties of the state, in Article 15 concerning basic rights and freedoms, and again in Article 17 (the article) which regulates the immunity and material existence of the person. In the third part of the 17th article of our Constitution, no one can be tortured or tortured; no one can be subjected to punishment or treatment that is incompatible with human dignity. The ban on torture is also part of the core in Article 15, which will not be restricted under any circumstances, and in cases set in the first joke, the right to life can not be touched except in the cases of death due to the laws of war and the integrity of his material and spiritual existence. parallel arrangements for this arrangement in the Constitution are also part of our penal code. Dear lawmakers have sided with this direct regulation of domestic law, as well as many international human rights agreements on the ban on torture and inhumane treatment. Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights is signed by Turkey on the International Convention on Personal and Political Rights of the United Nations, Article 7 of the International Convention on Personal and Political Rights, Article 7 of the International Convention on Human Rights, and the European Convention on Human Rights of Human Rights. Finally, the European Council's Convention on Anti-Terrorism, which took effect on 1 June 2007, is in effect as of 1 July 2012 in our country. The 12th article, titled "Secrets," has organised that the entity should respect the rights of the state in the fight against terrorism; on each side, the agreement on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, international civil and political rights contract, and on the other side of the contract, and on the contrary, its conduct, especially on the part of the contract, has been charged with the obligation of the entity to criminalise matters that are included in Articles 5 to 7 and 9. Of course, these contracts have been part of our internal law under the 90th article of our Constitution. In a nutshell, the protection of women and children is guaranteed by international contracts, even during the war. Dear MPs, at the time of these violations, these periods are particularly extraordinary in our country and in our world. So war is a period of martial law and extraordinary state. So the impact is the junta period. These are times when one's own, life and physical integrity, was targeted and all freedoms were systematically violated or even destroyed. In our recent history, this is the period of March 12 coup, the period of September 12 coup, and the period of the coup today is the period of the AKP (AKP) who did not even consider himself bound by law. It's the same and the same in all times of impact. Dear MPs, these are times when authority is not questioned, law is not enforced, political power is not accountable. These are the times in the life market when people have to worry about their lives, about their lives. Who wants these periods? Those who do not want to be questioned, who do not want to be audited, who are afraid to answer to society and the law. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, the harsh conditions of such dark and extraordinary times of governance and all the suffering and consequences they have inflicted on us will be covered or unrecognizably put behind us one day. However, we know that there are three other things left in such dark times, during such times of conflict: one, army of the dead; two, army of orphans; three, army of thieves. And that's all that's left. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, we need to underline that the body dragged on the floor, even if it was the body of a criminal, is dead, it's dead. What message is being sent, what is being asked to be dragged by this body? What are the effects that are intended to be created? Its effect is clear, clear; the feeling among the people, among the people, is hatred, hatred. Who wants that feeling, who wants that, who's gonna make a future out of it? First of all, it's the government that needs to get away from it, it's the government. Therefore, dear friends, it is not acceptable for us to have such accusations of security forces. Political power must, of course, account for everything it has done, under law and other control mechanisms. Therefore, this motion must be accepted and Turkey must stop dealing with that shame. If such a history exists during this period, our country must at least experience the comfort of revealing it. Dear lawmakers, we can repair the ruined cities, we can plant the fallen trees, we can redefine the infrastructure of our cities, but we have a very serious difficulty in removing the effect of these events, the love bonding between individuals in society. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And of course, we can face great difficulties in sustaining and raising our desire to live together. I want, and I wish that this enlightenment that we will experience will contribute to our future life together. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0136par0130	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0137par0131	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0136par0132	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0137par0133	I'd like to make a brief statement based on the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0136par0134	I'll turn on your microphone according to the Civil Code 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0137par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. We're discussing an extremely important matter. So, we're having a discussion about the initiative of Parliament for a crime committed against humanity that none of us can be insensitive when we consider both humanly and morally, conscientiously, religiously, religiously. So I'd like to express a few things in terms of helping all lawmakers to at least show their will in this matter. But before that, I'd like to point out that we don't accept the issue of the People's Republican People's Party as the Democratic Party of Peoples, which has just spoken on behalf of the People's Party, regardless of its intentions. In describing a woman's identity, they can be our wife, they can be our mother's, they can be our mother's. On the other hand, Mr. AKP's orator on the stand used a number of sentences that would mean that the incident was not true or that it was not true to the statement of Şırnak Governorate. I'll tell you this: I'll give you two examples of how reliable the statement of Şırnak Governor's office is.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0138par0142	He's more reliable than you!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0139par0143	He's more reliable than you!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0137par0144	Recently, during the resolving process, when the villagers of Roboski were driven by their mules by the order of the Governor himself, when they were slaughtered, the authorities officially committed suicide for those mules.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0140par0146	I'm going to turn on your microphone and finish your words, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0137par0147	The mules committed suicide. We're talking about a person who demonstrated his credibility and seriousness. Again, with regard to these basements of brutality, those basements were raided in the TRT channels and the subtitles of over 60 people were disabled, and there, only 10 terrorists were neutralized. He made an operational statement in the form of an operation. As of today, we all know that the number 10 corresponds to 145 funerals in the basements that were later reached. Therefore, I would like to point out that in such an important matter, especially as a female proxy, the approach to a governor, or governor, is not right. Previously on Varto... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... that both the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary had ordered an investigation and that they would never accept it. Today's approach is supposed to be the same. We don't know what the outcome of that investigation is. Maybe if we had known the outcome of the investigation, we wouldn't be living in this land again, with all of our consciences committed as a crime against humanity. Therefore, I especially ask that AKP MPs consider this information during voting on this proposal.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0141par0154	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0142par0157	Mr. President, thank you very much. Today, our member of the Party Assembly, one of the young and female members of our Party Assembly, Attorney Sera Kadıgil, 44 in the Calash. At the original Criminal Court, he was tried as a defendant and sentenced to a year and nine months in prison. He was sentenced for a definition of the Republican People's Party's institutional identity in a case he defended. First, I would like to stress the fact that a lawyer should not be tried in the criminal court and that he cannot be tried beyond severe punishment, and then I would like to share with the Supreme Assembly the words of Erdogan's regime, which would deprive a young and female politician of his freedom for a year and nine months, underline the fact that the execution of the defence profession can never be brought to trial and investigation. Sera Kadıgil was sentenced to this punishment for insulting the President for using the definition of the Erdogan regime, the authoritarian in a case defending the Republican People's Party's institutional identity. Of course, we hope that this judicial process will be completed and that it will not be approved in the upper court, but if it is approved, Sera Kadıgil will seek her rights in both Turkey and international law. I would also like to present to the Parliament the information that Sera Kadigil, as the Republican People's Party, is behind this young woman politician, who has been given a punishment to prove exactly how her definition became a reality. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0143par0160	Thank you, Mr. Special. İstanbul MP Haydar Ali Yıldız has the second say against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Star. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0144par0168	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY group following the HDP group proposal. On this occasion, I salute you. Before the group's proposal, I'd like to answer a question that has been discussed here and asked on behalf of myself. We can all find an answer to the question of why this happened in Syria a hundred years ago. A hundred years ago, in this land, there was a Russian Sazonov, who was not named Sykes-Picot and, as today, was subject to the agreement between Sykes and Picot. Their goal was to reach Baku oils and establish British and French sovereignty in the Syrian region, weapons sovereignty, and sovereignty over oil. Later, after the war, they formed an organization called the United Nations. Its foundation is based on the Treaty of Versailles. There, they formed this organization for the recognition of states that would be established after the Ottoman Empire on a legal and legitimate basis, and a hundred years later, Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that the world is greater than the 5th. When he said that today, we should say as Parliament, that if the United Nations is established in this land to establish a legitimate basis, we should say that the world is greater than 5. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, from time to time, negotiations can be held, talks can be made in the media and here, under the name of self - control. In his book The Seven Columns of Knowledge, Lawrence's Government of England promised autonomy and autonomy to the people in the region, promising them to give them British sovereignty again. I wanted to share these with you as a historical record. As for the group proposal, of course, the exposure of a woman's body on social media is unacceptable in our beliefs, in our values, in our values of civilization, in our customs, in our tradition. But our belief tells us that when someone gives you a message -- if we talk about the image on social media in this case -- look for the source. Of course, our state is a state of law, a state based on the rule of law and the dignity of man. In this sense, the legal department will have the necessary research and investigation into this, and if there is any involvement, the criminals will be punished. The Republic of Turkey has been a country that has been struggling to exist in this land for a thousand years, with a long-standing civilization. We're a nation that has fought the battle of existence over and over again in this land. What matters is who stands where they stand at times like this, the way they stand in the face of history and people. History and nation record heroes and traitors, and the land records its martyrs for the country and the terrorist who sheds blood on the ground. In this regard, our fundamental paradigm as a state has been expressed by our President and Prime Minister. It's the rule of law. It's a definition of a counterterrorism. The goal is to continue the fight against terrorism until it establishes public order, and in terms of purpose, coverage and surprise, whoever it is, wherever it is, whether it's called the PKK, PYD, YPG, DHKP-C, DEAS, parallel and similar organisations are a terrorist organization. Our state and our nation hand-to-hand fight against these terrorist organizations, in accordance with the rule of law, in the balance of freedom and security, in accordance with the constitution and laws; in accordance with international, universal human rights and freedoms, it will continue its fight in a way that suits a legal state, and it will bring its responsible to justice. Of course, those who want to surround Turkey with terror here want to bring Turkey to its knees. History bears witness that this nation is a people who bow to no one but God. And with terror, no one will be able to bring this nation to its knees and bring it to its knees. Yes, with group proposals, different issues will be discussed in our Parliament, but the solution is to make together a constitution based on the presidency, based on human honor, based on the nation, based on our ancient tradition, based on our values of civilization, that smells of nation, that smells of history, that smells of history. We're the reporters, Turkey is the Grand National Assembly. I'd like to finish my words with a word from Ziya Pasha. ▪ Even if loyalty suits a person, Ýrah God helps the righteous. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0145par0182	Thank you, Mr. Star. Mr. Hawk, do you have a request for a statement?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0146par0184	Mr. President, in my speech on photographs, they made it sound like I was defending it, even though I said I wasn't defending it. I'd like to take your word for it.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0145par0185	According to the 60th article, you have a request for your position, so I understand.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0146par0186	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0145par0187	Here, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0146par0190	My esteemed President and our esteemed lawmakers, despite the fact that I have insisted in my speech that these images, not just pictures of women, have accused me as if I were the opposite, even though I said that these images are images that can't be done to a man's body, not even to a man's body, not to any animal, not to any animal, not even to be used or served. I'd like to rephrase that that's not the case. The photos that are being served are photographs that will not be accepted in any way, but we have been treated with respect to human rights and law with respect to all the values that we have always considered sacred, as well as to who and what it serves and how it should be re-enacted that this matter has nothing to do with Cizre. From now on, we will maintain that attitude. So I'd like to ask all political groups in particular to listen carefully to the words spoken during the talks and to make sense of these statements without twisting them. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0145par0192	Thank you, Mr. Hawkmaster. Mr. Demirel, I believe you have a request for your place. Here, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0147par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, this proposal is of course unique to both right violations of women's murders, women's tortures and women's thoughts. This, in fact, has to be understood in this way: No matter what happens, there is an explanation in the TCK, where no body can be tortured or exposed, and there is no such thing in any law or morality. So, we have a demand at the point where the media or the websites are being investigated. You know, let's start by saying that we don't think it's right that this agenda is brought up, and that this particular condition on the female body should be brought together and shared with other subjects. So let's just say that this has nothing to do with the process of solutions, or the presidential system, or a statement that says it's going to be resolved by the constitution's presidential system. This is a violation of human rights, women's rights, national and international contracts. So, if we all, all of us, all of us, want to find out the truth, if we're all to blame -- which everyone is condemning -- let's find out who did it, who did it, who did it, who did it, who did it. It doesn't matter where he is, it doesn't matter who he is to us, but let's do research on those who did, who gave the order, and who made it look like victory. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0148par0200	Here, finish your words.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0147par0201	Whoever did this, whoever did this, this savage situation, if we're all to blame together, then let this Parliament carry out a first. As women, it's our call as women in all political parties, our call to all political parties: if we condemn this violence, let's investigate it together. Let's all set up a commission - if we don't agree - let's go together, investigate, and expose. Let's just say whoever did it, let's let the judge do whatever punishment it takes, and let's all come to a decision here. If we don't accept this motion, then we'll be complicit in this crime. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0148par0203	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0149par0204	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0148par0208	I will submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes. Before I put the proposal to the vote, I'm going to look for enough to vote, since there's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. Those who accept the offer... those who do not... the proposal is not accepted, there is enough to decide. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to ask that my Law Proposal 2/159 be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. The bidder is Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0150par0223	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. After a harsh, bloody, bitter, black winter, we prepare for a new spring. Every day in the Middle East, there is no hope for spring when our people are being killed every day in Turkey. With today's policies, the government gains nothing for anyone but those who seek war, those who promote war. As those who value human life, not killing, but keeping it alive, as those who aim for peace within and outside Turkey, we will create hope ourselves. Dear lawmakers, anyone who sits in these seats from any party is obliged to make an effort for Turkey, for all the people it represents. The voters who sent us here didn't send us to create new conflicts and wars, but to bring peace to the country. But those who run this policy seem to be an insurmountable gambler with Syrian policies, lose more and lose more and lose more and lose more and more into this policy, spend the country's future on their own ambitions. Today, those who see the way to become an influential actor of the Middle East try to deceive all the peoples of Turkey. We see together what wars, ethnic wars can do to the Middle East. It's not strategic depth, it's strategy-free insanity. Dear MPs, March 21st, from Caucasus to the Middle East is the spring feast for the people of all this geography, the good news, the time to come out of darkness, the triumph of life over death, the rebirth, the hope of persecution against the oppressor. We don't want the blood of our children, our young, our women, our men, who sprout in the spring to bleed. There is still a chance for our people to celebrate the way they deserve, a new peace, a new brotherhood climate, all together. Despite all conflicting policies, most of Turkey's people are still not in favor of fighting with each other and abroad, but are still waiting for politics to bring peace in the dorm and in this geography. Thousands of our people still cry out for peace, from Sur, from Cizre, from Silopi, from Nusaybin, from Idil, from Susova. So we try to be the voice of those who want to keep a man alive, not kill him, all over Turkey, from Izmir to Edirne, to Tripoli. If politics comes in, security issues will be solved. This House has the power. It was founded during the war. It's the House of a republic that appreciates peace and parliament. Dear friends -- for the record -- very dark identities, names are on the line today. The war environment feeds dark people like this. And I'm getting threats that I have to take seriously these days. I'm dealing with strange events that are extremely suspicious. If we hadn't had the killings of dear Hrant Dink and Tahir Elçi, if the dark web of murders that took them out of their prime had been solved, no friends, no politicians, no people who were interested in politics would have been under threat today. However, that dark net is active. I'm reporting that if any harm comes to me, if any harm befalls my relatives, if this government, as a representative of this nation, threatens me and the likes of me, can't protect us, then it's on its own. Dear MPs, we can celebrate the festival of all this geography together, bring peace and the rebirth of politics, no matter what you say. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0151par0231	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Şenal Sarıhan, Ankara MP who asked for a statement in the context of an MP under Article 37. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0152par0236	My dear President, my dear fellow clerks, my dear lawmakers and other fellow workers, I will try to present to you my thoughts on the agenda of the law proposal which has just been submitted to your knowledge by my friend. It was about the feast of Nevruz. We demand the formalization of a holiday day. You all know that whether it's national festivals or festivals that depend on our traditions and customs or religious beliefs, these are the days in which citizens living within the borders of that country develop their sense of brotherhood, their feelings of living together, having a shared past, and building a common future. No matter what festivals, whether it's our religious festivals or our national festivals or the days that have become a holiday day of tradition and tradition. You know, the Festival of Nevruz is actually the festivals that have been celebrated for years in both Turks and Kurds. This is the day that is said to have been celebrated since the 8th century before the beginning of the 18th century by all the Turkish tribes and communities from East Turkistan to the Balkans, when the rainbows melted out of Ergenekon from iron and emerged from the mountain and expressed the arrival of spring and the awakening of nature. Turkish republics are also an official holiday. Ancient Egypt, Iran, Safavi, Sasani, Mongols, Seljucians and Ottomans celebrated this day as a holiday. You know, our mesir festivals at Manisa have actually come from the concept of Nevrusia and have been based on Manisa festivals, meaning putty. In Alevi and Bektashi, it is referred to as the March 9. In Kurdish tradition, it is a day in which our friends from Kurdish ethnic origin, and in the traditions of citizens, are celebrated as a symbol of the new birth, Düzi, a symbol of the Sumerian faith. And we also know that this day, like the legend of Ergenekon, like the story of Kawa, is expressed as a wake of the people's persecution, and we know such stories. Now, let's look at our own history, our own recent history. I've come across something that I'd like to share with you: The Judgement-I-National Journal of March 21, 1922 is the semi-official newspaper of that day. There is a report in the 461st issue, which says: "Tomorrow, after the continent in our city, in the name of Neurosis, will carry out an official parade in front of the Grand National Assembly, the city will travel around the city. " Now, right after the Liberation War, the celebration of the Festival of Nevruz was described as a holiday day that would feed the will to live in common within our borders, regardless of the origins of Turkey, Kurd, and Turkey. Now, I believe it will be a day in which we will be able to open up and strengthen our unity and brotherhood, as we have lived so recently and so recently, by observing the purpose of not turning the Nevruz festivals into a pool of blood. I respectfully submit to your knowledge. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0153par0244	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move on to "The Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" on the agenda. We will resume our talks with the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions in the 1st ranked 1st place, where we will continue our talks with the Constitutional Bill and Industry, Trade, Energy, Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The 38th Amendment, dated February 11, 2016, was adopted in the second chapter of the draft bill, which was considered the main law according to Article 91. On the 16th article, there are three proposals, two of which are identical. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, ranking 97, and the amendments to certain Law and Laws shall be made in accordance with Article 16 of the Law Bill. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Tüğim Çetin Baki Simsek Mustafa Mit İsmail Ok Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions, and I'm going to make a separate commitment to those who have the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 16 of the Law Bill 97 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mizgin Irgat Ahmet Yıldırım Ertuğrul Furçı The signatures of the other motion are: Gaye Bezeler İbrahim Özdish Kazim lion Does the commission agree with the motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Kazim Arlen, Denizli MP who wants to speak on the same motions. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0154par0282	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 16th amendment of the proposed bill. First of all, I salute you with love. First of all, today is Istanbul 44. In fact, Attorney Sera Kadıgil of the Criminal Court of Justice is a decision against the fact that the sentence against our friend has been made, an unjust verdict, a violation of the law, and I hereby declare it in your presence. My dear friends, in this article -- which is asked to be included -- is asked to be removed from the process of taking part -- and we think it should remain in place. As the Republican People's Party, we specifically request that the RD Act, which we are generally optimistic about, be cleared of its shortcomings during the Commission and the General Assembly, and remove any issues that give the Ministry excessive authority. I would like to point out that as a friend of yours from the business world, it is also necessary to bring forward studies that respond to the expectations of the business world, continue their work regardless of their demands, and especially the energy, fuel, natural gas and tax burden that affect the costs of R&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;m. This law aims to support the revenues that young academics will receive from projects and to gain more income within the framework of their project. While we are discussing how many incentives and tax reductions will be provided by the RD bill, our industrialist expects far more comprehensive reforms from us as we speak. In Davos, countries of the world are discussing the fourth industrial revolution. And that's where I want to emphasize the importance of once again bringing our industry up, especially human-oriented, productive, and investment-oriented. When we look at the virtual world, especially in the virtual world, where the walls between the virtual world and the real world will be completely destroyed, a whole new look at technology will be involved, and as the basic dynamics of a new industrial society, I would like to express specifically that our country's education is capable from an early age. There is a great need for a generation that has studied science, supported by the information system, asked, questioned, and studied freely and kept up with progress. So in the face of these fundamental dynamics, in the horizon of power and in the laws of law, unfortunately, we can't see them. Dear lawmakers, this bill is a preparation to save the day. It turns out that while the world is preparing for its 2020 years with RD investments for the fourth industrial revolution, with major reforms in education, we're working far behind it. We have to re-emerge a Turkish university that values production and the importance of high-tech education, values vocational and technical schools, is founded by autonomous universities, does their work in this field, is co-operation with the university-industrial community, and produces more valuable products. Therefore, I'm finishing with the wish of a Turkey that's trying to move its industry forward, which is important to invest in human capital. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0155par0294	Thank you, Mr. lion. On behalf of the co-signers of the second motion, Ertugrul Kürkcı, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Furcier. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0156par0299	Mr. President, my dear friends, we have made a motion to change this 16th article, to remove it completely, but in fact, this amendment motion does not stop us from having another discussion of the entire spirit of the bill. First of all, one of the most intriguing chapters will be the main sciences, master's degree, doctoral education, and the opening of qualified foreign studies to make the country a center of attraction in science and technology. But it's a truly remarkable goal. But what needs to be done about this is not to make law, but to make Turkey's universities internationally and Turkey's research development activities a serious, new value-giving centre for humanity. And this is the cornerstone of peace and peace. Where there is no peace, let the tourists tell you about the decline in the number of foreigners coming to Turkey to visit Turkey in a place where Turkey calculates which country it will bring its troops into every day and spreads its accounts from widespread media. I don't even have to tell you anything. Antalya ejaculated, the number of tourists arriving in Istanbul has dropped greatly. It's basically a business that doesn't attract people's attention because Turkey isn't seen as a peace country all over the country based on tourism, to introduce yourself to the international field. So, I think, instead of taking out this law -- and this law itself has very serious problems -- can the government try to make Turkey a peace country? If he does, there will already be eyes from all over the world to gain his share of this rising prosperity and peace without even making a law for it. In addition, however, the basic requirement for the fullum of research development activities is freedom of thought and expression. You, the troubled research areas, the compromised experience areas...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0157par0303	Mr. President, the humming is too much.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0158par0304	Mr. Furry, one moment, sir... Dear friends, I feel a hum in the General Assembly. We'll listen a lot better if we're quiet. Thank you. Go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0159par0308	We're already talking to the public, people who don't listen, it doesn't matter, people are listening. No matter how much you invest in research-revealing activities while their field of impropriety is growing, while their deficiencies are increasing, none of the main thinkers will be able to assess those possibilities for themselves. Because in fact, you know what happens to everyone who sees the need to enter the areas where the government says the government is forbidden to investigate. For years, Kurdistan research was a forbidden issue in Turkey, and Armenian genocide research was a forbidden issue. Turkey is now becoming increasingly philosophical, and the bans also reproduce one by one. For example, there's no need to tell us what kind of university would offer us the pressures of evolutionary theory getting kicked out of college, replacing it with the belief in creation. For all these reasons, tell them that you want to consider the environmental factor as much as you want, once Turkey has signed the Kyoto Agreement, it has not signed. Turkey is essentially unwilling to put obstacles in its own way in the matter of carbon emissions. How, then, will an environmentally sensitive ecological approach be provided with this law? This is actually an oxymoron, which is a term that the first term denies the second term. That's why the essence of this law and all of its articles are in fact a rush to Turkey's international area... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the main problems in the effort to grow are the effort to jump in magic boots.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0160par0313	Mr. Furman...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0159par0314	But there's no magic boots like that, except to turn your face to the public.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0160par0316	Thank you. I was going to make you an additional promise because I just had to step in, but I don't think that's necessary.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0159par0318	That's enough.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0160par0319	Okay, thank you. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who don't accept... those who don't... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, ranking 97, and the amendments to certain Law and Laws shall be made in accordance with Article 16 of the Law Bill. Ismail Ok (Fishesir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0161par0328	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0160par0329	Ismail Ok, Balıkesir MP who has asked for a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Ok. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0162par0333	I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 16 of Bill 97. First of all, Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Unfortunately, all social communities in our country are in great distress, but especially the Turkish peasant and farmer, the milk producers in Balıkesir are in unprecedented trouble these days. Because as a result of the wrong domestic and foreign policies the government has implemented, the wrong agricultural policies are currently unable to find a market in Balıkesir where milk producers will give their milk. I'd like to briefly review 13 years of the Justice and Development Party over some figures. Between 2002 and 15 years, our farmers were given 80 billion dollars in support in 13 years. So, this much support, what's the bottom line? Unfortunately, the number of farmers, agricultural production and accrued areas have been severely reduced. Agricultural imports are booming. Unfortunately, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, we imported hay. Not only that, we're now importing live animals for sacrifice. A total of 3,300,000 head animals and 193,045 tons of carcas were imported. In 13 years, support for the farmer has been largely imported, so the farmers of import countries have been supported by money collected from public taxes. In 13 years, a total of 75 billion dollars in agriculture and food products were imported. For years, problems have not been solved by importing live animals and meat. Although imports are not always the answer, this policy remains persistent. Unfortunately, the meadows, the green areas are reserved for public housing. In the 1990s, the field of mera and meadows, which were 24 billion hectares, was reduced to 9 to 10 billion hectares today. I mean, our animals have to feed on instant bait. This leads us to animalism, which is dependent on the outside, which is based on imports, and as a result, costs are increasing rapidly. The import of meat is to hit our own farmer, and our opponent is to support the farmers of other countries. In short, neither the manufacturer nor the consumer are satisfied. So, who's happy about it? The solution is possible by reducing costs and increasing production. Farmers are miserable, meat and milk producers are on the verge of bankruptcy. Milk producers can't sell their milk, sellers can't get paid, even though they're selling underpriced. We're approaching the spring period, where milk production will increase more, but the milk supply is rapidly slowing down. If the problems with milk are not solved and there is no sustainable milk production, one of the biggest crises in the history of animalism can occur. It's not easy to handle a crisis like this. Although the price of milk reference has not increased since July 1, 2014, even though the price of a liter is $1.15, manufacturers today cannot sell their milk for 90 cents. What's worse is that companies are starting to quit milking and stop milking. Milk prices have been paid in 15 days and are now paid in two or three months. In fact, in two or three months, the payments have been submitted to our producers. As a result, dairy producers are rapidly increasing their cow cuts. Since the price of milk does not cover its costs, the situation today is worse than the 2008 crisis. If it's not taken care of, we're facing bigger crises today, just as millions of milk cows have been slaughtered in the 2008 crisis. Our time is very limited, but our farmer's problems are very big, especially the milk producers' problems. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I would especially like to address the ruling party's deputies here. The student's poor don't get rich, the student always needs help. If we don't find a solution to the milk crisis immediately, our milk producers and meat producers will go bankrupt in Turkey, as in Balıkesir. That's why I'm saying that our college students -- our government's power is capable of this -- and not only in the primary classes, but in primary schools and upper secondary schools, all students should be given free milk. Of course, it's not a solution. The solution is that we do not follow an external bait policy with the destruction of mera fields; the solution is to stop imports, transfer the money to Turkish villagers and Turkish farmers.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0163par0342	Thank you, Mr. Ok.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0162par0343	Otherwise, the Turkish peasant and the farmer and especially the milk producers, Balıkesir (i.e. Balıkesir), Turkey's largest milk production and white meat, the center of red meat production, are expecting huge reactions to our Balıkesir (e.g. Balıkesir) and Turkey (i.e. Turkey). Mr. President, thank you for your understanding, it's very important. Today, our farmers spill their milk on the streets. The government must find a solution to this immediately. Otherwise, as I've just said, millions of milk cows are being slaughtered. Our farmers are on the verge of bankruptcy. On this occasion, again, for the sake of their understanding in the first place, I give greetings and greetings to our President and the High Council.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0164par0348	Thank you, Mr. Ok. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There are three motions on the 17th article, and I will process them according to the order of violation. Now, I'm going to read the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of research and development shall be changed into Article 17 of Law Bill 97 which is currently in session. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mizgin Irgat Ahmet Yıldırım Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions in Number 97, we request and propose that the statement be changed in the Technological Development Areas, in the 17th Article of the Law Charter of Some Laws and Laws. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet N. Ahrazoğlu Kamil Aydın Mustafa Kalaycı Umit Özdağ Bakı Simsek Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition, we propose and propose that the documents of the documents provided by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology to be developed and evaluated by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology and the Turkish Institute of Scientific and Technological Research, as a result of the AR-G project, and the documentation of the documentation of products that have been established by the Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Agency. Kazim Arslan Ali Sugar Haluk Pekşen Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Haluk Pekşen MP, who has asked for a statement on the commission's and the government's non-committee's motion. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0165par0380	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, you all know that we are about to face a major economic crisis in Turkey's process. Turkey has five major sectors; one is agriculture, one is tourism, automotive, foreign contractor services and textiles. Currently, Turkey is facing a major economic crisis, especially in the sectors of tourism and foreign contractor services, following the Russian plane crisis. Tourism has lost about 38 per cent of the booking, while the contractors have lost 62 billion dollars in contracts with Russia alone. While all this was happening, we also wondered how the government had taken the measure of these crises, how these crises had been reflected in the sectors, what they had done to prevent the collapse of sectors, but so far, there were no tangible, serious measures. Now, very valuable MPs, I have an IPK decision from the late government of Demirel, who served on 21/9/1992. At that time, in Iraq, many of Turkey's companies were in crisis due to Iraqi policy, and the NGO is meeting at that time. I also salute our Minister Ilhan Kesici, who was the most precious undersecretary of the YPK, who was in office, signed under this decree. At that time, the government said that it was very important that these companies were able to survive in the sector -- tax debts, SEC debt, bank loans, configurations, discounted by Eximbank, and supported by non-interest loans, cheap loans -- because our government knew that once these companies left the sector, once again, they would not be able to enter the market, that market. Now, we've lost a great deal in construction services in Russia, in textiles, in Denizli, Adıyaman, Kahramanmarash, Gaziantep. We're losing too much in tourism, there's a tremendous loss of reservations. You're offering 6,000 dollars in support of planes that only come to Turkey. Guys, there's no point in getting six grand in fuel support on a plane that's not gonna carry a tourist that's not coming. It's just acting like you're giving a specific support. We had a similar crisis in 2000... in 1999 with an earthquake. At the time, the government gave great support for foreign promotions, and then, along with the YPK decision, they took very serious measures to sustain these sectors. Currently, 37 per cent of the exports of fruits, vegetables are being carried out, especially in Samsun, and in the province of Tripoli, where I served as a deputy, and unfortunately, a large portion of the companies in that sector have failed. Of course, not only in Tripoli, Samsun, but also in Mersin, Denizli, many logistics companies collapse in the economic crisis. It's not easy for these companies to reintegrate the economy. The fact that the government does not take measures against them is, in fact, unexplainable. Moreover, these capital groups, our key industrialists representing Turkey's industrial groups, have also voted for the government's political party. Now, we know that those people are in great poverty, desperate. We're recommending that we take an immediate YPK measure, but I'm sure, Mr Kesici, if you'd like some support in making these preparations, I'm sure you'll have your support on this. He's already left an open door in the budget talk. I'd like to say that we're prepared to provide any kind of support in this matter. Mr. Secretary, by the way, you've shared your vision plan for the Plan and Budget Commission. Let me tell you something about that. You came to Tripoli, where you made a promise of an investment island. I didn't see the investment island in this. Did you forget, or did the investment island sleep with the elections being held? We Tripolians will grant you leniency in this matter. We assume you've forgotten this year. Hopefully, you'll put it in next year's budget, but if you don't, rest assured, we'll keep track of it. I respectfully salute the General Assembly for listening. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0166par0389	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen. It's about the speech, if I may make a brief statement. According to Article 60, you have a request, Mr. Secretary. Here you go. Mr. President, there's been a very comprehensive assessment of the matters expressed by the minister today at the Council of Ministers. It will be a very comprehensive package for the tourism industry, which our Prime Minister himself will announce on Monday. I'd like to bring you the information of the General Assembly. Tripoli's investment island is a project of our government, and it will continue. However, we take into account the issues that enter the investment program. This is a project of our government and it will be implemented. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions in Number 97, we request and propose that the statement be changed in the Technological Development Areas, in the 17th Article of the Law Charter of Some Laws and Laws. Kamil Aydın (Erzurum) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Kamil Aydın, Erzurum MP on a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0167par0414	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party for a slight change in the matter, but I have made a commitment to address the contents of my speech... from the opening of the board at the point of consideration of a very important matter so far. Sir, our southern border, our long border, said 900 or so kilometers, my friends, the experts. At this point, we're already having a security issue, both inside and out. One of our fellow lawmakers said: "We always talk about results." True, we always talk about results, we never question reasons, but in order to achieve success in domestic and foreign politics, we must create very strong reasons. When we look at Western democracies, we see these examples very clearly. I mean, we don't have a very healthy paradigm in and out of both our short, medium and long-term politics, we don't have a very healthy paradigm, we don't have a reason. How do we know that? So, by talking about the results, the axis of our politics, the axis of our politics, is going to be, maybe from time to time, or maybe it's going to be, or it's going to be, maybe it's going to be, maybe it's going to be, maybe it's going to be, it's going to be, you know, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, To make this a little concrete, see what we're discussing: yesterday, were we or were we not friends with the YPG? Was the government not flirting with them? No, less flirting, more flirting; sir, we were together, sir; were we not together, sir, if the terror was over, if it was over, or if it was for the sake of creating a paradigm, believe... Look, you know who makes paradigm in Western democracies -- not only does long-term politics form power in the hands of political men -- but on the contrary, the culture of consultation, in our nature, in our tradition, is created by the common mind as it is expressed today. What's all this? Sir, political actors are institutions. What institutions are they? It is the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Turkish Armed Forces, the MET, the NGOs, the research centres of universities. But today we see that when Turkey is creating a political paradigm, we only look at one person, as if we knew everything -- as if it were powerful in everything. Some of our friends sometimes make these kind of phrases, that sort of thing. Friends, the more a paradigm is discussed with the confederates, with the group of consultations created, with the healthier results if concluded. That's why we get unhealthy results. The United States -- whether it's Bush or Clinton, or Obama who came after him -- has made no difference to Middle Eastern policy in the Middle East project. Sir, there's been a major change in governance in England in 1991; conservatives are gone, Tony Blair's Labour Party has arrived, but there's no change in implementation in the Middle East project, Great Britain. But for some reason, it's a tradition for us to break someone's work, and yet we have our paradigm. The Founder's will said: "There is peace in the land, peace in the Jihad." For God's sake, what is missing from it, and what is wrong with it? I ask the High Council: What do we want? Are we going to call this paradigm a war in yurtta, war in jihanda, war in China, peace in the dorm. Or should we say war in war and war in the dorm? Whatever we don't like about it, let's get together with the confederates and create it as soon as possible. I'm reporting from experience: It's 2009, with a prediction from our President-in-Chief of the Leader Country, Turkey. Unfortunately, it's a project today that has been scratched by the AKP, it's the vision of the National Party of Action. We go to panels on Turkey, where we hold conferences. I remember, I used a map in one of our provinces. 2006, a map used at the NATO training meeting in Rome, and that map that we're living on today... was shown on the new agenda today, and we used it, oh, wow, there are very deep accounts on Turkey. This map is being converted into action. We said, "We've been underestimated." But today, we see that as of this point, there are regrets. Sir, Turkey has always been there for the underdogs. It's a rhetorical statement. While Turkey stands by the underdogs, it is oppressed, precious MPs. Sir, there's a beka problem in Turkey. It's not enough. We're redesigning a region of Turkey; I say they're rhetorical, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0168par0421	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I submit the motion to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of research and development shall be changed into Article 17 of Law Bill 97 which is currently in session. İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Filiz Kerestecioğlu, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the proposal that the Commission and the government did not agree with. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0169par0435	Thank you. Mr. President, the only kind of people, without criticism, or really, when people's words are at their throats and people can't express themselves, can't be research, can't be improved, can't be produced, can't be anything, can't be creative, I'm afraid. Therefore, there is no need to go to Şırnak, far away. But just two days ago, I'd like to tell you why there is no invention, why there is no invention in this country, why there is no invention, why there is no invention in this country, why there is no invention, why there is really that stuck education, and just as I've already expressed, to serve capital, to improve the interests of capital, to improve things, I'd like to tell you that some of the things that have come up with ideas can be called research and development. Yes, a woman's naked body was exposed in the street. He did it, he did it, he didn't do it; it doesn't matter, but we were all shaken by it, especially the women. And in İstanbul, in Kadıköy, women went out to the streets, only 60-70 women, and they said: "No to war, peace is now." They also said hello to the people in Cizre. It immediately came out with a megaphone: don't utter slogans that praise terrorism. I as a deputy, and as a lawyer, I know what praises or praises are not justified, and I know what it is like to express what protest is, whether freedom is, or not. After all, we're all members of parliament here under the same roof, and we're not just living for freedom of expression, which is probably from this stand, we're in this country, we're here to guarantee other people's freedom of expression, and we're here to guarantee the right to protest. And more and more, we were surrounded by shields, we were trapped, they came at us more and more, and I was out there looking for an assistant chief of property. He told me: "We defend the law of the state. What is the law of the state, my friends? Is there such a thing as the law of the state? What you call law -- which is what's most lacking in the present day -- is to protect people's freedom, in business, in family law, in other matters, but to protect it especially from the state -- because the state is the strong, the citizen is weak, the citizen is the one that needs to be protected. And if there's even a single protest, a peaceful protest, a protest where 60 women gather, and they're not even allowed to get up there and read a press release, there's no invention, no inventor, no freedom, no nothing; there's only one type of person. Won't you be bored if we all stand up here and have the same conversations? Wouldn't you be bored if we didn't really express different thoughts? So, where does the police get this power? Don't give that power to the police. The police officers there, if there is a peaceful demonstration, are there to protect the people there, not to be against them, to suppress them, to stop them. The only place this can go is fascism, where fascism comes out, nothing else comes out, and people can't breathe, they can't express themselves. And then after that, not really an advanced society, but like the war that we're living in today, we're left alone with countries like Israel, where we've found an alliance that is actually the most misogynistic of all women. Bigger things come out of a free country, better people come out. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0170par0441	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0171par0443	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit02spe0170par0444	I'm going to call the number of votes before we vote, since there's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0170par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu and his friends was not enough to vote on Article 17 of Law Bill 97. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who do not accept... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There are three motions on Article 18: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to add and propose that the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, rank 97, shall be added "accepted on international level" following the declaration of "investigation to technology" in Article 18 of the Law bill. Kazim Arslan Muharrem Male İbrahim Özdish Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Murat Emir Nurhat Altaca Kayışoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to request amendments to Article 18 of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions under the Law and Law. The declaration of "foreigners" in the subsection (1) of Article 6 of the Law on the Work Permissions of Strangers, dated 27/2/2003, has been changed to "to avoid 20% of the number of researchers in the relevant Rage project, which is key to the contribution of foreigners to science and technology." Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Celal Adan Mustafa Mit Ruhi Ersoy Nuri Okutan Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 18 of the Law Bill 97 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Ahmet Yıldırım Mizgin Irgat Hişyar Özsoy Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Hishyar Ozsoy, who has asked for a statement on the motion that the Commission and the government did not agree with. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0172par0038	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. The 18th article says, first, let's read a brief reason for the article: ▪ The aim is to strengthen the ecosystem of our country's R&D and innovation, transport technology, increase the technology level of our businesses, increase the level of education, professional experience, contribution to science and technology, or to the country's economy and employment impact, to allow foreigners to work indefinitely. Now, on this occasion, I would like to point out the situation of some professors at Mardin Artuklu University, who have already been in our country and who have already worked but have been terminated. There's one thing in particular for an academic, which is really significant. Since last summer, we've also made a motion to ask about it. At Mardin Artuklu University, with the president's initiative, 14 of the teachers who live in Turkey and teach at Mardin Artuklu University were removed from their duties. They're not working right now. Some of these went to court. Although the executive court has decided that this decision should be halted, the NGO certainly does not allow these people to return to their jobs. Look, there's something very interesting going on here. We will, of course, develop research with universities, with scientific institutions, but when Mardin came to Artukluya from the best universities in the world, after working here for a while, he was terminated -- I'll give you a couple of names on this issue -- these people, these academics, were also carried out very, very serious studies to allow them to come to Turkey. Earlier, our HDP MP, who was especially Vice President of Mardin Artuklu, is currently HDP MP. A lot of people came. I want to name one of these because it's very interesting. Kemal Süleymani is originally an Iranian Kurdish, but he studied in Europe and America, studied comparative literature at the University of Colombia, one of the three best universities in the world, and published as much as the world, and his academic performance is extremely high. One day, they come to Mardin Artuklu University and hand him a piece of paper because you've been terminated. Kemal Süleymani is now back at Columbia University in New York. He says he doesn't want to come to Turkey even though he won the case. He thinks he doesn't deserve it because when he's relieved, he's not asked, the head of the department's opinion isn't taken, the performance criteria aren't looked at, it's certainly not looked at how many publications there are in the international journals, so we're probably thinking about it in some way -- they let him in because he has critical thinking, and let me be rude. I'm afraid this is what Mardin Artuklu University has done to people who have hardly studied at the best universities in the world and come to Turkey but are not citizens of Turkey. We say this for this reason: Now, to develop research, of course, grown people, educated people. The people who have been brought here with a lot of trouble are drawn to a set of decisions, executive decisions, political decisions. A total of 14 people have been laid off at Mardin Artuklu University, despite court rulings, the NGO does not recognise the decisions. The fact that there's already an institution like the SEC is an absurd situation in a university that has absolutely nothing to do with academic freedom. Our Deputy Flies has just expressed that you can't talk about research or development in an environment where ideas aren't freely expressed or circulated. Therefore, there is no point in spending these human resources with such political concerns. If we want to investigate, improve, we need new ideas, new people. Of course, we have no negative attitude towards foreigners coming to this country and working here, but strangers who come here... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We have a clear objection to his dismissal because of his opinion. Regarding the situation at Mardin Artuklu University, I invite the National Ministry of Education and the NGO to discuss this matter urgently and to bring it to a positive conclusion, with respect to all of you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0173par0051	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0174par0053	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0173par0054	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, and I'll look for a sufficient number of decisions in the motion vote. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to request amendments to Article 18 of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions under the Law and Law. The declaration of "foreigners" in the subsection (1) of Article 6 of the Law on the Work Permissions of Strangers, dated 27/2/2003, has been changed to "to avoid 20% of the number of researchers in the relevant Rage project, which is key to the contribution of foreigners to science and technology." Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, deputy of Kahramanmarash on a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Tor. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0175par0069	Mr. President, I would like to present to you the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on Article 18 of Law Bill 97. Today, the efficiency levels and production structures of the country's economies are crucial to achieving stable economic growth and improving prosperity. This frame shows that the world is gaining momentum for research development and innovation activities and that countries are trying to create more value with less resources. Turkey, which has a dynamic population structure, must surely make a breakthrough in the areas of R&D and innovation, to be among the top 10 economies on a global basis by 2023, to achieve the goal of national income and $500 billion exports per person. But when we look at it, as it stands, it's only a dream. Precious lawmakers are around $100 per cent of South Korea in 1950, around $130 of Japan, and Turkey's national income per minute is around $200. According to South Korea's acquisition parity today, the national income per unit is $35,485, and Japan's $46,000 or so. During the past period, South Korea has increased its national income of 350 and Japan has increased about 359 times its per cent. Turkey could only increase it 50 times. Dear lawmakers, we need to remove a hat with one word in the face of both countries' populations, facial measurements, geographical conditions, climate conditions and economic indicators when judged together. Dear lawmakers, the comparison between Japan and Korea-Turkey was fundamentally necessary for countries to switch places. For it is said that the two days are in the same loss. This is not just for the work of the house, but also for the worldly work. You'll be part of such a faith and you'll be dragged down to the ground, if you don't mind my saying so. If Turkey had the resources in Japan, South Korea, I think it would be $100,000 per million per cent. We're grateful to the one who puts stone on stone in this country, but it's not what it's supposed to be. It's never appropriate for this country to be begging for work on your door every day, on your phone. The allegations of zoning corruption, nepotism, money resettling, and line-building behind Reza Sarraf are not fitting in this beautiful country. The Islamic faith commands that even the smallest allegations of corruption be investigated. I insist, it is a waste to take the President's car to South America, and it is not Islamic. We recommend the role model of the Finnish President. Precious lawmakers were spending 1.2 trillion dollars in RDs worldwide in 2009. According to estimates, in 2012, that figure will rise to $1.4 trillion. China spent 154 billion dollars on RD in 2009. Japan spends $138 billion, South Korea spends $40 billion. Turkey's spending is only 11.1 billion. High-tech products are more competitive and have high added value. The number of high-tech exports in Asia-8 countries is $576 billion, $476 billion in China. China, Japan, South Korea and other countries have achieved this success. The answer is to work, to be honest, not to steal, not to be wasteful, to be responsible, to be ideal and exciting, to be fair, to give to your people, not to waste. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, RD is essential. See, in China, there are over 1 million people working in RD activities, more than 250,000 in South Korea, and in our country, there are around 65,000. From a patent point of view, the number of patents received in China in 2011 has not reached a thousand in Turkey. As a result, I'd like to say that not in Turkey, but in catching the age, unfortunately, I'd like to say that in order not to be too far behind the age... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...its support has become inevitable. That's why we support the bill and wish it well. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0176par0085	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to add and propose that the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, rank 97, shall be added "accepted on international level" following the declaration of "investigation to technology" in Article 18 of the Law bill. Muharrem Man (Chanakkale) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Muharrem Men, Çanakkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Man. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0177par0099	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 18 of Bill 97. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Before I begin my words, as a lawyer, I would like to share with you my opinion on a decision that I regret greatly. Yes, today is Istanbul 44. In fact, the Criminal Court has sentenced our member of the Party Assembly, Attorney Sera Kadıgil, to a year and nine months in prison, and has not postponed the sentence. Attorney Sera Kadıgil was punished today for defending the Republican People's Party in another case. This is a very upsetting decision in the name of the law, and unfortunately, it shows that in our country, the law of the fittest is not the strength of the law, but the law of the fittest. We, the Republican People's Party Group, participate in the overall draft bill, but emphasise that the bill does not contain structural reform. Let's not forget that if we can't achieve structural reform on RD, we can't put our country ahead in technologically global competition in the future. The bill does not foresee such an approach, I'm afraid. In our election declarations June 7th and November 1st, we took special interest in the issue of RD. With a human-focused development model and an understanding of growth that covers everyone, we have advocated extensive support and encouragement for the R&amp;D; and we continue to defend. It is clear, however, that support cannot be achieved with only 1 per cent of the national income. Given that in developed countries, this figure is 3%, the situation is not very pleasant. In South Korea, the new star of the economy, it is 4.15 per cent. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the world's innovation-based economies, we see three common features. First of all, there is no economic or political barrier to accessing information in these economies, which is democracy. Second, fair competition in innovation-based economies is legally guaranteed, the rule of law. Third, the new economy is developing in an ecosystem based on solidarity, the spirit of giving and solidarity to what it needs. It's called the knowledge society, the economics of the new era, which is called the knowledge economy, which is actually the legacy of three important values: freedom, justice and solidarity. So, where are we on Earth in these three elements? We are the 154th place in 180 countries in freedom of access to knowledge. According to the 2015 Law Superiority Index, Turkey is ranked 80th among 99 countries. These figures, unfortunately, correspond to the figures of less developed countries. The data on solidarity is no different. Our young people with advanced creativity and problem solving skills are only 2.2%; the OECD average is 11.4%. Without the rule of law, without removing the barriers to knowledge, creating a real democracy, unfortunately, development is not possible. Without freedom, justice, and solidarity in the new economic order, there will be no bread on our table. Dear lawmakers, AKP governments have really reached the age of justice and freedom in Turkey, but to the back. We went back from modern age to feudal age, from the legal state to the police state, and we're moving on. We're not being democratic, we're being authoritarian. If this continues, even the first 20 dreams appear, let alone the top 10 economies of the world in 2023. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have brought to our attention a emphasis on the general reason for the bill, signed by Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, the emphasis on qualitative development, qualitative depth. The qualitative depth of RD studies, I hope, is not the strategic depth of foreign policy. You know, you started out as a strategic depth in foreign policy, and what happened to us today. Mr. President, when I put an end to my statement, I ask that our motion on Article 18 be accepted, with my love and respect to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0178par0110	Thank you, Mr. Man. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There are two motions on the 19th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the newness of Law Bill 97, which is in Article 19 of the Common Order, be replaced in the form of ▪innovation. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mizgin Irgat Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and altering the (j) bedding of Article 8 (i.e. Article 8) of Law No. 4817 (i.e. Article 8) in Article 19 of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions. İbrahim Özdish Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Kazım Arslan Murat Emir Nurhat Altaca Kayışoğlu Melike Basmacı /j) To foreigners decided under conditions set by TÜBITAK to contribute to our country's development in science, technology, RD, innovation and design, Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Melike Basmacı, Denizli MP on proposal Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0179par0136	Mr. President, my dear Regents, I salute you all. The advice from the outside is of no use to those who have little light in them. He said, "Lord, let's just say, and let's hope it's understood." People of the AKP, in my country for six months...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0180par0139	Well, well, well!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0179par0140	...that we have given 282 martyrs, that my country, singing songs, pulling hoops, playing masters, has returned to the house of mourning...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0180par0141	Well, well, well!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0179par0142	Do you know that mothers don't stop crying, children don't have a father? People of the AKP...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0181par0145	People of the CHP!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0179par0146	...that the worker in my country, the officer, the pensioner, was cut off because his electricity didn't pay, his water didn't run out...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0182par0148	Congressmans, please listen to the preacher in silence.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0179par0149	Do you know that he can't eat meat, that he can't even add onions, garlic, because he's got a 58 percent increase in bread for $1, that he can't add meat, that he goes to the market in the dark in the morning because the market is expensive and collects what's left of you Aghas? People of the AKP, do you know the people who can't pay their car insurance, the people who are on the uninsured vehicle, the ones who get fired because they can't get the SRC document, the ones who can't afford the K1, the ones who can't carry a load, or the ones who are on the head seat?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0183par0151	They're hiring for theater scenes!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0179par0152	People of the AKP, do you know of those businessmen in my country who want to postpone bankruptcy every day because we lost the market to Diyarbakir, Syria, Russia, because of the wrong foreign policy? People of the AKP...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0184par0154	People of the CHP!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0179par0155	Do you know that in my country there are 17 million poor, 6 million unemployed teachers, 350,000 unassigned teachers, agricultural engineers, nurses, 26 million on antidepressants? People of the AKP...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0185par0157	People of the CHP!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0179par0158	Do you know that the number of drug users has increased by 678 percent in 13 years, that prostitution has increased by 790 per cent, that prison inmates have increased by 437 per cent, and that most of them are due to debt, that women's violence has increased by 1,400 per cent?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0186par0159	Do you know that on November 1st, the AK PARTY received 50%? Say it!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0187par0160	Congressmans, please, let's hear it, orator sir.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0179par0161	People of the AKP, do you know that the ministers among you are trying to solve terror by screaming the song in Mardin, playing snowballs on the cable car to make them forget about the 25,000 housing projects, having fun with teachers who killed their lives? [[Applause from CHP rows]] People of the AKP, how will you know these things?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0188par0164	Do you know the outcome of November 1st?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0179par0165	For thirteen years, you've used every government agency in my country as your father's property. Do you remember the People of the CHP, the SGK? You took the children of the university with political interviews, not with merit.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0189par0168	People of the CHP, do you remember SKI Gate, SKI Gate? If you're underage, I'll tell you!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0179par0169	But if only Sultan Süleyman the Law had told me that you would covet the throne of the sultans of the Ottoman sultans, instead of his glory, leave my hand outside while burying me, so that they could see my hand, and even Sultan Süleyman the Great could not take away anything from this world. Yours truly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0190par0173	Do you know how many votes the AK PARTY received on November 1st?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0191par0174	Thank you, Mr. Bassman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the newness of Law Bill 97, which is in Article 19 of the Common Order, be replaced in the form of ▪innovation. Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı (Bitlis) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. About the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with, Mr. Caladet Gaydalı, Bitlis MP. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0192par0188	Mr. President, on behalf of my party and group, I have made a pledge on the 19th Amendment of Law Proposal 97. Before I begin, I salute the General Assembly. The material aims to support qualified foreigners who will contribute to the development of science, technology, RD, innovation and design. We're not opposed to support for RD activities and incentives to work in this field, but we believe that the priority here is to be given to self-sources. Given the dialectics of science, we have to admit that scientific progress has risen above universal wisdom and vision, not according to religion, race, color or sectary criteria. It is fundamentally important, and should also be supported, if its life is ahead of its efforts, wherever it comes from, and however it comes from, to serve for the benefit of society, to strengthen scientific progress. The main issue here is that we need long-term plans to reduce scientific, technological progress and outside dependency in development, which can only be done with a healthy and qualified education policy. Every stage of training is important because they prepare for each other consecutively. Of course, higher education is the finality of this work. In our country today, when we look at universities, we can't say that our situation is good. Making progress in RD studies and being a leading country are proportional to knowledge and scientific development. This role of universities, which are dynamics of knowledge and scientific progress, is seen only in times and environments where free thinking, scientific and academic freedoms are guaranteed. Today, however, our universities in Turkey are under pressure from the government and police, particularly the NGO. Academics' calls for political and social problems have been assessed as treason, detention decisions have been made, and investigations have been launched. At university doors, police check IDs, special security points are set up on campuses. In such a process, where war policies, security mentality, political staffing, ideological polarisation is deepened by government policies, academic freedoms are suspended, it will not be possible to talk about a scientific development in Turkey, as well as in R&D studies, no progress will be made. The building of peace, increasing freedoms, providing social justice and equality, strengthening democracy is also a priority for RD studies. It's daydreaming to expect improvement in an environment where none of this can be achieved. How can science move forward in an atmosphere of war, death, where curfews, blockades have become routine? Science, knowledge, and all of its developments only develop in peace, peace, and free environments. Our first and most important duty is to sow the seeds of international love and brotherhood. That's what society expects of us. As the people of Turkey say peace, democracy, there is an understanding that gives priority to war and military spending. Today, it is not enough that it has broken the peace process and started the war at home, but it is now planning to enter Syria, trying to put the country into war; the Kurdish, Arab, Turkmen forces fighting for its freedom in Syria are holding on to cannon fire. We face an approach that is happy that ISIS and Al-Qaeda have dominated the border, which is uncomfortable with the slightest gain of what he calls my brother of a thousand years. This is the dead end of the government's path to Turkey. Finally, Hamaset may be in harmony with politics, perhaps with social life, but it's never compatible with technology. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0193par0197	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0194par0199	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0193par0200	There is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who do not accept... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There's a motion on Article 20, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the introduction of the 20th article of the Common Law Bill 97 shall be changed in the form of..innovation. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mizgin Irgat Erol Dora Ahmet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Erol Dora has asked about the motion, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0195par0217	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 20 of the Bill of Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, number 97. I salute the General Assembly. The main axis of the draft bill is to ensure and support the production of high-increased products, to increase human resource capacity, to commercialise information, to promote the emergence and development of technology and innovative companies, to improve and institutionalise university-industrial cooperation. Dear lawmakers, of course, scientific knowledge produced in universities is of great importance in building a qualified social life, in the development of modern, technical tools, to implement a civilized life. It is also a matter of our utmost concern for the development of economic policies that encourage research development to be cared for, and for the carefully developed work by academics and academics to be used in areas in which social life is needed. It's important to add that in the context of universities, creative technical design is, of course, a free working environment, most importantly, of the basic preconditions for the emergence of high economic design. In addition, it is important to remember that social life is not just technical tools and tools that are used in everyday life, but universities are not just technical and engineering. Universitys are institutionalised by technical sciences, engineering, law, medicine, natural sciences, the search for real knowledge of every aspect of life. Dear lawmakers, we all know that sociology, law, history, anthropology, archeology, psychology, education sciences, and academics who work on these disciplines, and data provide vital clues as to how a qualified social life can be possible. Of course, the most basic requirement for the emergence of scientific activity is to be able to declare a free working environment and scientific data, or freedom of expression. Dear lawmakers, in this context, it is inevitable to focus on the freedom of university, academics and expression. Freedom of expression is one of the basic values of democracy, which means that the original demand for it is the state, and first, it must be protected from the arbitrary interference of public authorities. This requires that people's opinions, emotions, and opinions be expressed be not blocked freely and that public authorities do not face any oppressive treatment because of their public opinion; it also requires that the state protect the subject of freedom against pressure from other individuals and groups. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, freedom of speech makes it possible for public opinion and public debate to exist in society. In a society where ideas cannot be freely expressed, it is not possible to establish a discussion and negotiation environment that will allow us to have a healthy understanding of public, social issues and to determine what is good for the public. The public authority and the public criticism of power are the cornerstone of democracy. Dear lawmakers, in the European Union Progress Report 2015, we are faced with an extremely bad picture on behalf of Turkey, where freedom of expression and privacy are of alarming proportions, where 80,000 websites are blocked in 2015, Turkey is the most applied country in the world to delete content or suspend accounts. Dear lawmakers, today we face an exemplary situation where our rights of access to information are suspended as well as a single-voiced choir, except for a few resisting press organs, and there is no choice but to act in the direction of power, and that even the demand for peace is equated with treason. I hope that from now on, in the context of the development of freedom of expression, all political parties will take the necessary care, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0196par0228	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0197par0230	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0196par0231	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, so I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All in favor... Those who don't... Since there's a disagreement between the clerks, I'll vote with the electronic device for the number of decisions sufficient. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion on Article 21; I read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the mandate of the Law Bill 97 in question be replaced in the form of the field of duty. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, Iğdır MP who has asked about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0198par0253	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, of course, today, when the government had a twenty-minute speech on Syrian policy, Mr. Defence Minister would have wanted to be able to inform the Assembly of Syria and Central Eastern policy within ten minutes of the remaining ten minutes, but unfortunately, the Secretary of State did not make any information about it, just to the defence level, to the military extent of the business, in a sense. Now, dear friends, because of Syria, Turkey is not short-term for the Middle East, perhaps over the next 30 years, 50 years, there is no information given to parliament by the government or the relevant ministry. In the past, it was the same way; until three or four years ago, almost the strategic alliance with Syria was our closest ally in the Middle East, while the government declared today to be dictators of the Fivear Assad Prime Minister, three years later, three years later, and a reverse policy now formed a policy in the form of the enemy government of Syria. Really, what is Turkey's policy for the Middle East? Who are the allies in the Middle East? Who are the enemy dynamics? On the 100th anniversary of the Skyes-Picot Agreement in the Middle East, the ruling party is particularly pleased to say that Skyes-Picot had completed his term and was resolved. Well, it's true, the Skyes-Picot Agreement, like a hundred years ago, glued different beliefs with Japanese glue, different sects, different identities, together with a forced imposition, and, you know, Sunni created an artificial Syrian state, but what was the basic paradigm of this state? Baas ideology based on Arab nationalism. A hundred years later, this ideology would be faced with the reality that we face today as a result of forced, pressure, violent continuation, and it would be torn apart, as a result. What is this? It's turning into historical, natural dynamics, actually, Syria. There are Kurds in Syria, this is a reality, there are Sunni Arabs, and there are Shia Arabs; they would be torn apart because they could not be a government based on the judgment of a minority or the judgment of a single ethnicity. In turn, there are no dynamics that Turkey is currently based on in Syria; the current Baas rule remains the enemy, Kurds the enemy, ISIS, El Nusra remains, and so his policy in the Middle East has failed. What needs to be done is this: in the Middle East and Syria, when the stones are in place, when the artificial structures of a hundred years ago with Sykes-Picot will be solved, Turkey will have to decide not by short term, but by Kurdish hostility, not by the enemy of YPG, YPJ or PYD, but by how to form alliances in the Middle East for the next 50 years, maybe a hundred years, how to conduct a degree, who will be friends and allies, and who will be allied forces. What happens tomorrow? Perhaps, when gangs such as ISIS, Al Nusra, are purged, the government will have to travel with Bezar Assad. In such a case, it will be surrounded by Russia, or it will be with Iran, or it will do the right thing. I already say that it needs to develop a friendship policy based on equality, based on equality with Syrian Kurds, based on recognition of their status.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0199par0258	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0200par0260	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0199par0261	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, so I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who do not accept... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There are two motions on Article 22: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, rank 97, to the amendment of the Law and Decisions of Some Laws, and to the application of "legal" referred to in Article 22 of the Bill of Law. Kazım Arslan Hüseyin Pineak İbrahim Özdish Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Murat Emir Nurhat Altaca Kayışoğlu Now, I'm going to make the motion that I'm going to read the most in violation of the clause, and then I'm going to have it processed after I've had it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and recommend that the "work training, internship or scholarship service" in Article 22 of Law Bill 97, which is currently in session, be replaced as training, internship, internship, or scholarships. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mizgin Irgat Ahmet Yıldırım Ayşe Acar Başaran Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Ayşe Acar Başaran, Batman MP who has asked about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Acar Basian. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0201par0286	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly again. Today, I have taken the oath of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and on the 22nd Article of the Commission for Sciences and Technology, of course. Yes, although the title of the law includes research and development activities, unfortunately there will soon be no structure left -- at least culturally -- to be investigated in Turkey. The most important example of this is that today, within Batman's borders, Hasankeyf....has been submerged for just 50 years for a project. Today, the only area that the government calls progress is, unfortunately, roads that destroy all nature all the way to the top of the mountains, all the way across Turkey. As I said today, one of the most important things for me is Hasankeyf. Although Hasankeyf carries nine tenths of UNESCO's world heritage criteria, today he is being left underwater for a 50-year-old project, for a 50-year project, and Hasankeyf's people are forced to migrate from their homes and move the freak into another area that can only be accepted as a model. Today, the actual removal of Hasankeyf, the cradle of all civilizations for thousands of years, is part of cultural assimilation in some way. Again, in the final period, historical structures are deliberately, intentionally, deliberately bombed, especially in areas of curfew, where all historical structures are being destroyed. And again, as I said, historically, it's part of the assimilation by destroying the culture of a nation completely, in a way, destroying the past of that nation. By development, we just mean, like I said, building dams all over the place. But, if you look at it, on the other hand, there's no scientific research at any of the universities that are now the home of science. Because the scientists who make the slightest opposition sound are somehow exposed to investigations and are pushed out of these science nests. So we're now unfortunately dealing with universities where only the government keeps what it calls my scientist, only those who depend on its own ideology. And it's going to come out of these universities, and it's clear to us how young people we call our future are going to be one type, without the ability to reason, unfortunately just formed in a frame of thought, and how our future is being blacked out in this way. Again, keeping teachers under constant pressure, especially in primary schools and secondary schools, called science nests, is a constant impact on education. If we're just talking about developing in this way, it's not possible that we can't accept it only on the word, only on the writing, if it's just the will of power, it's its own interests that are being developed in some way. It's not the destiny of this country to grow and move forward in this way. There's no law on paper that we're going to make here that's going to develop development, technology, or science in the future. For him, especially, as I said, to destroy all of history, to destroy all of nature, to give up a development system, a mindset built only on the Rant, I really think we should put our hands together to produce real science in the science nests so that we can all meet together in the brighter futures of this country. I, again, salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0202par0298	Thank you, Mr. Acar Başaran. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0203par0300	There's enough land, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0202par0301	There is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who do not accept... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, which are currently in session 97, and to change the "legal" of the Law Act on the 22nd Amendment in Article of the Law and Law. Hussain Pineak (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Hussain Çamaak, Mersin MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Pineak. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0204par0315	Mr. President and valued lawmakers, I have received a pledge from the CHP Group regarding the motion we submitted on Article 22 of the Law Bill 97. I salute you all. The first joke (a) of Article 5510 of Law No. 7 (a) has been changed to the education of the school or training of the internship, the internship or the position of the scholarship. With this amendment, we welcome the benefit of insurance for scholarship workers involved in public-sponsored projects. However, we believe that the vague mission here is consciously preferred. Instead, we believe the word "work" should be preferred in terms of carrying out a mission that involves a clearer meaning. The interns and scholarship workers who will be involved in this research and development activities are working hard in their professional areas. In this era, particularly when information technology has a very important meaning, those involved in RD activities are also doing a job when they are training rather than a specific task. On the other hand, the training of interns and scholarship workers who are being tried to improve the situation with changes made to give insurance opportunities should not be just a formality. It should be made sure that they complete their vocational training in a healthy manner and that they are fully qualified, you should go, come at the end of the period, get your internship certificate. But unfortunately, in our country, sometimes things are done this way, and to prevent that, the control mechanisms do not perform their duties. Dear lawmakers, as you know, 33.5 percent of the minimum wage for interns and scholarship students is paid by the institutions where they receive scholarships, but unfortunately, we know that this is not paid from time to time, which needs to be thoroughly audited. In addition, our citizens abroad who work in the field of RD and design should be given certain conveniences and exceptions, providing employment and training in research labs for students who are studying in this area in our country. At the same time, the changes in the R&D Law should be reflected in areas such as tourism, where foreigners can contribute more to their work by providing legal assurances. Dear lawmakers, with this law guaranteed insurance guarantees for interns and scholarships working at R&D, the mandatory fees will continue to be received because they are unemployed from millions of citizens under the General Health Insurance Act 5510. What will happen to our citizens who passed the income test and were unable to pay or were forced to pay at the highest level? It's not like I can't get a phone call from the hospital door and deposit my insurance money, so I can't be cared for, I can't get health care. What about us, though, as we all know, health is a birthright. Article 56 of the Constitution (the Constitution) states that the state is charged with keeping everyone's lives in body and mental health. There is no such right to those who have no money or without insurance. Then why are these citizens being forced to pay for the GSS, and why are these citizens always being turned around at hospital doors? As Congress, we need to find a solution to our GSS victims. No more calls, no more e-mails, no more messages, no more tweets. Let's figure this out. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0205par0323	Thank you, Mr. Pineak. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There is a motion on the 23rd article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In projects supported by public institutions and organisations in Article 23 of Law Bill 97, we propose and propose to replace them as scholarships in projects supported and funded by public institutions and organisations. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. İdris Baluken, Diyarbakır MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0206par0342	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, we give the impression that we're discussing an important bill for research development, but we want to express from the very beginning that the current environment in Turkey is not carrying any democratic content to improve the work of R-GE, nor to provide freedom in academia. In Academy, this is the extent of the legal arrangement that a government would bring to the university to develop research, to completely limit freedom, to put democracy on the shelf, to end the understanding of the current legal state. If this bill had been a research development on war, you would have done some really successful work on it, and there could have been some major debate here, because you're one of the most successful governments in the history of how to overthrow dialogue tables, how to start war, how to launch massacres against civilians, how to get into trouble outside, and how to drag the country into war after the war inside. I need to make that clear. In fact, you are so successful that, in fact, the current Prime Minister of that period, the President now gives self-criticism as to why we didn't engage in the wars in the Middle East in the past, why didn't we engage in the war in Iraq on March 1st? Turkey is making statements to the public in the face of the public. In fact, we are terrified that the whole world is questioning the atrocities in Iraq, the Muslim blood in Iraq, the imperial plans there brought to this geography what catastrophes came from which we made a huge mistake not to go out and approve of the President's March 1st paper, he says. Look at the rulers of the war of that time, no one has the courage to take care of that war. Tony Blair has repeatedly apologized to the British public that we were deceived, that we were given false information about Iraq. I guess I don't have to mean much about Bush, but the U.S., at the first opportunity to withdraw its troops from that war in Iraq, has begun to seek out the forces that are subcontracting to it as well as your government at work in the region. Now, with a painting like this in the middle, we're still arguing why we didn't approve of March 1st, and why we didn't share the Muslim blood that flows in Iraq. Fortunately, I mean, there's not a lot of different ideas coming in and out of these times, but there's a lot of different ideas coming out of the AKP. I did the right thing by using this vote, and I did not participate in the crimes of that period, the imperial crimes of that period. I wish such objections to these war policies were raised today. Ten years from now, there's not much point in raising objections. After ten years, there are truths that have not reached the sun beneath this vast tree. The explanation does not take the process back, nor does it bring us back to life. Therefore, I especially recommend that my fellow lawmakers here in the AKP ranks look at the position of the AKP's co-founders, where they are now, and what attitude they are in.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0207par0348	Don't give me any advice. Look at you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0206par0349	Whatever comes your way, whatever sounds on your conscience, come out here and say it. With instructions from somewhere, if you just drop your fingers and lift your fingers and act as a proxy, we'll have to show all our people that you've fallen into by asking for the right number of decisions. I hope that democracy will develop within you, and I hope that the truths that have not met that sun will come to light as soon as possible, and the good will come out for you and the good for the country. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0208par0353	Keep your mind to yourself.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0209par0354	Mr. Secretary, do you have a request for the 60th Amendment, sir? - Yeah. Mr. President, the speaker has accused our government of subcontractorship. Not just AK PARTY governments, but no Turkish Republic government is subservient to anyone. For the record, I express myself specifically. Thank you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 24: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In projects supported by the public institutions and organisations in Article 24 of Law Bill 97, we propose and propose to replace them in the form of scholarship workers in projects supported and funded by public institutions and organisations. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Ahmet Yıldırım Mizgin Irgat Erol Dora Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 24 of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, in the following way. İbrahim Özdish Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Kazım Arslan Murat Emir Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu The first joke of Article 87 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No. 31/5/2006 (e) has been added to projects sponsored by public institutions or public institutional institutions (e.g. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Anyone who wants to talk about the motion...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0210par0387	Motive...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0209par0388	I'm reading the reason: The project, sponsored by the public institutional institutions/ top institutions, aims to extend the scope of the substance related to the declaration, including more scholarships' work accidents and occupational health insurance. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In projects supported by the public institutions and organisations in Article 24 of Law Bill 97, we propose and propose to replace them in the form of scholarship workers in projects supported and funded by public institutions and organisations. İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0211par0400	Erol Dora will speak, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0209par0401	Erol Dora has asked about the motion, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0212par0405	I have made a pledge on the 24th Amendment of Bill 97. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the solution and peace process we've tried to experience after 30 years of low-density war has given our country a comfortable breath, and none of us can deny that. One of the most important achievements of this process was hope that by expressing our problems to each other, we could solve them through dialogue, through negotiation. In this regard, I believe we should all care about the efforts of intellectuals, academics, artists, athletes, who have started and continue in the past weeks. However, threatening academics to be punished terrifies all those who want peace. Dozens of academics are being detained for expressing their opinion on our gangrenous social issue, their homes are being raided, they're being expelled from universities, athletes are being fined, and I believe we should all stand against it together. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are an example of academics speaking about the peace of the country, the wars and the deaths, taking part in this, and we should encourage them. A political scientist, of course, will work on political methods for the establishment of social peace and will be able to share his opinion on it with the community. A sociologist will, of course, express his opinion on any social, social problems. This is his duty, above all, at the same time. An academic does not need to be a social scientist to express his views on a social issue. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are being censored and punished for critical thinking on the grounds of national security and security policies. It is an attempt to intimidate free thinking that the criticism of the critical debate environment should be marked as a betrayal, that the criticism of the government should be manipulated in the form of an attempt to break the integrity of the state, and we will never be able to accept it. Dear lawmakers, you see, even in the most fascist regimes, there have been arbitrary blockades that have not been legal basis for Kurdish cities for months under the ban on going on the street. Turkey's society does not know what is happening in Cizre district, with more than 100,000 inhabitants, Parliament does not know. It's a complete blackout of information. Civilians, wounded, have been brutally sent to die in bunkers, which we call and attempt to build, which we call the basement of violence. Autopsy processes of funerals are conducted in a rush and in secret. Autopsies aren't allowed lawyers. Dear lawmakers, in the face of violence, all our initiatives as parties have been blocked by the government and its respective units. We are not allowed to enter cities as the chosen ones of the region. The most fundamental right of our people's lives has been brought underfoot by the most violent means. We are expected to consent to the death of our people, and society is intended to be desensitized. It is not even tolerated to mention rights violations against our citizens. Mr. President, where we come from, the legal security of identity rights on the basis of the Kurdish people and other peoples and their beliefs is unscheduled. We believe that both the government and other political parties need to stop looking at what is happening in the country through the criminal window and focus on structural changes in the common country to ensure that equal and free citizenship can be established immediately. The precondition for democratic social life is equal and free citizenship. As long as we can't establish an equal and free citizenship, it also says that we can't achieve real peace, and with those feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0213par0414	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0214par0416	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0213par0417	There is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who accept the motion... those who don't... Since there is a disagreement among the clerk members, I will vote on the number of decisions that are sufficient by electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There is a motion on the 25th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement taken in Article 25 of the Law Bill 97, which is in question, shall be changed into the same form. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, Iğdır MP who has asked about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0215par0441	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. We've made a motion to change the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions 97 and to change the title of Article 25 of the Perpetual Law. Dear friends, the 25th article is about the change of the title of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions. Of course, the Law on Supporting Research, Development, and Design Actions is in the form of the bill. Our proposal is the Law on Supporting Research and Development and Design Actions. I learned Turkish later. Since I'm Kurd, of course, I learned Turkish in elementary school, even after finishing elementary school, but I think our proposal is more suitable for Turkish grammar. No research, no development, design with research and development. Thus, both research and development are technically two separate functions, two functions, as a word. So I think it would be more technical for him to break up with, and I think it would be appropriate for the Turkish grammar. Now, of course, friends, research and development are a fundamentally important area, but there are certain stages in which both research and development can happen. Now, the first stage, without a doubt, is the process of accumulation of information, so in order for an activity, a function, a service, or a product to emerge, you have to first create a collection of information, or a dream to become a design. The area of this collection of information is undoubtedly the educational institutions and the universities at the head of it. So, because these first stage universities are involved, in Turkey, unfortunately, the quality of the existing universities' physical conditions and infrastructure problems and the quality of the professors, such research and development, in other words, is not suitable for the creation of new information, a new design, but first, we need to improve this area. The second major stage, without a doubt, has to be a basis for the accumulation of knowledge or imagination to become a design, a project. I mean, a lab, a research facility, a research facility, where people who have knowledge in that research space, have to be able to try out their designs, their dreams, or their knowledge, and see the consequences, which, unfortunately, in Turkey, there are not enough researchable ground, labs, or other research sites available at this level, both scientifically and even in all fields of science. What's phase three? What's been tried is the practice of this information -- that's imagined, designed, or new invention -- that's being tried in the lab, that's being implemented, that's getting a result, that's getting a printout. This could be a product, a new product, a product that exists, to be further advanced, or a meta, or, for example, a design that is the product of an architect's dream. So, in order for this to go into practice, again, that information, like the factory -- for example, if it's a medical space -- if it's a hospital or, for example, a meta for the market, it needs to be tested in the market. Unfortunately, there are no grounds and conditions in Turkey. So we think that even though it will contribute to research and research, especially to scientists, doctors or professors, professors' careers, people with knowledge, if it brings a theoretical benefit, we can't actually achieve a very successful product, and we think that the desired outcome can't be achieved. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0216par0449	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0217par0451	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0216par0452	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who do not accept... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... are considered subjective. There's a motion on Article 26 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statements in the 26th article of the Common Law Bill 97 should be changed into the same form as........................................................................................................ İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Asked about the motion, İdris Bauken, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0218par0470	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. During the first time this republic was founded, it has done very severe atrocities to five social communities, and from that time until today, unfortunately, heavy massacres in our history have also been brought into play, in which we have all been in this land, in order to shed blood on the geography. Especially the Kurds, Alevis, with the monotheistic understanding of what some call the political Islamic tradition, socialist communities and non-Muslim peoples in the constitution of the Republic 1924, were subjected to severe atrocities, with the logic of melting everyone in the isolation basket. You have actually come from a tradition that has experienced these severe atrocities, and in 2002, you, the people, the people, the people, the development of democracy in Turkey, the international universal law norms and the criteria of the European Union, have come to power. But unfortunately, even though you've come from a crushed vein, a political tradition that has suffered severe injustices throughout the republic, especially after 2010, you've had the same self-confidence of being able to achieve power sickness, you've become a state, you've become a state, you've become a stateless state, you can't put dust on the state. The moment we say that the government made this mistake from this platform, we're seeing the most of the reactions now. However, each member of parliament at this time knows much better than we do what is wrong with the history of this state. Now, in a situation like this, you consider the limitation of all freedoms to be an inextricable line, the continuation of this power, the continuation of this understanding of stateization. That's why you're trying to shut up the university. If he swears to the university, if he doesn't swear to it, if he thinks against it, we have to put a stick in his head and shut him up. If the academic supports your war policies, let him speak, but I don't want to be a partner in the war, I want peace in this land. If he says so, then you take him into custody and put him out of business. Freedom of the press, freedom of thought, freedom of speech, freedom of organization, in all areas, I'm afraid you've betrayed the tradition you've come to, so to speak. Those who come from a oppressed tradition don't have the luxury of being able to get the disease of power, they don't have the sense of consecrating the state. The more democratic the state becomes, the more plural identity it has in its plural voices, the more we can solve our own problems, the sooner you're thrown away from your understanding. Hitler has a famous saying, especially when he compares his sense of authoritarianism and dictatorship to riding a bicycle. Once you're on the road, you shouldn't stop, because the moment you stop, you'll be overturned. I wish, after 2010, you didn't have this particular disease. I wish, in the interest of developing plural democracy in this country, you were the one who defended the rights of all the oppressed. Mr. Bostanist is preparing for the answer: I'll tell you an anecdote: Hemingway has a famous shark recipe, he says: "When you see the shark under the sea until you don't notice its teeth, you get caught in its magic, its colors, its glory. That's the kind of thing that the state is about -- relationships, loans, economics -- is about as important as the glory on that shark's body, and it connects people to itself. But when the shark's teeth are seen, then there's no glory, but then it's too late. Now, what you're going through is a little bit like this Hemingway definition of a shark. Don't make anything sacred here like that. And I'm saying it's not proper for any MP to claim to be a political Islamic tradition and to desecrate the practices of the state and the government. Today, Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivmiş has explanations for many of the problems we have expressed on this stand, which means that there is a good chance that it will be done. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He said, "We'll go over it." So instead of blindly defending wrongs here, I'm telling you to take a look at your conscience and your past. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0219par0480	Also, make yourself available, support the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0220par0481	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Free Special, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0221par0483	Mr. President, during his speech, Mr. Baluken was talking about 1924, the founding will, and the party's founders were being severely bullied. We'd like to exercise our right to answer that question.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0222par0484	No, I didn't insult your founders!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0220par0485	Here, according to Article 69, I give you my word, Mr. Special. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0223par0489	I'm not going to fuel the debates here, but when the day came about the republic that was founded in 1924, and the enlightenment revolution that began later, we built this country together. In Çanakkale, our ancestors and grandfathers lie together. Later, the language used in those times should be a little more attentive, a little less hurtful because of a contradiction with the ruling party. For the Republican People's Party, there have been occasional abuses that have gone too far. We have always expressed that the Republican People's Party was a common struggle for all the layers of the Republic of Turkey and a product, faith, and a way of living, which were accepted by mistake, by mistake, by the first term of the Republic of Turkey. They told me to deal with my class. We did; nine times, the ruling party rejected our motion to investigate Dersim. The day we offered the commission to investigate the facts, and the Justice and Development Party was the one who got away with it. In 1980, Mr. Baluken, our party was shut down, our presidents were arrested, our assets were seized. To understand the victims of the Justice and Development Party at that time, it must have been very impressed by Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, because he had convinced himself, his party and his party's organization, but we respect the political tradition that AKP has come to, but we also want to stress that AKP is the least victimized and the most victimized political party in this country during its rule. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0224par0495	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0225par0496	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0226par0497	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0224par0498	Just a moment, Mr. Baluken. Mr. Bostanci has a voice request. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci. I'll turn on your microphone, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0227par0502	Mr. President, thank you. I don't find it surprising that Özgür Bey took a speech with a speech full of criticism to the AK PARTI. Let me make this clear first. Mr. Bauken mentioned that persecutions and massacres were committed in the Republic of Turkey with the nation's state at the entrance of its talk. Cruelty may be a criticism, but massacres are an unjust accusation that history rejects. The state of the Republic of Turkey was founded in the 19th century as a form of a nation state, which basically dominates the entire world; it was established as a reality of a world. National states have some faults, some criticisms, in the 19th century when they were founded and in the 20th century, including the Republic of Turkey. As progress has already been made in this area, democracy, freedoms and so on, nations have begun to return from their mistakes, to a place where the state and the people are integrated, which is where the Republic of Turkey is walking. You have to be right to look at history. Let me point out right here that the political tradition, owned by Mr. Baluken, takes place at the time when the Republic of Turkey was founded as a nation. I remind you of the references of Ocalan. I mean, there's a lot of evidence in their tradition that they're acting in search of a national state, even further behind the nation's state form that they're critical of today. The place where the Republic of Turkey lives today is a nation's state form that embraces its people when its destination is compared to the past. On the other hand, you were oppressed yesterday, and today you were cruel. You have become one with the government. I firmly reject your criticism. The state, today's state, unlike yesterday's state, is based on a more democratic, more liberal political and ruling relationship. It's not our government, it's everyone's government. Today Mr. Baluken sits here and speaks as part of the state. It's not like the government's an institution out there. We're all part of the same government. They're part of this government. We're just power. Also, criticism of the state can be made, of course. That's what they do. What is unfair is that the state is slaughtering the public. When you say that it is an ideological propaganda statement, which in no way meets the verbs of the state and cannot be put in the context of political criticism. On the other hand, academic freedoms have been mentioned, and several other speakers have mentioned the same issues. Intellectual... there are many definitions of this. A little poetic, but true, Dariush Shayegan is a description of Shayegan. Walter Benjamin -- one of the most important names of Frankfurt School -- sees being distant from the state as a condition of being intellectual. If we look at him, of course, that friend shouldn't be in the government, given one of those definitions.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0228par0511	It's not the government, Mr. President, it's the power. Don't misinterpret the distance against power.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0227par0512	In any case, I think the intellectual person -- he may be distant from the state, he may be critical, but -- should not be sitting there, expressing the world view of another micro-level power.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0229par0513	Please complete your statement, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0227par0514	Excuse me... What's a sample, of course you have to look at it. But in these discussions, there's always a critical reference to the government, and the fact that the people involved are the spokesman for another, smaller micro-government environment. I wanted to draw attention to that. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0230par0517	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0231par0518	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0230par0519	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0231par0520	I'm going to ask for word from two teases. Speaking on behalf of the Republican People's Party, the members of the group said we insulted the republic's founding values and founding will, and made a clear taunt.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0232par0522	He didn't mess around, he told the truth, he told the truth.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0231par0523	Again, during his speech, Mr. Bostanci made some analysis of the assessments I didn't make and teased.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0233par0524	And I didn't say you did, Mr. Baluken. I said it was a political tradition.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0234par0525	Well, I give you my word on the 69th article, due to both taunts. Here you go, Mr. Bauken. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is four minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0235par0531	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all again. I've talked about a mentality here, a mindset based on the denial, assimilation and destruction of 24 Constitutions, which has caused a lot of problems in this country so far. I haven't had the slightest accusation or insult to the founding values here or to the founders of the republic, as the group's vice president has pointed out. Oh, I'm very critical, but as a member of parliament who respects the sensitivities of all 78 million people in this country, I would consider insulting them to my own political understanding, political morality. So I want to make this especially right. On the other hand, of course, I mean, if there have been massacres in the history of this country, many of the next MPs know. We, in particular, express our view of these events, from Sheikh Sait Kıyam to Ağrı Zilan, to Derim massacre; from there to Çorum, to Maraş, to Sivas. You may not consider the deaths of thousands, tens of thousands of people as a massacre, but you do not have the right or the right to dictate or impose them on us through your own truth.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0236par0535	Neither are you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0235par0536	As a matter of fact, I'm surprised that Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been massacred on this parliamentary platform. When you say, "There is no sound from any of you," you enter into an abnormal defence reflex. Of course, we're not historians, and we're not discussing history here. But we believe that the true democracy of this country has passed through a fundamental confrontation with its past, revealing facts, and constructively developing a plural democracy. And while we're on the stand here, let's go out and create a disturbance in the entire 78 million, touch a nerve ending, not everybody hates us. On the contrary, we say that some truths should be freely discussed on this council bench, that some things about the past should now be subject to a healthy process of debate in the history of this country. We'll keep saying that. I mean, you can deny it, but we believe that the spirit of the 1924 Constitution is still alive with the following coup constitutions, and it does not suit this country, the people of this country. We say that an understanding that changes this quickly and is based on plural democracy, which does not view people, identities, beliefs, religions as a danger, that tries to restore their rights to a social contract must quickly find life. That's exactly what we're saying when we say that the law you brought about the AR-GE is of no use. So, without making some progress on our basic problems, without making some progress on democracy, without getting the plural debate culture in this country from street to university, without getting the RD Act into the whole area of life, that's what we're trying to say. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit03spe0237par0539	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0237par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 97. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. There are two motions on Article 27. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose the addition of the statement of the statistical bulletin after the 27th Amendment in Article 27 of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, Number 1/540, which has been discussed. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Tüğim Çetin Mustafa Mit Yusuf Halaçoğlu Celal Adan Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of any statement from the text of the article, which is in the context of Article 27 of the Law Bill 97. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mizgin Irgat Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. This is Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı, Bitlis MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0238par0030	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party and group on the 27th Amendment. I'd like to suggest that RD is the essentials of technology. However, there are two diseases in our society that we suffer from. If we don't get the diagnosis, the diagnosis right, we can't get the treatment right, unfortunately, one of these diseases is selfishness, and the other is our megalomania. As long as we can't get rid of them, we can't become a technology society, we can't provide research and development environments. I'll tell you some of the things I've been through. Of course, I'm over a year old. The year 1976, when I was a young engineer, I went to work for Hakkari. The governor of the city -- now, of course, has been a mercy -- and God knows that I'm going there -- he invited me to dinner and chatted with me, and I'm telling you exactly what the governor said the first time in 1957, an engineer from Hakkari, who graduated from Istanbul, went to work with his own will, and it was nineteen years later, 1976, when he expressed that I was the engineer who went to work there on his second wish. Of course, when I looked around, indeed, all humans were sent from the right to the left as exiles. You know, when we're talking about this with the governor, the governor can be made attractive to people by declaring this city's pilot zone. The Governor's statement was just like this: "Gaydali, this place has been declared a pilot zone, but there's no pilot here, there's no pilot here. Now, with these things, it's true, maybe there's something that happens to make some people a pilot, but there's absolutely no research, there's absolutely no improvement. Let me tell you another memory of Hakkari. They showed me a building there, they showed me it was a great building, its architecture, its appearance, its everything. Once upon a time, a Hakkari mirine says, "I'm going to build a building like this with a room like this, and he's going to make the time description and all that. Of course, the Mirin doesn't like it very much. So, here, the square is in the middle. Of course, he's got controls on his head -- he's even finishing up saying he'll use a stone to use it. Of course, it would be appreciated if such an environment were in Western societies, wouldn't it? Do you know what the fate of this man is? The devil is in his soul. He was executed. Unfortunately, in this mindset, it's probably in our genes; we can't get rid of it. The same thing happens in Iznik tiles. We had a very advanced technology in China in Iznik. But one of the days, one of Osman's masters comes out, takes out one color called "Iznik blue" and uses a secret, and certainly no one will know it after me and be called by my name. There, unfortunately, there are selfish and megalomaniacal diseases in our society. We need to treat this first, we need to get rid of it so we can create an environment like this so the RD can develop. I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0239par0038	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. I submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0240par0040	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0239par0041	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, so I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor of the motion... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of the expression,statistic, to be added after the 27th article of the Law Bill of Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, Number 1/540, which is currently in session. Kamil Aydın (Erzurum) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Kamil Aydın, Erzurum MP will talk about the motion that the Commission and the government disagree. Here you go, Mr. Aydın. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0241par0055	Mr. President, most valuable MPs, I'm going to try your patience at this time of night, with all due respect, but so far, I'm telling you, this is a real need. Now, sir, look, we said over and over again that the state is the institutionalized, systematic state of the nation. Don't make this state too different, don't make this state too alienate. Actually, what we're trying to say is that it's a criticism of actions. Make the government look like a large mansion - a large house, a multi-room home. In this mansion, there are different rooms in this house; there are kitchens, there are bedrooms, sir, there are living rooms, there are break rooms, etcetera. And do not retain any hardship in any of these houses, and do not add to it a beautiful dwelling. Let us, as a whole, discuss this mansion, destroy it, destroy it. Now, it's very trendy these days, the politics of lynching the nation's state. Dear Hodja, with all due respect, in the world, in Europe, the nation's state structure did not begin with the French Revolution. Look, the foundations of the nation's state go all the way to the Renaissance. The process of nationalization began at that time in Europe, which was tired of the Middle Ages. For him, the British called it the Anglican Church, the Church of England, almost nationalized religion in Europe. For him, Erasmus defended the translations of the Gospel from Latin, Greek, and European languages. For him, the process of universityization is the Middle Ages, and so is France, and so is England, and so is Germany. Göttingen is, Oxford is, sir, the Sorbonne is. Here, too, the language of education is translated into that public language, which will now be the language of French, English and German education in these universities. These are the first footsteps of the nation's state. So the Englishman said: "I am no longer British, I will not act together by order of the Vatican Church in Rome. The same has happened in France, and so has it happened in Germany. Unfortunately, it's like they've given up the nation state. No, sir, I'm making a correction here: the nation's state process has been completed in Europe and in America, in Western societies, but what is it that, after they've completed their process of being a nation state, there's a concept called the melting pot. I'd like to tell the congressman from here who's using that concept. No such concept was used during the establishment of this Republic of Turkey. It's an American-made concept, a melting pot; it has added 72 nations, melted them, brought another nation out of them, and today, it's no longer debated the becas and institutional structure of that nation. What in God's name are we after? Why do we keep arguing about this? Here, actually, it's the actions that are the subject of discussion. So this mansion has a problem with its kitchen. What are we in the High Council? What are we? We can't, can we? So, in this state, we're part of the organized state of power. If we can't make the living right, it's our fault. The administration is the government; if the administration can't do well, if it can't do it right, it's his fault, it's the execution that needs to be questioned here, it's the judgment if he can't do it, it's the living if he can't do it. Sir, let's stay away from the state. There's no such intellectual definition. Look, what we're talking about here is Shayegan and Walter Benjamin and Said -- we can even count more -- Gramsci says: "Stay out of power." So don't be an organic information tech. The intellectual puts a distance from power, speaks the truth, defends the right, and that's what we said. Today, believe me, we're constantly seeking artificial rhetoric to camouflage our own ruling wrongs or to destroy Turkey's unity, republic, a young structure, a state. We're gonna give this up. Sir, if the passenger is wrong, there is no sin in the road. Let's not mess with the road here, please. Yeah, the ruling party in Turkey that almost said yes to genocide. Please don't do this. There are mistakes, but not in the form of genocide. There are mistakes, of course, there are individual mistakes, but it's unfair to put the government under suspicion here. This roof is a symbol of the state's existence. I'm asking you now: that we show the same sensitivity, the same sensitivity for my class in earthquakes that are more than just the numbers of my class. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... have we talked about what we've lost because of our mistakes? Ten years in a row every holiday car crash, and believe me, there are 50 Ders stories. Why don't we talk about this? Why are you only saying things to interpret and question the state's support? Now, please... that's an above-politic statement. With all due respect, let's not bring this into our politics, let's not tear down that mansion. If that estate is destroyed, there will be no law, no execution, no judgment. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0242par0069	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0243par0072	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0242par0073	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0243par0074	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We've always said we support the RD law as the Republican People's Party. There are flaws, we have made positive contributions, and our commissioners have tried to make a very serious contribution to the Commission. And here we are, with a certain number of proposals, making an effort to improve it for the better. But, you know, we're always saying that since it's clear that there's no Commission anymore, we'll interrupt the session... and since it's clear that our motions will no longer be supported... in the following articles... we haven't made a motion for several. But we'd like to bring to attention something we can't discuss with the motion, and if Mr. Secretary gives the order, it can be dealt with through a joint motion. In the 28th article that we're going to talk about, Mr. Secretary, there's an incentive for R&D centers, and they're saying that at this point from entrepreneurs in technology development areas, that the importance of incentives to these R&D centers is for themselves, and that they need to make an adjustment here, but if we make a motion here, if we go out, if we talk about it, if we go out, there's a tradition that I like, and there's a tradition that I don't even like, Mr. Minister, for some reason, it's not following the tradition that only improves matter from material improbabilities, maybe economics, maybe for other reasons. Mr. Secretary, in a place like this, where everyone contributes positively, we don't agree with a lot of enthusiasm for good, even in suggestions. In fact, when he rejects the motions, he's acting as if there's a need, raising his two hands to a fellow minister. We asked him, who's he giving power of attorney to? They offered us a strange power of attorney, such as all ministers to all ministers.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0244par0078	I'll turn on your microphone. Complete your words, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0243par0079	They submitted a bizarre Justice and Development Party application in file, such as that all ministers are acting as minister to all ministers. On the other hand, it is clear that the ministers must submit to the Court, which minister they are acting to, and the document on that power of attorney. We do not participate in suggestions to better all opposition parties, even though it is not presented properly and without need. We didn't make it up to the Minister and the spirit of the matter. And after that, since it is clear that the Minister has failed to benefit from his efforts to heal, we have no motion. I'm supplying.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0244par0081	Thank you, Mr. Special. - Mr. President, a very brief statement... Mr. Secretary, please come in, sir. Now, Mr. President, dear fellow lawmakers, we have always been open to positive contributions from the beginning of this law. In fact, in the 28th article, the CHP Group's motion on the Commission, at the point of setting the criteria in accordance with the views of the Design Advice Council -- there was Mr. Arslan, here was our friend in the Commission, Mr. Tahsin Tarhan -- we have agreed to this. Now, we certainly don't have the understanding that we don't accept every motion given to the content of the law's bill or to reject it altogether. And in what you're saying now, it's better if this is the one from the shareholders of the AR-GE. If there's anything you call it, please bring it in, and we'll evaluate it together.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0245par0086	We did, Mr. Secretary. No, you didn't. Didem Hanim has been doing diplomacy all morning. You said we can't. BlM, SANAYI and TEKNOLOJI LOOK No, no one came to me. Our friend just told me, sir. No, look, I haven't heard anything from any of the opposition parties since we started seeing each other in Parliament, which is the context of this law. When the motions are too high...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0246par0093	There are motions, there are motions.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0245par0094	That's what we call a suggestion.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0246par0095	That's the suggestion. Here, especially in terms of Turkey's future, this RD law is an area where all parties highlight their own party programmes and election declarations, more or less in common sentences. At this point, there is absolutely no difference in power-migration in our approach, but you can appreciate that the motion has been given, not just the text of the law, the speech of the law, but, you know, it's not possible for us, sir, to accept some change in words, but to enrich the content of the bill, to allow us to ignore any proposal that will satisfy the needs of the shareholders. For the record, I felt the need to explain. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0247par0098	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0248par0099	Mr. President, just one more quick word...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0247par0100	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0248par0101	Mr. President, thank you for understanding. Mr. Minister, none of the five motions the Republican People's Party has made over the second chapter, as you say, is not a formal motion, if you examine them. If that's what you're saying... INTERVIEWING, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGI Our commissioner, Didem Hanım, passed it on to our Commissioner Ziya Bey. Mr. Ziya said it would be very positive, but it would be a burden. Our suggestion is -- bring the motion, let's take a five-minute recess, let's sign it together -- that the incentive to RD centers should also be provided for entrepreneurs in technology development areas. It's already in the law. How's that, sir? The commissioner says it will expand the scope, increase the load.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0249par0107	Thank you, Mr. Special. - Mr. President, if you'll excuse me... Mr. Secretary, one moment, sir. Now Mr. Free Special is making some suggestions. You're saying you're ready to meet positive suggestions, and I understand that you're referring to other suggestions other than proposals. I understand there's a disagreement. If it's possible for us to work together like this, we can take a break, if you'd like, or not, I'll continue. [[Continued voices from the AK PARTY rows]] Yes, there are two motions on Article 28: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that Article 28 of Article 28 (f) be replaced in Article 8 of Article 28 of the Article 28 of Law (f) with the Law on Supporting Investigative Research and Development Actions. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Tüğim Çetin Mustafa Mit Yusuf Halaçoğlu Celal Adan Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The fee added to the second joke of Law Article 5746 with Article 28 of Law Bill 97 which is currently in session cannot benefit from this exception over 45 hours per week and additional working hours. We propose and propose that the statement be removed from the text of substance. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We can't agree, Mr. President. He wants to talk about a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with, İdris Baluken, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0250par0133	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. I would also like to respond to the speech that was made just now, as well as to some criticism that Mr. Naci Bostancı had brought to us through the nation's understanding of state. Mr. Bostanci is a reader, but as far as I can tell, when it comes to us, he prefers to act with prejudices in his mind rather than with the HDP. If he had had had had a chance to study it, he would have found that HDP was opposed to capitalist modernity, not just to the nation's state's understanding, but as a whole, including the nation's state, to see capitalism, industrialism, and the nation's state as a problem. We have a paradigm that prioritizes the democratic nation, the communist economy, and the ecological community against each of these three hacks, and we say that the fundamental issues of Turkey and the Middle East will be resolved if all of them survive. Thus, as the origin of all the problems in the Middle East, we cannot possibly accept the accusations against us through a nation's understanding of state, which we consider to be the backbone of all the problems in the Middle East. The origin of all the problems we've already had is not just for Turkey, but for the entire Middle East, but for the borders of imperial forces and regional hegemonic forces that have taken a ruler into their hands and created nations. All over the world right now, as the nation is inoculating state understandings, the borders between countries are being replaced by collective alliances, while you are still in the midst of your own administration -- you've always complained -- you've dug trenches, you've built walls, the same way as Iraq, the same way as Iran. On the contrary, we see this understanding as a troubled understanding. What we call the democratic nation is a structure in which the rights of Turk, Kurdish, Arab, Lazkek, Çerkek, Alevi, Sunni, Sunni, and Sunni, are guaranteed by plural democracy, a system. Again, there's no need to explain capitalism, Mr. Bostanci knows it very well. I mean, on one side of the country, when the kids are starving, putting their heads on the pillow, not building million-dollar palaces on the other, but against that, too. Instead, we advocate a communist economic understanding, a disintegration of income, an egalitarian understanding where their injustices have been eliminated. When you say industrialism, you see the situation in Artvin Cerattepe, which is what we're talking about today, a system of exploitation, a system of plundering, mining, hexing, I don't know, dams, all over the world for the sake of maximum profit. We're expressing that this understanding is wrong, that the understanding that needs to be first is a paradigm about protecting nature and human beings. Now, some may think differently about this nation's state structure, but we defend it not just for this geography but for all sides, so that we don't contradict ourselves. So, imagine, if we're defending the nation state, then how are we going to address the situation of the Turks in Bulgaria, I don't know, West Thrace, who were assimilated for the Bulgarian nation? How do we take on Muslims who can't have faith there, who are assimilated? Just because the Bulgarian nation is being created doesn't mean we're going to take it out on an understanding. In this regard, we want to express that our position is clear. Let alone an approach to Turkey's division paranoia, so if we defend it, we'll come out here, we'll say it, we won't be afraid, we'll pay the price, we don't have that kind of understanding. So, right now, let's create a division in Turkey, a sovereign nation state, let's create a Kurdistan. Our thoughts on this matter are very clear. I wish our universities were free, but this capitalist modernity I'm talking about, the idea of a democratic nation, the opportunity to do research on them, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0251par0137	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/540) We propose and propose that the statement of Article 28 (f) mentioned in the 8th statement of the Article of the Law (f) shall be changed in the form of the appropriate papers, and shall be changed in accordance with the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions. Spiritual Ersoy (Osmania) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We can't participate, Mr. President. Ruhi Ersoy, MP of Osmaniye, has asked for a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0252par0150	Mr. President, on behalf of our group of esteemed MPs, I salute you. There is a variety of debate over the sum of our values and values that make up the state, the nation, the state, for a period of time, and our basic concepts. Of course, on the stand of the nation, those who are at the point of representing the nation will express their thoughts. Although our exit point is RD law, the views are expressed from this platform. Sometimes the concepts used in expression can be anachronic expressions, and sometimes they're just ordinary words for someone who's new to him, but has an area of expertise. Of course, this is the political platform, not the Academy's bench, but by combining politics with the Academy, people can express their views on acquishs. The idea of the nationalist movement is that the state is an eternity; the nation is the origin of this eternal period; the concept of the people is its citizens in the cross-section. Thus, the first Turkish documents that have expressed its presence on the earth, began with the inscriptions of Wise Khan, Tonyukuk, and began today in the spirit world of the spirits, from now on, and from now on, the responsibility of the people, again to be sent to a Turkish-Islamic body, is to be sent back to the earth by our faith. Just as we think about the happiness of the citizen in everyday life today, if we're producing politics, it's possible to plan for the future, not only in today's day-to-day life, but in today's day-to-day life, because our values, our national identity, have brought us together over the sum of values that make our history. So, civilization, which has existed in this land for a thousand years, will only be possible with this fundamental discurity in the next thousand years. Therefore, when we consider the state of Sultan Suleiman the Law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, and the matter of the empire in our civilization, which is considered to be a hundred letters -- not the Shehzade Mustafa issue, which we have learned in the first place, unfortunately through popular culture, but the case of Whiteit, and the matter of killing the state without spilling blood, including the children of Whiteit. Yes, you can't explain a number of values with a specific mind, these values represent the existence of a spiritual force that exists without displaying its presence. This spiritual force, sometimes a person, sometimes a mebus, sometimes a citizen; sometimes in everyday life, it can be described by a citizen who is able to express himself in a language, in a language, in a language, in a language, in a language, in a sentence, in a language, in a language, in what we call the "source of life." We believe that we should act on these values knowing that we're walking the way, and in the central-side dilemma, the theory of Ibn Haldun says that those who come from the region to the center, after a while, they become centralized and form new edges. When decomposition begins, a new walk from the edge tries to prevent that decay. Here's a government trying to update itself by filling itself with other sources of testimony, despite various decay in the 14-year period of power, but there's a nationalist movement party in this nation's presence, with national unity and sincerity, in good preparation. The Nationalist Movement Party has been with them in terms of the values we just discussed, first my country, then my state, then my party, and then me. Because it has revealed its understanding, it has been with them in the right works, in the struggles. We act on the principle of knowingly and willingly being there for political will to carry out its understanding of state and to be firm about it and to be by strict rules and to be by its side in all its struggles so that it may say. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all, and wish you good evening.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0253par0157	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, the Commission has a request to amend the 28th amendment before voting. I promise the commission now. Here you go. SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, ENERGIES, INFORMATION, AND TEKNOLOGY THE PRESIDENT OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNICATION (CONNEC), Mr. President, as part of the resolution, it is necessary to add the provision of Article 5746 to the third article of the draft. Thank you. Mr. President, a brief statement... Here you go, Mr. Secretary, and I promise you an explanation. In a recent meeting with the Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman, Mr. Free Special, we're going to implement there an arrangement on the proposal of the Republican People's Party Group to help those who have worked both the science and social sciences in support of the next production reform package, hopefully, where we have our next production reform package prepared. I'd like to make sure that's on the record. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary has made a different statement. The Commission says, valuable lawmakers: The term "designation Council" in Article 28 of the article we have discussed must be added to the phrase "Turkish" because it has been passed as the Turkish Council of Ministers' decision. The Commission requests that the clause be voted on with the authority of a review on this issue. And I approve that request. If the General Assembly sees fit, the matter will be legalized. As part of the commission's correction, I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There are two motions on Article 29: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, ranking 97, shall be changed in accordance with Article 29 of the Law Charter on Changes in Some Laws and Decisions. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Celal Adan Mustafa Mit Ruhi Ersoy Nuri Okutan Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement be changed in the form of the opinion taken from the United States of Turkey in accordance with Article 29 of Law Bill 97. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mizgin Irgat Ahmet Yıldırım Bitlis Mish Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, İğdır MP who has asked for a statement on the proposal that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0254par0191	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear MPs, of course, we talked a lot about Syria today, and many of our orator friends expressed their views. We also discussed Turkey's foreign policy on the Middle East and Syria in private, bringing it up. Again, issues related to the recent suppression of the NYD by Turkey's artillery were brought to the attention, but as you know, only the AKP government considers it a terrorist organisation in Syria. Compared to this, almost all countries in the world consider the NYD (PPG) and its military power, YPJ (YPG) as a structure that advocates a democratic and pluralistic structure that fights against ISIS and Al Qaeda gangs. For the past four days, even five days, artillery shots from the Turkish border -- as you know -- have been bombed by villages and towns in Syria, where the PYD has taken over. Russia then took Turkey's artillery and harassment to the United Nations Security Council.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0255par0194	Hey, I'm talking to you! What's Syria to you?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0254par0195	According to media reports, the United Nations Security Council has now reached a decision that it should call for a unanimous decision to stop artillery shootings against Turkey and Syria. Dear friends, we have always stressed here that Turkey's policy in Syria so far is not the right policy in both the long term and in terms of Turkey's internal dynamics, in terms of the region's dynamics and in Turkey's interests. We supported it with examples of history, supported it with dynamics in Turkey, supported it with historical history. In fact, the sykes-Picot Agreement, which all friends have expressed here, has drawn artificial boundaries, such as the border of Turkey-Syrian, as you all know, is defined as the border of a train line, not only of historical facts, and we have insisted that Turkey's best allies in Syria and the Middle East politics would be Kurds, both in Iraq and Syria, and even in Iran, as its historical past would be, will be the Kurds. But unfortunately, in foreign politics, especially in Syrian policy, the AKP government insists on denying Kurds, refusing, continuing a policy on Kurdish hostility. This is the decision of the United Nations Security Council, as it is now reflected in the press, the international response to this wrong policy in the international arena. Once again, friends, we call: The AKP has to go back to the right policy, and the AKP government has to set up a long-term foreign policy strategy. Otherwise, today, the PYD is the enemy, just like the policy it conducted ten years ago in South Kurdistan, and then, two years later, it's a friend. Syria must not fall into the same position. Two years later, maybe a year later, the Kurds in Syria are our allies, before they become our friends, the right way, the right way, the right way, I think, from now, tomorrow, Turkey needs to implement this alliance, this right policy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He must give up on the barbaric ISIS and Al-Qaeda organisations in Syria. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0256par0201	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change the statement of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, which is currently held in the following Article 29 of the Law Charter. Mehmet Ahrazoğlu (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We can't agree, Mr. President. No one wants to talk about the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. On the other hand, the Council of Ministers is authorized to reduce the number of equal R&D and design personnel to a specific number and make sectoral differentiation, allowing businesses operating with fewer RD or design personnel in sectors to open an RD or design centre. In this scope, the RD and design centre for the sectors that are strategically important to our country has been encouraged to open. It is possible for entrepreneurs or SMEs to operate with fewer RDs and design personnel who aim to do RD studies. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There is a motion on Article 30, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "restraint" or "result" in Article 30 of Law Bill 97, which is currently in session, be changed to "delay and/or cancel." İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. We don't agree, Mr. President. On the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with, Mr. İdris Balaken is a Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0257par0230	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. In fact, all of the problems we have are because we lack empathy. So when we get up here, we can see those feelings in the eyes that look at us with hatred.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0258par0234	We? There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0259par0235	And we're tired as human beings.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0257par0236	We don't feel that close to everyone who sits at this time, but as representatives of the people, as representatives of the people, we know that there are certain things to be discussed here, as a duty to the people we've taken the vote from. There is no freedom of thought, there is no freedom of speech, there is no freedom of speech, there is no freedom of the academy. So the members of the group are here, the ministers are here. Perhaps, as in the past, we listen to what the people's representatives say and take notes, and we express our thoughts on it.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0260par0238	You've been claiming it for days!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0257par0239	Look, I'm going to read an article for empathy, an article written in 1995 by Ahmet Alton, and I think he was sentenced to 1 year and 8 months. He says, "If Mustafa Kemal had an Ottoman pasha born in Musul, not in Thessaloniki, imagine if he had named the Republic of Kurdistan, which he had founded after the War of Salvation had been carried out with the Turks and Kurds. If all of us were to be called Kurds because all of the citizens of the Republic of Kurdistan will be called Kurds, if the banners were to be hung by the sign of the people of the Republic of Kurdistan, and the sign of the people of Syria, and the sign of the people of Kadiköy, and the Kızılay Square, and the sign of Kordon, and the sign of the people who said, "Happy is Kurd. " If it had been said that there were no Turks in Kurdistan, that everyone was actually Kurds, that they were Turks, that they were actually Kurds, that they were Turkish men, and that they were also Turkish friends who wrote them, let me remind you that the Kurds had a thousand years of history, that the Kurds were the main owners of Anatolia, that the Mongols, Huns, Etruscans were actually the ancestors of Kurds, and that the Kurds in Osmanlı were the leaders of the Kurds. If we were banned from taking names such as Teoman, Genghis, Attila, Osman, Berfin, Beruj, Tiruj, Nevruz. If all the TV broadcasts were banned, all the TV broadcasts were made in Kurdish... if we had to write our novels, stories, poems in Kurdish, only Kurdish songs, if we had our newspapers out of Kurdish... if only Kurdish were taught in our schools and were banned from studying Turkish... we are Turks, we have a history, we have a language. If the police had constantly followed us in Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Bursa, Edirne, and the police in Edirne, we would have been insulted because we were Turkish and suspected that we were separatists who wanted to break up the Republic of Kurdistan. If after the coup of September 12th, all the people in the western region were to be put into prisons, tortured beyond belief, put into the cells where the mud was stuck up to their throats, and their insides were to be crushed with water, and their legs were to be torn apart by fierce dogs. If our homes had been raided, our apartments would have been burned down with allegations that we had helped Turkish terrorists, if we had been taken out of our home before we could even buy any goods and were sent to Diyarbakır, Hakkari, to live in tents... would we have agreed to this, in which you are all Kurds as citizens of the Republic of Kurdistan, and why you can be Prime Minister if you wanted to be a sign of rights?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0261par0244	The AK PARTY wiped out what you just said.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0257par0245	If not, would we insist that our Turkish identity, language, culture be accepted as citizens of this country? A writing that goes, "We want for ourselves here, we don't want to give it to the people we agree to be equal, is it worth spilling so much blood and dragging the country into a deadlock?" If your answer is no, then you've passed the test of democracy, but your answer is still to write this article, and I'm saying that we have nothing to say, even if it's not taunting this piece, which we're trying to express in order for you to develop empathy. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0262par0249	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There is a motion on Article 31: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 31 of Law Bill 97, which is currently in session, the ministry proposes and proposes that the statement in its name be changed by the ministry. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mizgin Irgat Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Behçet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. About the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with?
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0263par0264	Motive...
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0262par0265	I'm reading the reason: The arrangement intended for the matter to be more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There is a motion on Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the publication of this law, which is included in Article 32 of Law Bill 97, shall be changed in the form of the official newspaper of this law. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mizgin Irgat Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Behçet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0264par0281	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0262par0282	No one wants to talk about the motion. The arrangement intended for the matter to be more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There is a motion in Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Council of Ministers shall conduct these laws, which are part of Article 33 of Law Bill 97, which is currently in session. • These provisions shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers. We shall order and propose that they be changed in the form of the Council of Ministers. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. There's no motion to comment on the motion. The arrangement intended for the matter to be more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. Dear MPs, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Now, I'm going to make a commitment to lawmakers demanding the color of the game in accordance with Article 86 of the Civil Code. Şahin Tin, Denizli MP. Here you go, Mr. Tin. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0265par0311	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of stating the color of my vote on the entire bill under discussion. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, I ask God's mercy to all our beloved martyrs, including our righteous brother, Mustafa, whom we buried yesterday in Denizli, who gave their lives for our nation's peace, freedom of our country, and the eternal existence of our flag in this land. We have signed 14 years of reforms in Turkey and carried out many successful actions with our nation. As Turkey, we have the right pride of being a country that renews itself in every field and strengthens itself and speaks of its name in the world. The obstacles to Turkey's growth must be overcome together, domestic production must be supported more. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers should no longer be content with being the country that produces technology, Turkey must also be a country that sells technology to the world. In this sense, the RD Reform Package will give power to our industrialists and manufacturers. With this legal arrangement, our country's RD culture will be further developed, with great support for the power of the scientific boards to the industry. It is no doubt important for our scientists to power the production industry to be in the market for better quality and brand-valued domestic products. Because production is the work of heroism. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk about my own naval science regarding the production industry. As we all know, Denizli is a city that produces powerful, entrepreneurial people. In particular, in the textile and ready clothing industry, Denizli is a self-acknowledged and branded city. The importance of design in textile and ready-made clothing is extremely large. We must provide support for the design. The bill we're talking about is an important innovation for all sectors related to the textile and ready-made clothing industry. In addition to the textile industry, the production of many machines, marble, cables and agricultural products is also opened to the world from Denizli, with the production of new and domestic brands. The benefits of this reform package are indispensable in terms of our country and our province, in order to help our young people with innovative ideas, to strengthen the professors involved in university-industrial co-operation activities. In the name of our Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, our Deputy Minister, the EC PARTI Group, our concerned bureaucrats, all of our members of the Commission, who have made the first light of this reforming arrangement, especially our Prime Minister, on behalf of our industry and our nation. Finally, I can't help but mention that the terror-enhanced hand in our country is deeply upsetting us. In fact, the biggest obstacle to the growth of our country is to our inner peace, organized from the outside and the contractors inside are terrorists, no matter what its name. Under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it would never be acceptable for any MP to speak out to our heroic security forces as a terrorist contractor. This is the stand of the nation, and it will never and will never be a chair where those who support terror and terrorist preach. This great nation never forgets traitors. History is the greatest witness to that. Dear lawmakers say I will vote on the entire bill discussed, and I salute your grand delegation and our nation.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0266par0320	Thank you, Mr. Tin. Against Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Tanal. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0267par0324	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute and salute you all. As the Republican People's Party Group, we have contributed to all the laws in favour of Turkey so far, and we will continue to contribute to those in favor. But is this existing RD bill sufficient? Inadequate. Inadequate how? I'm asking the Minister now: is there any legal protection of the existing RD law as a result of this development and research? You're going to say "Vark." By what law is there? I will now say to you, according to the Law of the Rights. According to the Copyright Act, when we look at Turkey's ranking, it is below the world's ranking. In this respect, no matter how perfect you try to make the law, it's useless if there are no regulations for the protection of these laws. Here, as the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Group Deputy President Free Special has given the same answer to the Ministry's request to encourage initiatives in the technology development area: we have bag laws ahead, we put them in it. Mr. Secretary, really, this answer is not the right technique in terms of law enforcement techniques. What is it? When the lawmaker, or legislature, makes a law, a carpet has to make the law exactly the same way it does when it's made by thin loops. In this way, we will do it again, indiscriminately, or indiscriminately, or we will change it. It is not in accordance with Parliament's method of lawmaking. Of course, research and development, what we call the AR-Ge law... it has to be in the free environment, it has to be free of oppression, it has to be the rule of law, it has to be the freedom. Can this be done in this present pressure environment? That's what we'll all see in the future. Why do I assume that? Can you imagine, the judges are in prison for their decisions? What did these judges do? İstanbul 29. If the Prime Criminal Judge is in prison because he has rejected the court's decision, if another judge is in prison because he has decided to release him, if the Chief Public Prosecutor in Adana is in prison because he has decided to search and stop the arrest of illegal weapons for having been transported by truck, we will all be able to appreciate how much that could have improved in this environment if the police were in prison because he was investigating corruption and theft. Yes, the law is good when I make the law, Mr. Secretary, but I'm here to tell you that I have human rights legislation. The 10th article of our Constitution seeks the principle of equality in all areas. Article 2 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights seeks equality, in the field of work, in all public institutions. Article 26 of the Convention on Personal and Political Rights is seeking equality. The European Social Conditional Convention V. The article "E" in your department is bringing in the ban on discrimination. Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights brings the ban on discrimination. These contracts are all there. Now, I'm looking at the bureaucrats of your Ministry, we have three sisters, the others are all men. So we're looking for the principle of equality, we're looking for the ban on discrimination, and first we need to change this structure, this logic, this thought.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0268par0333	You guys take your seats!
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0267par0334	We're talking red tape here, and you're making this distinction with the people hired, our staff friends hired. It's the AKP's government that takes bureaucrats. So, as a result, so many international contracts, constitutions... the Minister of Labor is here. The 5th article of the Labour Law rejects all discrimination, searching for the principle of equality, but unfortunately, whatever law you bring in, the idea is that as long as you don't absorb these laws, as long as you don't absorb equality, as long as the logic doesn't change... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't think progress is going to happen in this society. Hopefully, I'd like to be embarrassed in the future. I bid you all good evening, my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0269par0339	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. The negotiations of the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I will make the decision of the General Assembly in accordance with Article 139 of the Civil Code on the way of the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled for a vote. In addition, I would like to ask the ministers to vote in the three-minute period envisioned for the vote, which includes the color of the game and the name and the signature of its vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of an open vote on Supporting Research and Development Actions by the Law and Changes in Decisions by Some Laws and Laws: "The number of votes used: 255 [[X]] The bill is legalized, so good luck. The Minister has a request for a thank-you speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, we've discussed and passed a very important law on the future of our country. Indeed, there are particularly stunning developments in science and technology in the world. Now, the difference between countries in the world that have science and technology and countries that don't have science and technology is growing every day. The world is moving on to its fourth industrial revolution. In order to stay in this race, Turkey has to make more added products, make the production structure qualified and continuous so that it doesn't get stuck in the middle income trap any longer. In this regard, the obligatory destination for Turkey is RD and innovation. In science and technology, Turkey will be a country that produces, develops, exports, or imports, uses and consumes either in RD and innovation. As the EC PARTI government, we want Turkey to be a country that produces, develops and exports; so far all our policies are aimed at strengthening Turkey's entire infrastructure at this point.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0270par0361	It's not a thank-you speech, it's a propaganda speech, Mr. President. It's not a thank-you speech. This is a very important step towards Turkey's ability to produce a higher quality of product, a higher quality and sustainable production structure, as a result of a genuinely selfless effort. I hope this law is good for our country, for our science and technology ecosystem. I'd especially like to thank all of our fellow lawmakers who have been involved in the legislation of this bill. The ruling opposition, which contributed to the adoption of the law, is to thank the members of the group and the members of the group of all our groups. In the preparation of the law, I would like to thank the Honorable President of our Commission for Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology, and all members of its law enforcement process, and thank you very much. And I want to thank all of my colleagues who have worked hard on the drafting of the law and all of our fellow workers who have contributed and worked hard to the preparation of this law. Mr. President, I thank you very much, and I wish our law to be good for our country, for our nation, and for our future, and I salute each and every one of you with the warmest of love.
tbmm-2016-02-16sit04spe0271par0366	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And I thank the members of the Presidential Court, the members of the Chairman of the Laws, the stenographers, the friends of Kaves, all the friends who have been served. Members of parliament, we will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the State of Turkey's Government for Enlarged Information Change International Tax Compliance Agreement and Approval of the Covenant Act in accordance with its 2nd agenda. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will no longer be available, it is now 14 p.m. on Wednesday (February 17th 2016) to discuss legislation and proposals in order to discuss other tasks from the commissions. I'm closing the meeting at 00. I bid you good night.
