tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first off-the-book statement belongs to Denizli MP Kazim Asslan, who wants to talk about Denizli's problems. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. I have made a promise to share with you many of our ongoing and unresolved problems and to present them to our Assembly. The naval industry, the marine manufacturer, has certainly reached a stationary point, especially since it was originally a developmental province, especially because the Propulsion Act 5084 had not been implemented in Denizli, and was followed by a remote incentive by Denizli, which was second in line with further incentives. After 2008, 34 factories were closed in our Denizli. There is no new factory in Denizli. Investments continue as investments in the development of technology, to boost competition, and to reduce the cost of production. My dear friends, it is clear that the industry of Denizli, because of the slowness of the naval economy, has been damaged in this area by our workers, our farmers, our farmers, our tourists, our entrepreneurs, our industrialists, our exporters. Unfortunately, we're looking at a stable Denizli from a live Denizli market. My dear friends, the industry is very important in Denizli, but agriculture and livestock are also very important. Tourism is also an important work area. Therefore, there are also considerable reductions in livestock, especially because of the lack of incentives given in agriculture, the failure to find the value of dairy, and the fact that the costs have increased, and that there are no actual profits expected from the products that are sold. The fact that tourism has slowed down, especially because of the wrong foreign policy of the current government, shows that tourists have come to Pamukkale, a very important part of our Denizli. Therefore, incentives to other tourist areas are also useful in our Denizli province. The biggest problem in agriculture is cost and market. If you don't support the cost, if you don't support the market, if you don't really support the cost of climate change, if you don't really support the farmers, the producer's harm, it's clear that our friends now work in agriculture and livestock will have a very hard time maintaining it. My dear friends, now, in our industry, there really is a stasis. Because of the high cost and the high price increases and the high competitiveness and the fierce competition, we can see clearly that our industrialist cannot see the profits they are really looking for in exports and domestic markets. Therefore, for our Denizli, for our Turkey, for our industry to invest more, for our industry to grow in Turkey, we need real support to make new investments, to increase investment, production, employment and exports. For this reason, the VAT on the electricity given to our industry and businesses must be reset, the tax must be removed, the support for transportation must be given absolutely, so that we can build a structure that allows our industrialist to produce more and grow more, and I salute you all with love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you, Mr. lion. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Kayseri MP Hülya Nergis, who asked for a comment on the Kayseri Ercies Project. Here you are, Mr. Nargis.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0004par0023	Mr. President, I have made a promise today to talk about Ercijas and his district as deputy Kayseri for Tourism Week. Mount Ercijas is a volcanic mountain that has become a symbol of the city in the southwestern part of Kayseri. Scientific research shows that this mountain last exploded in 253 B.C.E. It is known that this eruption was caused by the stone furnaces around the city and by the peribacas around Sight, and especially by the large masses of crater ash that we call the craters around the city. In addition to the formation of the peribacas, the geological movement around the mountain also resulted in Tekir Yaylaı and Sultan Sazı. During the time of the mayorate of our Vice President Mehmet Özhaseki, Mt. Ercenas winter sports and a master's master's plan for tourism. The project was launched in 2006, with a successful project prepared for a worldwide company. The project aims to make Kayseri (Kaseri) the centre of Turkey's winter sports, hosting large-scale national and international sports events, long-term world championships and even Olympic games. The goal of this fundamental goal is to create a permanent source of income for the Kayseri economy, to provide 5,000 jobs, to provide a night stay for 5,000 people, 100 million euros directly, 100 million euros indirect revenues, to create an attractive sports and social centre for visitors from abroad and abroad, and more importantly, to create a strong and marketable brand product for our Kayseri. In developing world conditions, sports and tourism are no longer considered different. We are now in favor of the organisation of the Olympics, which we can count amongst large-scale international sports organizations. The plumbing moves in this area are also large-scale. Its proximity to Cappadocia and the Valley of Ihlara, which is of great value in nature and cultural tourism within the same region, also adds a different meaning to the facility. This project, which became a winter sports centre, was soon implemented and launched into business in early 2008. By closing a serious gap in the area of Kayseri and our country, I'd like to express with pride that we have more modernity than the winter sports centers we envy on television until yesterday. From the day the plant was opened to run, local winter sports has grown to an extraordinary degree. Internal tourism movement is being observed from all over Turkey. There are also studies in Kayseri, the European championships, and the Turkish championships, from internationally important sports organizations. Serious work is being done in the Middle East, especially in Israel. In addition, our Kaiseri (Kayseri) has a great deal of land and air access to Ercijas Sports Facility. The idea father of this mega project, the current AK PARTY Vice President, Mr. Mehmet Özhaseki Sir, I owe thanks on behalf of all our countrymen. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0005par0032	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Van MP Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0006par0037	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I've taken an off-the-book promise on the Van freeway project that hasn't been completed in six years. Yes, the city of Van is a city of considerable importance because it has a city that governs and governs both the social and economic life of the region. Come, it is evident that there is still no circuit road for the van, which is of such economic and social importance. Unfortunately, Van is the only province between its class and the cities on its scale, where there is no freeway. The Van freeway project, even though it was designed before the earthquake, has not yet been completed. That is because the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has put the government on the premises in the project. Yes, it's the Shehr, the Law of Development, the 18th Amendment. He's become a serious pain in the ass. According to this hex, the circuit road is envisioned not by the resources of the central administration and through publicisation, but by the seizure of the municipality's properties at the crossing. We don't think it has any purpose other than to turn Van Metropolitan City against the public in the environmental road project, which is responsible for the central administration. Dear lawmakers, the Van Ecoway project, which has been projected before the earthquake in Van. But has not been completed for six years. The insistence of central administration on Article 18 of the Building Law has turned into a snake story. The Metropolitan Municipality has made demands to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism to remove its long-standing harm to the movers. When this is removed, the municipality's plan to implement the circuit road has been excluded and has pledged to carry out recycling and new practices. However, the Ministry and its local authorities have never responded to these demands. The ministry's insistence not to remove the evil that it has placed on the premises is also contrary to the court's rulings. Because the State's decision dated March 1, 2016 states that the Van circuit road is not possible to be opened through the area, which will be cut off by the provision of Article 18 of the Building Law. It is also stated that if applied, the neighborhood will be harmed. Therefore, the road must be opened with the means of publicisation. I'd like to ask from here: Why do government and its institutions protect the Vanians from the most appropriate publicization of publicized services, such as the freeway, using methods such as publicization in the most unlikely places? What is the reason for this double standard? We believe that this point on Van's environment is not independent of the government's political concerns. In more than 30 places, the freeway is made by the means of nationalisation, while Van is insisted on being part of the 18th article. It is clear that this insistence has no purpose but to bring the city and its people against each other and to withdraw the support of the Van people from the municipality. As our Metropolitan Co-Chair, Mr. Bekir Kaya, says, the state is unjust to the people by applying the 18th Amendment. I also want to tell the people responsible for the failure to reach the freeway: No matter how hard you try, you will not be able to bring the people against the municipalities of the people. Dear lawmakers, the area where the circuit road will be made is our city's new and only development area. In addition to the municipality, business environments and NGOs have expressed that the insistence on implementing Article 18 is a negative situation for the city, especially because it has concerns that citizens with land routes will be victims and will become poor. Public resources must be used effectively in order to prevent economic recession in Van, who has experienced an earthquake and is just trying to recover. As I put an end to my words, I wish that political concerns would be put aside and that the necessary formalisation process would be carried out immediately and that the VanEST would return to the environment. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0007par0049	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the system within a minute of their position. Mr. Clumsy, here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0008par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Government officials, as I have often said in the General Assembly, our province of Hatay is experiencing intense feelings of war in Syria and a great deal of economic, social and cultural difficulties. Our province of Hatay is located in the 4th district of Hatay on a new regional map, with six levels of development in the incentive system, according to the development levels of the provinces. However, he feels the impact of more wars than the provinces in his category. Given all of this, Hatay, it is clear that there should be more incentives to our province. As the Ministry of Development, is the special situation in recent years being observed for encouragement? If not, would you consider setting up such an incentive for the provinces affected by the war? We demand it, we thank it.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0009par0057	Thank you. Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0010par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. In our country, drug use and substance abuse have reached a frightening extent. Experts warn the families that the start of drugs is reduced to 10 years old. According to Health Ministry data, the number of people receiving treatment for substance abuse from 2009-2014 is 1,182,000, and 33 percent of them live in Istanbul. In particular, we see with regret that substance abuse is on the rise in the neighborhoods where urban transformation projects are being implemented. The number and capacity of treatment centers is unfortunately inadequate. As a congressman, as I see these children and our young people and listen to their families, it hurts me. It is the common responsibility of all lawmakers here to protect our young and children against these harmful substances. I'd like to address the government: Before it's too late to put this matter on its agenda, the government must implement both preventive and protective measures as soon as possible.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0011par0063	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0012par0065	Mr. President, Balıkesir Square Yaylacık the roads of our neighborhoods are still dirt roads and our countrymen are always in dust. They've applied to places of interest many times, but they're not getting any results. They believe they are heavily punished for voting for CHP. Because they had given up hope, the locals were finally able to make their own way of life. Stop this discrimination, you're running this country on tax dollars. To separate people from the AKP, CHP, or any other party is the greatest evil that can be done to this country. Again, the stream in the town of Karesi, Newköy district, is officially running with mud, around the stream is a dump. They say it's because of the waste that flows into the stream. Isn't there any control around here, and this pollution can't be avoided? Can't this stream be reformed? We can't understand why you're so insensitive to these problems and troubles. We invite the authorities to join us immediately.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0011par0067	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0013par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. On 29 October 2010, the Cankurtaran Tunnel, which connects Artvin to Hopa, the Black Sea, was laid down. That's where I was at the groundbreaking ceremony. According to the normal project, the end of this tunnel was nine hundred and ten days. Minister of Transport Mr. Buli Yıldırım met with interested firm officials and agreed two years and two months in front of everyone, so in 24 months this tunnel would be finished. From October 29, 2010 to the sixth year to today, the Artvinians are unfortunately not going through that tunnel. For six years, the tunnel story has turned into a snake story. The road to Artvin-Borchka, which is the continuation of the tunnel, has yet to be built, and there are flaws in the access routes on the Hopa side. I call upon the government here: I demand that the construction of this Mount Hopa, which returns to the story of the serpent, be completed immediately, and that the necessary measures be taken to ensure that Artvin's people are served, and that the procedures be carried out in a hurry. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0014par0072	Thank you. Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0015par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. As you know, our President collects chiefs from time to time, gives instructions, sends messages. When we go to our town on weekends, we talk to our chiefs, we listen to their problems. I'd like to report one or two of these problems. You know, the watchman app in Turkey has been lifted for years. With one final law, this practice has been re-established in some areas. Especially in rural and neighborhoods, because of the theft and security problem, our chiefs have a request like this, so they have demands to be put back into place by the guards. Secondly, our people who built a house on the edge of their garden in the countryside are not allowed to subscribe to electricity and water because of the license. Can't there be a solution to what used to be done? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0016par0080	Thank you, too. Mr Enç...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0017par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. About a third of the world's 12,000 endemic plant species are located in our country. About 500 of the 750 endemic plants found in the Toros are in Antalya. As a result of nearly four years of hard work, Turkey's first EXPOا will be opened in Antalya on Friday (April 22nd) with the presence of our Prime Minister and President. There are now 53 countries in Turkey as participants in the EXPO (exPO), which have been held since 1960. On this occasion, we are number 1 in Europe at the accession point. I want to thank our President, Mr. Prime Minister, our Minister of Agriculture, Tourism, Transport, Forestry and Water Affairs, and especially our Foreign Minister, the Mayor of the Metropolitan.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0018par0087	Thank you. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0019par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. The Niğde economy is based on agriculture. This year, potatoes, apples, beans, they couldn't find a buyer for the cost. The farmer is miserable, the government does not provide solutions to his problems. The market market market is also stalled because when the farmer can't win in the village, he can't come to the shop and shop. The tradesman came up with a solution to overcome the stasis of the market. Our president of the grocery store and dealerships, Shinasi Gökpe, has requested a summer school opening at Nüğde University. We want this request evaluated. This method will at least contribute to the tradesman's work, which will give his fine tradesman some comfort. In addition, 30,000 lira loans, issued to merchants across the country with a bag of legislation, are given to a limited person, and the application of lots has been brought in. Hence, the tradesmen are very victimized. The people of Niğde also demand that the victims of both our manufacturer and our tradesman be taken into account the extenuating measures. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0020par0094	Thank you. Mr. Saribal...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0021par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the founding anniversary of the village institutes that opened up seventy-six years ago. Today we seem to understand once again how important the modern, secular, democratic, social law state is when it comes to it. Dear President, there has been a representational statue of Adam and Eve, who have been describing existence and love for five years. This statue, which has been standing in the same place for five years, is not perceived as an attack on the values of faith, while the AK PARTI Lotus District Chairman Jalil Çolak Of course, the efforts of the mindset, which is protected by political anxiety, by branding a representational statue of love and existence, are not the result of religious anxiety. However, at the Ensar Foundation and very recently at two schools in Burma, one is a math teacher and the other is a religious teacher...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0022par0101	Thank you. Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0023par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. In a region covering the Divric, Zara and Imranlı districts of Sivas, there are rumors that a camp will be set up for immigrants from Syria, and that rumors are very serious in the form of gossip or speculation, which make the region's people very nervous and uneasy. In this regard, I would like for the Minister and the authorities to get up immediately and make a statement that there is no such plan and to address the unrest of the region's people, and to pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0024par0107	Thank you. Mr. Kara...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0025par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Tourism workers get a seasonly job and work for six months, take six months off for free. In the current crisis in Antalya, which concerns tourism, apply to tourism workers. WHEN they apply to İSKUR, they lose all their rights or face unemployment. We ask our Minister to correct this matter.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0024par0112	Mr. Bay...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0026par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Despite the court's decision to put a stop to the İzmir Karaburun Peninsula, natural and tree massacres are still under way for the transport and assembly of the RESESTs. I condemn and stop these attempts to undermine the ecological balance of nature, which ignores the judgment. We're waiting for the Department of Affairs to reassess this issue with a plan. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0027par0117	Thank you. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0028par0120	Mr. President, the caretta capettas are one of the largest ecological riches in the city of Mersin and all of the Mediterranean, but the shores of our country are unfortunately filled with the corpses of these natural wonder creatures. The Caretta carettas die by hanging on to the nets of fishermen. Also, they continue to disappear because they think they're eating plastic bags and so on in our seas that go back to the dump because they feed on jellyfish. Because of dense pollution and fishermen's love of crying and hunting, the descendants of these creatures that are useful to nature are almost extinct. By solving environmental problems that leave no life for them, in order to ensure that the ecological order doesn't break down, do our authorities intend to do any work to ensure that these creatures don't disappear? Volunteers' work isn't enough. In 2015, they collected 20 tons of garbage from the sea.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0027par0123	Thank you, Mr. Pineak. Your Honor...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0029par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Today (April 20, April 20, 1924) is the 92nd year of the Act of the Organizational Act. As it is known, the Constitutions 1921 and 1924 were adopted in the environments of war. The Constitution of 1961 and the Constitution of 1982 are a constitution of coups. To this day, a civil constitution has not, unfortunately, been established. For the first time in our history of the House, it says that it would be incumbent on this Parliament to make a civil, democratic, participatory, inclusive, modern, unconcerned constitution, all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0027par0128	Thank you. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0030par0131	Mr. President, I have a question for the Minister of National Education: Some elementary schools in the center of Denizli are being trained based on double-edition training. This is why the expected outcome of education cannot be achieved. Will the construction of new elementary schools begin at Denizli? How many schools across the sea teach like this? Again, there is a great need for vocational and technical schools in our country for the training of qualified interim workers and the closure of employment deficits. According to this, will you be working to open new vocational and technical schools for Denizli? Do you plan to open a school for job-secured vocational training in the Organised Industry District in Denizli? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0031par0134	Thank you. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0032par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. Balıkesir became the transit area for Syrian refugees to Greece. One request from the government officials is that Balıkesir put the refugees' camps in tourist centers, and the arrival of tourists in that area affect the economy of that region in a very negative way. Therefore, the people of Balıkesir, Edremit, Bandırma, and Erdek demand that the refugee camps in the Aegean region be removed and moved to the proper places. The problems of refugees are very negative to the image of our Balıkesir, because the presence of dead children on the coast of Ayvalı has brought the people of the region to a rebellious point. We're calling on government officials: Why don't you stop these refugees from coming here, just like that? Syrian policy...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0031par0140	Thank you, Mr. Havut. I'll give you my word if there are members of the group who demand word. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0033par0144	Thank you. Mr. President, the precious lawmakers have been celebrated on Wednesday (April 13th) in Mesopotamia for thousands of years, and unfortunately, Wednesday's Wednesday's Wednesday (April 13th) is not a holiday for which the war and massacres have taken place. We would like to express our regret here that this holy feast of Ezidi's people was met in the shadow of massacres leading from Shengal to Cizre. However, at a time when wars rule, death and destruction are imposed on our people, we want to say that we once again celebrated the Wednesday Sorfa Sorfa, which brings peace, democracy and freedom to all Middle Eastern peoples, especially the people of Ezidi. Mr. President, the battle against peace and peace that the palace and the AKP have waged has now, unfortunately, endured their college thesis. The Role of Women in the Building of Peace: University thesis written with the Peace Experiences of Women in Four Different Cities, was rejected by university administrations because the word "peace" is mentioned in it. The reason for that was the recent Prime Minister's declaration of terrorism. These are terms of peace mothers, such as the construction of peace. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll get right on it, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0034par0149	I'll give you one more minute, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0033par0150	...which has been considered as "legal-looking illegal activities" in the Prime Minister's Office, and the shameful sense of oppression and censorship in all areas of social life has now unfortunately moved into the corridors of the streets of Academia, in the university ranks. We want to express that we don't accept that understanding. Those who fear peace may continue to fear it. Because I say, in a great struggle for peace, we will continue to fight for peace until we remove this war mentality from this land, until all our peoples in Asia Minor, Mesopotamia, have achieved a democratic future in peace. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0035par0153	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0036par0155	Mr. President, Tanju Özcan will speak on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0035par0156	Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0037par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to share with you a matter that is very upsetting to us. One of the old schools of Bolu is named after the mother of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our country and our republic: Zübeyde Hanım Women's vocational high school. A new school building was built by the TOBB, where the girls' vocational high school will be moved. However, although the Bolulus, their parents, their teachers, their students are very upset, even though the school is the only school that has the name Mrs. Zübeyde, it seems to me that there is only an application that means that the mother of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk will be wiped out by the Governorate of Bolu; the name of Zübeyde Hanım Sübeyde Hanım is being removed from the school; only then will it be assessed as the TOBB girl's vocational high school. We strongly deny it. We'd like the authorities to hear it through your intervention. Also, we would like to share the new building far from meeting the needs of a girls' vocational high school with government officials through you. We demand immediate warning of the Governor of Bolu on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0038par0161	Thank you. Mr. Akçay or Mr. Turan, you don't seem to have any demands.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0039par0163	Later.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0038par0164	Later, okay. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "In order to determine the measures that must be taken by investigating the working hours, seizures and the rights of family physicians," we respectfully present the need for Parliamental research, as required by Article 104 of our Constitution 98th, Turkey's Grand National Assembly. [[Ankara]] 2) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 3) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 7) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Mughle]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Osmaniye]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 19) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[Ankara]] The importance of family medicine in our country is increasing day by day. The reason for this importance is that the family physician offers health care to all members of the family, not only in situations where there is no disease or injury, but also in a state of complete social well-being. He also advises and guides families in health care issues, and most importantly, the first step is that when health care is not enough, he performs the necessary organisation to provide further health care for people. However, with new laws to come and go, his physician's importance is being reduced and his family's practice of medicine is derailed. The most important problem is that every day after the whole country becomes a family doctor, there are more and more chores on family medicine. Family physicians are forced to work under conditions they did not know or think about, in a different way than their job descriptions. Family physicians can go to mobile service and home care services and return late at night without keeping watch. Normal police work hours are at 1700 hours. It doesn't stop until 00. In many counties, family physicians are on watch at integrated hospitals, and that's way over the clock. Family physicians are asked to stand guard at a second institution, state hospitals, before the end of their term. On the day that he will stand guard in this practice, it is evident that the family physician will not be able to fill his shift and fulfill his responsibilities at his own institution. Family physicians who fail to fulfill their responsibilities are subject to negative performances and deductions from salaries and scores. These legal but illegal seizures are contrary to human rights, to the Law of Work. In these cases, where family physicians have carried out their duties more than enough, the definition of the task involves additional expectations, such as the absence of family physicians. In particular, family physicians try to conduct a union struggle to change this practice, to meet their rights at the institutions where they work on Saturday shifts. Therefore, an investigation has been launched into 22,000 family physicians in Turkey. According to the rules of the Family Medicine Applied Amendment, planning on the watch will not cause a setback in the practice of family medicine, and there will be no more than 30 hours a week, not more than eight hours a week, and no more than 16 hours at the weekend. According to this regulation, a watch limit has been set, but this does not mean that family physicians are not required to spend the night, day, holiday, every day and night at work. That's roughly a hundred and twenty hours a week of uninterrupted work performances. It is also not allowed to use a duty permit after seizures. It should also be discussed how efficient a family physician can be. In addition, in the government's six-month plan of action, family medicine will be processed from watch to building, and boutique hospitals will be established and 08 a.m. It's 20 p.m. from 00. It was mentioned that family medicine would become a 24 - hour service situation five to ten years later. For the reasons revealed above, a Parliamentary Research is required to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating the issues of family physicians related to their working hours, seizures and rights. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we would like to introduce our Constitution's 98th, Turkish National Assembly's 104th and 105th amendments to open a parliamentary investigation under the requirements of Articles 104 and 105, in order to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the issues created by Syrian asylum seekers in Turkey. [[Ankara]] 2) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 3) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 7) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Mughle]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Osmaniye]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 19) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[Ankara]] Foreign intervention on Turkey's neighbouring countries has resulted in internal turmoil in those countries which has become unmanageable, and state authority has been eliminated. With the state's authority lifted, civil war broke out in neighbouring countries and the safety of the people living in those countries has been eliminated. As a result, as of March 2011, our country has been exposed to an intense wave of migration and remains. Although there are millions of refugees entering our country and seeking asylum as a result of these migrations, there has been no study of the legal laws and institutional regulations of refugeeism in Turkey, nor has any vision been released. Due to the lack of improvement of these arrangements, many problems have arisen with increasing number of asylum seekers. About 5 million refugees have left Syria so far. Turkey currently hosts 2.2 million Syrian refugees. Border crossings from Syria continue as the registration process continues. The number of Syrian refugees unregistered is unknown. The 270,000 asylum seekers live in 25 temporary shelters in 10 districts. The rest are trying to live on their own terms in the province of 81, Turkey. The most serious problems with asylum seekers are not about those who remain in temporary shelters, but about urban asylum seekers who live at their own expense at 88 per cent. More than 53 per cent of the asylum seekers in our country are children under the age of 18 and more than 75 per cent are children and women in need of special protection. Meanwhile, the number of Syrian babies born in Turkey in about four and a half years is estimated to be around 150-200,000. The proportion of current young people can be schooled is in the 15 per cent. The problem with asylum seekers is due to the government's failure to develop a planned strategy since 2011. From 2011, government officials will not stay long for asylum seekers, and in a few months they will return to their homeland. The process of biometric identification has been brought to light since the increase of asylum seekers and the extended duration of their stay. Due to the lack of legal employment of the Syrians, the problem of "off the record" is increasing. At least 300,000 of Syrian asylum seekers are working as undocumented and illegals. It is also stated that close to all of the businesses established by the Syrians are off the books. Many of the refugees who come because of the wrong strategies again continue their lives begging in a way that is far from education. They also face many problems, such as sand, prostitution, loss, unemployment, rent, housing, education, and health. The Syrian civil war, which began in 2011 and continues, is becoming a swamp. Turkey's total number of immigrants from 1923 to today is only 2 million. Four and a half years later, as of December 2015, the total number of Syrians in Turkey is at least 2,200,000. Therefore, the issue of the Syrians in Turkey is now within the framework of "passionism" and is already beyond the threshold for dealing with "emergency management policies." The majority of 2.2 million Syrians should now be considered permanent in Turkey. The negative consequences of this five - year war are likely to increase. Currently, there are about 5 million refugees who have fled the war, while immigration experts predict that they will face more than 3 million asylum seekers. The rebuttal agreement signed between the EU and Turkey includes boosting refugee living standards in Turkey, implementing quota increases, and retaking asylum seekers who have transferred to a entity EU country through Turkey. But it is unclear which of the asylum seekers will be returned, who will pay 3 billion euros, when and how, and how much of the asylum seekers' needs will be met. According to reports, Turkey has spent nearly $8 billion on Syrian asylum seekers so far, and international organisations have contributed nearly $400m. For reasons revealed above, a parliamentary investigation is required to investigate the problems created by Syrian refugees as a result of their asylum in Turkey and determine the measures needed to be taken. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The FATIH Project, اcomputers and teaching technologies teachers, (also) we respectfully submit to the need for further research of the issues of the Parliament to be opened under Article 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution, in order for further study of the study of information technologies and software to be enforced and to be reworked in these matters and to produce solutions. [[Ankara]] 2) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 3) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 7) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Mughle]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Osmaniye]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 19) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[Ankara]] The FATHIH Project is described as a project launched in 17 cities in 2011-2012 and planned for all schools in 2013-2014, where the Ministry of National Education is trying to improve the use of technology in schools and adapt education to today's conditions. As part of the project, each class is scheduled to receive an interactive board and a tablet computer for all students in class 5-12. The target and general vision of the high-cost FATIH Project is not clear. At national and school level, this uncertainty appears to be a stressful situation. What should be done with the technology that comes to schools with the FATIH Project, and what is intended by this technology, is clearly expressed by authorities. The existence of technology in classrooms won't magically transform. When it is determined who will use what, when, and for what, only an effective transformation will be carried out. From the first time the project began, the completion date of the project has been permanently postponed, and it is still unclear when it will be completed. In order for technology to be used again consciously with the FATIH Project, and our country to be able to produce technology, IT technologies lessons must be mandatory at every level. In the PISA report, Turkey ranked 34th in the 44-nation assessment of problem-solving skills, with a score of about 50 points below the OECD average. In order to improve children's 21st century skills, IT is vital that IT lessons in our schools are mandatory at every level. In the PISA report, "It's not enough to fill schools with only technological equipment." It's called. Assuming that the children know everything about using technology, the MEB (MEB) has no idea how much the students know about technology. If they know technology, they need to be connected to social networks like Facebook, Twitter, they need to play Internet games, and they need to do their homework on it by doing it on the Internet. The only way to raise awareness of children and young people is by reading IT technologies. Why is it that information technology is not important to read when media reading class is being opened and it's important and public spotlights are being prepared? These two readers should be given computer and teaching technologies, which are experts in these matters by their teachers. In 1993, education and education technologies were appointed to schools under the name of the formattor teacher. These assignments are still under way, even though they have graduated from BETE departments since 2002. In recent years, the name of these assignments has been changed to the guidance counselor. A 100-hour course for a teacher from outside the field to be assigned as a BTR teacher for a monthly extra tuition fee is sufficient, but why is a BÖTE teacher who takes four years of lessons and grows up in 3.024 hours not received? T.C. The Ministry of Development Service Report on the Renewal of the Information Society Strategy noted that students in primary education had not been able to believe that they already had IT equipment, that students who were educated in the first and secondary schools were incapable of using IT and that teachers also needed to improve their ability to use IT, otherwise the FATIH Project would be difficult to achieve success. The educational responsibility of the project, which costs so much, should be given to IT teachers. The FATIH Project, for reasons revealed above, is required to open a parliamentary study to investigate the problems of computers and teaching technologies teachers and to investigate the problems and to make the course of information technologies and software mandatory and to rework the curriculum and to create solutions in these matters. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0040par0334	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0041par0335	Mr. President, we have a request for an explanation based on 60.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0038par0336	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0041par0337	Mr. President, they're going to make a statement on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0038par0338	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0042par0341	Mr. President, thank you. You've just made an application by promising each party's deputy leader after extracurricular conversations. In the meantime, you also promised the Deputy President of the Republican People's Party Group, and he handed over his rights to Mr. Tanju Özcan. Tanju Özcan also made a judgment here in Bolu, saying that the existing girls' vocational high school will be removed somehow. I'd like to share the information we've learned in the wake of our attempts with the High Council. Mrs. Zübeyde, the removal of the school's name of Girls' Professional High School is not an issue. The newly built girls' vocational high school, which is being built by TOBB, will operate elsewhere, in another region, under another name, but the Zübeyde Hanım Women's vocational High School, located in Akpınar neighborhood of Bolu. So we felt the need here to correct a misunderstanding or a miscommunication. One is east of Bolu, one is west of Bolu. You can appreciate that Bolu is a growing city, and different schools are needed in different places, with student capacity. Therefore, the removal of the name of Mrs. Zubeyde is not an issue. We, the AK PARTY, have always been sensitive to our nation's values, and from now on, we will continue to be sensitive. The name of Mrs. Zubeyde is the name of the honorable mothers of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the Bani of our republic. At this point, we wish him mercy again. Thank you for your promise.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0043par0345	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0044par0348	Mr. President, thank you. It happened in Manisa, and it continues to happen. The late President of our Chamber of Commerce insisted that Turkey's Association of Chambers Stock Exchanges wanted to make Manisa a science high school, but that the ruling party directed him to the imam-hatip high school, not the science high school. There was one science high school in Manisa. Protocol has been made to build a science high school with TOBB. The municipality of Muradiye has also allocated the land to build a Republican People's Party municipal science high school. Other municipalities then applied for imam-hater high school to make this allocation. The deceased died of pancreatic cancer. The building is finished, the second science high school in Manisa will be opened, cannot be opened. National Education stipulates that we move the current science high school into this building, where the science high school is located. The state is capable of doing so if it needs imam-gap in Manisa. Manisa was built to win a second science high school for him, and the memory and will of the esteemed President of the Chamber of Commerce, all of Manisa's lovers, is being done with the same power hand. Mr. MP Zübeyde says the name of Ms. Zübeyde is to be kept alive, but our Bolu MP says there is no name for Mrs. Zübeyde in the moving place. We're gonna follow up on this. In this regard, we also expect you to be equally sensitive about the destruction of the name of Ismet Inönu, the second President of the Republic of Turkey in the Inönu Stadium. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0045par0353	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0046par0354	Mr. President, he shouldn't be so comfortable. Slander it, claim it, and it's not right.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0044par0355	No one's going, no one's going, here, here.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0046par0356	We spoke of Bolu, and he speaks to us of Manisa. It's not right.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0047par0357	Okay, thank you. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting on Wednesday/4/2016, I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On March 2, 2016, the motion to open a parliamentary study on Wednesday/4/2016 (now) to be read in the General Assembly, where we have given 1253 points to the presidency of TBM, in order to investigate the reasons for the suicide attempts of İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem and his friends in our country." In favour of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, the first speaker will be İstanbul MP Mr. Arzu Erdem. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0048par0374	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge here today to share with you the basis for our motion to investigate suicide attempts and actions in our country to determine the necessary measures. Before I begin, I salute you. The foundation of all social phenomena is the effort to sustain one's life. One can do many acts of good and bad to sustain one's life. He does everything in his power to change the circumstances that are negative for him. But a person who commits suicide, leaving all these ways of fighting, has committed an act against his own life. What makes the suicide phenomenon different from any other phenomenon is not trying to sustain its own life. From here on out, suicide is the direct or indirect death of a sane individual. In order for a person to take his own life to be called suicide, one must first be sane. Self-inflicting is the most important cause of death in his youth, after traffic accidents. Suicide attempts are estimated to be at least three times the number of suicides completed. Besides, suicides between men are three times higher than girls. As you know, suicides in our country have been rapidly increasing in recent days. We face suicides almost every day. This makes suicide an important social problem. Dear lawmakers, suicides are a cry for help, and before suicide, individuals express it with their behavior and speech, and unfortunately today, the number of people receiving psychological treatment and taking drugs has increased, and continues to increase rapidly. The suicide attempt is interpreted as a desperate escape from the problems of the desperate. These problems can be caused by yourself and the environment. One sees that there is no way out, that he is tied up in the face of events, that he falls into despair, pessimism, and despair, that he lacks strength by coming and going. He feels crushed, cornered, unable to vent his anger, so he turns to himself. Attempting suicide is an act of self - punishment and revenge for those who have caused it to fall into this situation. At the same time, it can be accepted as an effort to make amends and collect attention. A person's reaction to the challenges he faces depends on the strength of one's endurance. A person who is incapable of coping with challenges ends his life when faced with a situation he believes he can't handle. The person who has lost confidence and effort often tries to understand what has happened to him and find a way out. Unfortunately, however, in the face of severe strains, one becomes irrational. A part of those who commit suicide appears to be suffering from a lot of mental illness, such as depression, schizophrenia, personality disorders. Of course, not all collapses result in suicide, but there is a certain level of collapse in each suicide. It's not enough to interpret a suicide attempt as a sign of a breakdown. As is known, suicides have many factors. And I'd like to talk a little bit about the other factors that caused the suicide. Suicide is a sudden act, but its preparation lasts a long time, and in our country, young suicides are at the forefront. New conflicts and situations that have arisen in adolescence add to the problems that have been going on since the young man was a child. Their relationship with the young man's environment is broken, lonely, unsupported. Usually, one last incident, a conflict, a blow, an analyzing life, destroys the young man's defenses and triggers his self-destruction. Perhaps the most important factors to focus on are early childhood withdrawals. The family plays an important role here. Breaking up with a parent, the death of a parent, and growing up without a mother and a father at an early age lead to depression and suicide. It becomes very difficult for an insecure child to cope with the stress he faces during his youth, feeling helpless and easily suicidal. I'd like to get into the statistics a little bit: 5 of the 30 children were left without a father because of death. One of the fathers and four of the mothers committed suicide. There are three suicides and a suicide attempt on the next of kin. There have been significant disagreements and disagreements among the 21 families. Most youths who attempt suicide suffer from behavioral disorder. Part of the youth is dominated by signs of pessimism, reluctance, sadness, loneliness. In families where violence is seen in the family, there are also cases of suicides in which parents are constantly fighting. Therefore, instead of linking suicide to a factor, it is necessary to address it with the mental health of society. Our country has recently suffered serious migrations, and the emigrants are suffering from depression. Again, as a result of recent rapes, our young girls commit suicide due to psychological trauma, which they can't handle. Suicide may be against human nature, but inhospitable social conditions are against human beings. It is not always possible for everyone to show the same resistance in the war against the inconsistencies. Statistics show that in a particular society, the annual sum of five decades of suicides remains almost identical. Therefore, the reasons for suicides should be sought in more societies than individuals. The life of an individual living in public is made up of his meaningful actions. The individual is in the society by its actions. This act of a sane person who commits suicide is the last and perhaps most important act of his life. In this regard, the method of suicide is of great importance. For example, by jumping out of the city's tallest building, we can determine that the people who took their lives in front of a crowd of spectators may have declared their anger toward the world and had hoped to draw everyone's attention to their insignificant existence for a moment. Dear lawmakers, suicides have been increasing in our country lately. We've said, "Well, I'd like to give you a few examples: Today, in Mersin, 31 - year - old Arslan, serving in the court's election office, shot himself in the head with a pistol due to his depression. Two days ago, the 23 - year - old boy committed suicide asking Facebook to be lawful. Again, in the same way, on April 17th -- three days ago -- 60-year-old Fortune Light committed suicide on his son's wedding day. In Istanbul, my constituency, about 20 days ago, our 18-year-old daughter hanged herself. Again, our 19 - year - old daughter jumped from the 5th floor. Again, two of our students from Izmir 9 September University Medical School have committed suicide in their homes three days apart. In Istanbul, our daughter, a college student, jumped from the 10th floor to avoid the real estate agent's rape. Again, at Istanbul Bilgi University at the same time, a 22-year-old boy jumped off the school terrace and committed suicide. On March 31st, in Gemlik district of Burma, a banker hung himself. On the same day in Esen, a Syrian national opened the manhole door and jumped into the sewer and committed suicide. On March 25, in Gaziantep, a high school boy who was arguing with his family hung himself with a rope. On March 23rd, a girl who was depressed about leaving her wife in the district of Şelşla in Sivas. She hanged herself by hanging herself. On March 21, another Syrian youth jumped in front of a train and committed suicide. We see that we can't finish by counting them. In the last three years, 99 of our employees have committed suicide for reasons such as Mobbing, debt clamps and unemployment. Unfortunately, in our country, 15 people committed suicide in 2013, 25 in 2014, and 59 in 2015. Of those who committed suicide, 49 were workers, and 23 were workers, and of those who were workers were workers, and of whom were workers, and of whom were merchants, and of whom were farmers. 13 unemployed brothers and sisters in similar circumstances have committed suicide, including unassigned teachers. Just a few days ago, you know, in Karaman, 12 construction workers committed suicide on the roof for eight months because they couldn't get their money. Dear lawmakers, yes, we have a duty to prevent suicide, and the goal of preventing suicide should be to expose the causes of suicide in suicides and mental illness, to develop and protect intervention techniques. It's our job to understand the causes of suicides and investigate risk factors, and it's our job to prevent suicides, of course, in this way. In the meantime, on these grounds, I would like to offer my regards to the Council's investigation into the reasons for the attempted suicides in our country, to determine the necessary measures.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0049par0420	Thank you, Your Grace. Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik is the first speaker of the National Movement Party's group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Originality.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0050par0424	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group to investigate the reasons for the nationalist Action Party's suicide attempts in our country and to determine the necessary measures. I salute your high council. In our country, it is a social phenomenon of social, political, cultural and economic processes that are defined as killing on purpose. According to this, the suicide phenomenon is involved in social problems. However, the problem that often arises from the individual is not only the problem of the individual, but also the family and social environment of the individual. Environmental pressures in the event of suicides are known to be significant. So social, economic, cultural elements are fundamental variables that affect suicides. Sociologists attribute suicide to change of social life, irregularities in social relations, social depressions; anatomical state, rapid urbanization and alienation. While there is no clear information as to whether suicide cases are related to development, this issue is one of the problems of all developed-development countries. Therefore, the issue is on the agenda of both developed countries and international organisations. According to the report of Health 2015, more than 90 per cent of suicide suicides stem from psychiatric disorders such as depression, schizophrenia, while the social and economic problems such as low income, alcohol and drug addiction, unemployment can lead to suicide, according to the report. In addition, moral and spiritual values are weakened, identity crisis, among other important reasons for suicide. The crude suicide rate, which refers to the number of suicides per 100,000 people, takes place at 19 per 100,000 in OECD countries in 2015, while Turkey is first in 3.97 per 100,000 at the lowest rate. According to the previous year, 0.3 points have been reduced. At the highest rate of suicide, South Korea ranked first in 44,000, followed by countries such as Hungary, Japan and Slovenia. Unsatisfactory and troubled family relationships can lay the groundwork for suicides. The effects of cultural and social change reflected in the family structure and relationships are more evident on women. The decline in traditional religious beliefs and values and the resolving of religious life are largely involved in people's suicides. Suicide and suicide attempts are more common in people who are financially dependent. Suicide or suicide attempts are more common in rural areas or in areas that tend to urbanize quickly. Recently, the phenomenon of migration from village to city for different reasons has also had an impact on suicide resulting in death. With the physical disintegration of the social structure that immigrants had previously lived in, they faced a phenomenon of dissolution in the tribal and tribal structure that they described, on the one hand, dissolution in the social structure, and on the other hand, significant distrust has caused a significant turmoil in the feelings of belonging to immigrants. Now, dear friends, as of January 14th, a parliamentary research commission has been established in our Parliament as a result of the research motion given by our four political party groups to investigate negative elements affecting family integrity and the measures needed to be taken to strengthen the family institution; it has completed its three-month work, and it has received additional time from our Parliament. Our research commission, which began on January 14th, held about 18 meetings in parliament, in the research commission hall. In our country, we visited our different provinces, one and two and sometimes three provinces from each region, where suicides were involved in investigating negative factors that damaged our family's integrity, and at this point, from law enforcement forces, we received all the knowledge of the annual developments, the annual progress of suicides. Thus, these suicide attempts that have negatively affected the family integrity and the strengthening of the family's institution will surely be included in the report of our research commission after this work, which will be concluded as of May 14th, and we will have emphasises on different issues related to suicides in this commission report. For example, some of these include: Persuasion expertise should be valued. A special study must be carried out to treat the trauma of the suicide victim's family. There are professions that are a risk group; they should be looked after for psychological support and education. According to the highest number of people who are married to suicides -- acting on TİK data -- there should be a variety of seminars, such as domestic communication, self-improvement, as part of marriage schools. In addition, society, especially family members, must provide life - power and a healthy environment for individuals by making them feel that they are there for them when they are faced with situations that are difficult to overcome. Suicide prevention must be set up. Specialist psychiatrists, psychologists, sociologists, biometrisians and nurses should be included in this centre's staff. The primary goal is to save lives. You have to do this psychiatric, psychological, and sociological work and then treat those who are suffering from a suicide crisis. The second goal is to show that such a centre can play a role in the health of a metropolitan society and thus provide the support of society in the end. Experts and interested ones from various sciences and geographical areas must be taught and trained in preventing suicides. In this framework, our research commission, which we briefly referred to as the establishment of family integrity, will submit these to our report in detail and propose solutions to its measures. Therefore, I would like to inform you that we are against this motion to investigate, and I would like to salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0051par0438	Thank you, Your Grace. In favour of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, the final speaker will be Mr. Haydar Akar, the MP of Alexei. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0052par0442	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're talking about suicide. In recent years, the world's suicide phenomenon has been described by the World Health Organization as an emergency, a problem that needs considerable attention. Now, from the looks of it, in Turkey lately, in recent years, suicide cases have been increasing. Speaking against this research motion, the ruling party MP says there is no need to investigate. But, given the statistics that I'm about to give you, it's really being investigated... or another research group that thinks it can be done by getting into a completed research group, but we all see that it's not. Friends, according to the 17th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, everyone has the right to live, once guaranteed the right to live with the Constitution. So, what does the Constitution's 56th article say? It is clear and clear that there is a change in body health, mental health in society, and when we see that suicides are increasing, we can easily determine that. Now, about that, I submitted a motion to investigate a parliamentary investigation two months ago, and the reason I gave it was to investigate the suicides in my own city, in my own city. Indeed, just now, the orator who brought in this motion for research gave these explanations by giving an example of the friend Ezekiel. Yes, there are some serious suicides in the family, and I'm going to say that in proportional terms. About a million people die every year from suicide. That means there's been one death every 40 seconds. I mean, one person in the world kills himself every 40 seconds. Suicide is considered the second major cause of death among young people. The situation in our country is increasing and the suicides continue to increase. According to TÜİK data, 2,677 people committed suicide in 2011, 3,189 people were identified as 3,065 people in 2013. When we look at the figures of 2014, 47.7% of our dead, suicidal citizens are married, married citizens are committing suicide. In our married citizens, the reasons why the cause of suicide is so high must be identified once. You know, when you set up a commission for divorce, it completes its work, and it's called suicide. We're not just talking about divorce, we're talking about divorces, we're talking about married people. What's going on inside the Turkish family that so many of our married citizens are committing suicide? That's a very important question. Again, according to 2014 data, 74 per cent of suicides are men and 25 per cent women. Is it possible that the suicide rate in our married citizens is high, that the suicide rate in men is high, that there's a cause-effectal relationship with the economic fetus and the stress you've brought the country into? That's something to think about. Again, according to TÜİK data, 53 percent of these suicides are unknown, which is strange. So our citizens commit suicide, the right to live on the 17th and 56th amendments of the Constitution, but the state doesn't know the reasons for these suicides! Now, I'm going to give you an example of my constituency district, the one I gave this research proposal for, as of the beginning. Again, according to TÜİK data, 39 people were killed in Kopeli in 2010, 43 in 2011, 55 in 2012, 58 in 2013 and 54 in 2014. In the 24th term, I said that I had given the Parliament a motion to investigate in 2014, and I said that it should be thoroughly investigated, but unfortunately, it was not on the agenda. Since then, we have been watching together that suicides throughout the country continue to increase, not just in Ableeli. And in this period in March, I thought we'd re-examine and investigate with a motion to investigate. Until March 24, 2016, when I gave the motion, in just three months, from March 24, 2016 to today, 13 of our citizens committed suicide in three months. When you look at the age range of these suicides, you see our young people in the prime of their lives. The fact that they're 18 to 26 years old shows that we need to put our hat in front of us and rethink it. Look, yesterday again, in Alexei, a 23 - year - old boy hanged himself and left a note on his social networking site. In his note, he says: "Yes, the time has come, my friends. This is my last share. Those who don't love me, those who don't love me, those who I've hurt, those who I've broken against my will, now I want all of them to be lawful. Give me your blessing. My mother, my father, my brother, my uncles, my cousins, my friends, my darlings, my beloved, all of you be in the name of God. The merry Yilmaz you know is gone, taking a long journey and never coming back. I love you all very, very much. Forgive me. This is our 23-year-old brother. Yes, we have to know the reasons why this young brother, who is described as Yilmaz....has given up so much hope in life, my friend. Yeah, not just this young man, but six suicides in the last 15 days. A 37-year-old mother with a 9-year-old daughter commits suicide and her daughter bears witness. What causes this mother to commit suicide? If there were, there would be 26 million people in our country using antidepressants, friends, and one out of four people could suffer from depression and commit suicide. So it's not psychological, it's from here. Now, when we look at employees, when we look at labor suicides, in 2013, there were 15 people, 25 people in 2014, 59 people in 2015, 99 jobs-related deaths. The suicides of workers who have committed suicide in the past three years are as follows: 31 people are not known because of their debts, and also because of 14 workers, Mobbing, 35 workers have committed suicide. Yes, it's clear from these figures that you're going to increase suicides with the slavery laws you've enslaved at work, the laws you're going to bring back. When it comes to debts: you know, we've made the famous price $1,300, we're saving lives, you can now have three children. You know, when you can't train your children after a while, when you can't send that child to law school, when the pharmacist can't, when he can't send them to medical school -- when he says he can't buy them -- when our young people can't buy them ships, they start to commit suicide after a while, our workers start to borrow and commit suicide. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So for psychological reasons, I think it's safe to say that the increase in suicides in recent years is not a mental problem, but the consequences of the economic depression that AKP has created in Turkey. When we look at education, we see that 25 percent of these friends have an elementary school degree, 19 percent have a high school and equal school degree, and the reader rate is 10.6%. When we look at the list of cities that have been most suicided, Tunceli comes in first place. There must be no suicide in Tucson! Of course, you can think of it as the area where our citizens, who have developed economically, have no problems. Bingöl's right after him, Edirne's right after him, Sinop's right behind him, and Kırşehir is right behind him. When you look at these cities, you can see that all of them are at the top of Turkey's unemployment rate. When you look at these cities, I won't be able to give people their livelihoods... because I don't have time for those age groups. That's one of the reasons why suicide rates are the highest in 15- to 29-year-old groups. He wants to get married, he wants to settle down, he wants to train his children, but we see that it is impossible to do so with the conditions you created, the people you enslaved. I'd like to give you an example from the teachers. 13 of our teachers, the unappointed teachers, committed suicide. But what did the Minister say? They're committing suicide to do a show. I say such an approach is more than enough to ruin the mental health of the person in Turkey. This motion says that this congressional investigation must be supported, and I give you all my love.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0053par0464	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Emine Yavuz will be the last speaker against the National Movement Party Group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0054par0468	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group against the Council's motion to investigate the reasons for the nationalist Action Party's suicide attempts in our country and determine the necessary measures. I think there's a lot of social, personal reasons for suicides. I also think it's not right to reduce suicides to economic reasons, because there are a lot of people who live in financial distress and certainly don't commit suicide, but there are people who are very well-off, whose economic conditions are well-adjusted, but who are still suicidal, who may also be looking for meaning in life. These reasons are quite large, and I think it's not right to reduce them to one reason. Again, our parliamentary research commission, which I'm a member of, has been established, you know, in order to investigate the negative elements of family integrity and divorce, to determine the measures necessary to strengthen the family institution. We've done some really detailed research on this commission. On this commission, we called NGOs and listened to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, and many other ministries and ISKUR. Our institutions also presented reports and data on suicides. Our commission is already preparing the report, and as a result of this report, we'll have data on them. There has been a thorough examination of this. In particular, we've been to cities in Turkey. Our commission has also worked abroad. Serious data has been obtained. Again, as I just said, I also think that media roles are important in suicides. Suicides, unfortunately, are not limited to victims and relatives, but also influence a large environment. In this, the use and influence of mass communication tools today have a large share -- such as press, television, telephone, Internet, and websites -- that have a great deal of influence. In the suicide report, it must be one of the main strategies for the public to be informed correctly, to work together with institutions and organisations that have the means of mass communication in the creation of the necessary rules and criteria, and to avoid suicides. It is also important that material such as the film, video, and suicide scenes are not accessible. Also, I really think it would be important for family integrity to be strong, to reduce suicide events because when people are in trouble, if they can't find anyone to share it with -- a friend, a friend -- and whatever mistakes they have in the family, whatever crime they've committed, if they don't get support behind them -- unfortunately, they're also playing the role of the media, but if there's a strong family structure, if there's a strong family structure, there's a strong communication within the family, and we're thinking that if there's a strong one, a wife, brother, whatever mistake, no matter what they've done, no matter what they've done, no matter what they've done, no matter what they've done, whatever they've done to support behind them, there's a family member of this family, we're thinking that if they're going to help them, and that there're going to get involved in this situation, we're going to help them. I salute the General Assembly with these thoughts, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0055par0475	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0056par0476	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0055par0477	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0056par0478	In his speech, the speaker referred to the speech of our speaker, Mr. Arzu Erdem. He stated that this matter cannot be explained for economic reasons only, as if Mr. Erdem had only attributed these suicides to economic reasons.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0057par0479	He didn't mean that, Erkan Bey, he meant Haydar Bey.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0056par0480	Therefore, because of the taunt, he has the right to an answer.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0058par0481	In particular, he did not make any criticism against Mr. Erdem. In the same accusation, Mr. Akar made the same criticism, meaning it's economic. He claimed that the cause of the suicides was economic. I believe he made a general statement. Let's ask him. If such a target exists, of course.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0056par0482	Mr. President, of course you can ask, there's a speech on the stand, there's a statement, there's talk. I mean, what difference does it make?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0059par0483	I didn't mean individuals, but in general, it can't be reduced to economic reasons. So it's nothing personal.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0058par0484	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0056par0485	No, sir, now, it's as if the speakers or speakers who were before him had just made it look like they had reduced the incident to economic reasons, that's how we understood it. We consider this a taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0058par0486	Of course, if that's what you understand, it may be a taunt, but I've heard all the speakers very well. Indeed, the speaker did not say by targeting a specific person or a specific speech text or style, not only that, but also these reasons. He explained his own opinion, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0056par0487	Sir, Mr. President, it's two or three minutes before we explain this.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0058par0488	Here you go, Mr. Erdem. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0060par0492	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, the orator who just spoke of the AKP Group, said it is not right to link suicides to economic reasons only. In all of my speech, I've referred to economic reasons and psychological reasons and social depression, and to those who can't be appointed and to those who are unemployed. We know that suicides are not directly related to economic causes. I want to give you the example of Norway here, Norway is one of the most prosperous countries in this sense, and suicides are one of the most common countries in the world. We've just said, "Well, who is the author of the series that we're watching in the media today, which is being published in the period of who, unfortunately, is not our country watching the marriage program for 24 hours?" And I'd like to ask you this, too. We've just done this in our work on gun control in preventing or reducing suicides. We've been told that this is important. But here, we have to figure out why these people committed suicide by measuring weapons control, drug distribution, alcohol use, statistically measurement of them in their attempts to prevent or reduce suicides. It is necessary not only to cooperate with mental health professionals, but also to cooperate with police or teachers who form a group of risk groups for suicides. I'd like to talk about the 32nth verse of the House of Maiden, which whoever saves a life, it's as if he saved all people. This, my friends, is a matter of politics; it's not just a matter of the National Movement Party; it's not just about talking about the outcome today, let's all hold hands and prevent suicides, and every life we've earned will open the gates of heaven for us. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0061par0499	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0062par0503	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit01spe0061par0504	I'm going to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit02spe0061par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The resolution of the National Party for Action Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept the offer... those who refuse... There's a disagreement between the clerks, let's do it with the electronics. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0061par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The second vote of the National Movement Party Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept the proposal... those who refuse... the proposal is not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Wednesday/04/2016, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On April 20, 2016, Diyarbakır MP Idris Baluken ( rank 1792) recommended that the parliamentary research proposal given to the Grand National Assembly in order to develop solution proposals to these issues should be presented before other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly on Wednesday (20/04/2016). Congressmans, you may continue your conversation backstage, you may take your seats; we have started our studies and I will call the speaker to the stand, please... Ladies and gentlemen of the law... In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, the first speaker will be Diyarbakır MP Idris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0063par0018	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our group's research motion to investigate the problems of subcontractors. I salute you all. In fact, by bringing one of Turkey's most important problems to Parliament today, we intend to eliminate a major work-related issue in the future, along with an initiative by the Assembly to resolve the most important problem on the hot agenda. We hope that the ruling party will not act in the same way today, in the face of the enormous problems of subcontractors, only to this day, to deny the fact that they have brought in an audience, and will rise up with a voice of conscience and an urgency imposed by the real police and support this motion. Of course, over the course of 14 years, we have repeatedly expressed how the neoliberal economic policies of AKP have exploited labour, how workers, workers, and workers have taken their rights one by one, and how they favour capital. Unfortunately, despite all these warnings, these anti-profit and pro-profit policies that you've implemented continue to bring great harm to working workers today. In working life, you continue to keep the legal arrangements that you set up through flexible and unsecured work, ununion, disbanding organised structures, and threatening employees through the unemployed army, unfortunately, on your agenda. For this reason, both the unemployment army in Turkey is growing and the working, the workers are becoming poorer, while the runt-owning, capital-owning populations continue to become richer. Look, the scissors between the poorest part of your 14-year period of power and the richest part, unfortunately, have been opened every day, exploiting 99% of the poor people who receive the lion's share of national income. As a result of these practices, the proportion of the population living below the poverty line in Turkey has risen from 50 per cent to 85 per cent over 14 years, but the number of millionaires in bank accounts, bank deposits, has increased by twice as much during your time in power. Even this approach itself reveals clearly what your policies on income distribution, injustice, and labour-field working life have prioritized. Again, your attitude towards ununion and non-organization is clear. We think that if we say that the right to a collective contract, based on just one number, was reduced from 10.6 per cent to 4.5 per cent in 2002 and 2015, we'll probably be able to express the truth here somehow. Of course, the subject of subcontractors continues to stand in the way of our working people as a problem initiated by governments before you, but you have greatly increased them. Look, the number of subcontractors, which were 387,000 in 2002, is now over 1.5 million in the wrong policies you implemented during your administrations. So we're talking over 500 percent increase. Again, the number of staffed workers in the public sector in 2002 dropped to 190k as of 2014, and the number of subcontractors in the public field was up to 700,000. Now, you want to legitimize the subcontractor system by the state's hands, like these private employment offices you've been waiting for, and make Turkey a completely cheap labour market. In terms of cheap labor, you are signing under an application that aims to Chineseize Turkey. Look, you're going to see all of these problems, which you've already announced to 78 million that you're going to eliminate these problems both in your election programme, in your promise of elections, and in the statements made by the Prime Minister after the election. I read exactly what Prime Minister Davutoglu said on March 22nd: I would like to share a good news of our brothers and sisters with our Tabheron workers. In our election promises, we said we'd take the employees to public in the main jobs. The studies... we're putting our staff in the public eye for the greater good. Although not among our promises, we have made another decision based on justice and equality. For our brothers and sisters who are working in aiding jobs, we have agreed to take public as a government. Prime Minister Davutoglu expressed in a group speech on 22 March 2016, where all subcontractors will be recruited, whether it's business as a job or business as a job as a real job. However, on March 23rd, the Minister of Finance, who was in the same cabinet, announced that we will bring special contracting personnel status to subcontractors with a new status. The contracts will be renewed every three years. The subcontractors working for the city will not be covered. After November 1, 2015, employees of this status will be exempted. On November 1, 2015, we will also look for the condition that he completed 12 months. According to the social security system, we will exempt those who have reached the age of retirement, and in the end, the most important criteria will be the test requirement. He created a sentence such as the Prime Minister in a way that would completely nullify him. So, you'll just have to change the name of the subcontractor system, the subcontractor system. In the end, you will conduct all these rights by calling them private contractors, taking away the current rights of subcontractors, and applying the existing contractors to an interview in the form of those who are and aren't from the AKP through a test system. In numerical terms: 720,000 subcontractors will all be recruited, according to the Prime Minister's statement, but only 150,000 out of 720,000 will meet that criteria. Among those 150,000 workers, a recent test will be made between those who are AKP and those who are not, and you will be breaking your commitments to subcontractors in this way, unfortunately. That's a very wrong approach. Look, in this private contracted personnel status that you've brought in, there will already be a lot of rights that are in the hands of the workers. So, from severance pay, here, until your work permit, until you're allowed to work, again, with these private employment offices, with the laws you've brought in, you'll already get a lot of rights from the employee, the contractor, to the right to retirement. Now, we say that the Finance Minister or those arrangements you want to make are wrong, and we think that the AKP Group should stand behind those statements that Prime Minister Davutoglu made. Perhaps, you may not have enough information about this, but you may not have discussed the problems of subcontractors. So, especially with a commission of four political parties in parliament, we would like to investigate all of these problems, your election promises, along with the statements made by the Prime Minister, to report them and present them to General Kurula and Turkey. I'm sure no AKP MP who listens to his conscience would object to our proposal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, what I'm trying to sum up is that I'd like you all to take this motion to break down by heart, especially on behalf of subcontractors, and I'd like to extend my regards to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0064par0034	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Peoples' Democratic Party will be the first to speak against the group's proposal, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı, the Konya MP. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0065par0038	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the motion to open the HDP Group for parliamentary research to investigate the problems of subcontractors in all dimensions and to develop solutions to these problems. On this occasion, I salute you all. In our country, unemployment has increased during the AKP period and has become a chronic problem. According to the latest labour market statistics released by TÜİK in January 2016, unemployment is 11.3 per cent; unemployment without agriculture is 13 per cent; unemployment in the young population is 19.2%. The official number of unemployed is 3,290,000, and the number of unemployed people who are not looking for a job is 2,655,000, and the total number of unemployed is 5,845,000. Instead of implementing policies aimed at preventing unemployment, the AKP has established an exploitation scheme by turning unemployment into opportunity. Many public services today have been conducted by contractors, 4/CL, proxy, temporary, honorary, partial-time, subcontractor and staffed at TYP employee status. In fact, the practice, which should be exceptional for the sake of temporary work, has preceded the actual form of employment. The most obvious victim of these wrong practices, which the AKP has carried out in order to provide political moisture, are our unemployed young people, who are non-compulsive and unable to find employment in these ways. These are our millions of young people who have not been appointed to win the central exam, who have never been in line, and whose staff has been filled in other ways before their turn has come. See, we have a total of 3.5 million young people who took the last test on KPSS in 2014, with a degree in licensing, pre-license and secondary education. This year's test shows that the number will be based on 5 million. In contrast, the staff opened and appointed -- except for professions such as teachers, judges, doctors -- does not exceed 20,000. So not a thousandth of a thousandth of the young people who have passed the KPSS exam are allowed. For many years, these young people have been waiting for positions filled by the AKP in exceptional ways and partisans. The AKP government, millions of victims of KPSS waiting to be appointed, have eaten and continue to eat the rights of our youth. You should know that our young men who wait for the opening of staff to become officers and to be appointed will not give you their rights. Today, the number of subcontractors working in public is expressed by official mouths, over 700,000. During the AKP period, subcontractor work has become widespread, and there are no public areas left. The AKP implemented subcontractorisation as the basis of its policy and has also provided political humidity. All workers taken from subcontractors are employed by AKP politicians with references, and the purchases are still under way. Some subcontractors are also being used and thrown out, and they are being terminated according to the pleasure of AKP executives. The wages of subcontractors are not given regularly, they are given rights. Even reports of subcontractors, which are paid late, which must be paid in accordance with the contract, such as food, travel fees, were not paid at all or were not paid at all. The AKP government openly condoned this exploitation. The AKP has been living off subcontractors for years with its supporters. The subcontractors have made his voice muted, his hands tied, acting on command. In our country, the spirit of persecution and rebellion has been suppressed, the sense of rights has been dulled, the fear of death has allowed malaria. It is unfortunately named after the disorganisation of society and the lack of response to the wrong policies of AKP governments, unfair and segregating practices, as a result of the creation of an empire of fear. The problems of subcontractors must now be resolved. This system of slavery, this system of exploitation, must be put to rest. Dear lawmakers, despite the word that subcontractors will be given a staff during the election period, there will be an arrangement for the public employment of those who work at the bottom of the government's Action Plan (L.A.P.) under the scope of the subsidiary. The coverage has been narrowed. Nothing's ever been done. Only those who won lawsuits from road contractors and their cases were given pre-election positions, but even here they were unfairly over 40 years old, and those who sued were not taken, even reduced by the workers' judicial decrees. In 2014, the Law No. 6552 ruled that subcontractors could not be employed in other tasks other than the services they were assigned to, but the application was postponed until June 2016. The AKP government has not even been able to determine which services of the state are the main work, which is the assisting work. A month ago, the Prime Minister announced to subcontractors that he had been brought up and presented to the public by his fellow crew. So the subcontractors had a similar holiday cheer, but when the details were explained, the subcontractors were disappointed. The statement made by the prime minister and ministers said that all subcontractors would be taken into public as private contractors without the actual and co-employment, while those still working in the public before November 1st would benefit from this right, and those working in the municipalities and municipal private administrations would be employed by these local businesses. The AKP has thought of a devil here, as it does every time it does. According to the statement, subcontractors are not given staff, they are expected to receive public admissions as private contractors for three years. The subcontractors who will be subject to the examination will continue to receive their current fees. It is seen here that the AKP's best success is deception and deception. The AKP's mentality has a good sense of all kinds of evil. Although subcontractors have been doing the same work in the same places and services for years, they will work for very low wages, especially under contract, according to exemployees, and will not have their administrative, financial and social rights. The AKP's government is determined to maintain the subcontractor system, which they have described as "slavery." In addition, an immoral offer will be made, and subcontractors will be required to waive all rights to their past work. The subcontractors did not understand whether the AKP government would grant them rights or not. Hakka, is it true that discrimination and unjust practices that don't fit the law doesn't bother your conscience at all? See, the judiciary has decided that subcontractor practices are consistent, that they are public workers from the time the subcontractors are employed. Why don't you consider these decisions? The subcontractors, which are announced to be public, are already working in the public business, and according to judicial decisions, they are considered public workers, and are primarily awaiting public employment. All subcontractors must be recruited and not replaced by earned rights. That's what the law requires, that's what justice requires, that's what equality requires, that's what we believe, that's what humanity requires, if you think it means anything. The National Movement Party has been constantly on the agenda for years to bring the end of the subcontractor system and the deployment of subcontractors working in the public, and has committed to assigning staff to all subcontractors, and has offered several law proposals from the past. Our motions have always been rejected by the AKP Group. When the AKP government's draft bill comes to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the National Movement Party will fight to give all subcontractors a staff and not be stripped of their rights. He says thank you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0066par0050	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. The second and final speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party's group proposal will be İzmir MP Musa Çam. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0067par0054	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the proposal that the People's Democratic Party open a parliamentary investigation into the problems of subcontractors. I salute the High Council and all of you. An important issue is that we discuss and discuss an important issue that concerns the future of about 20 million employees in Turkey, their families, their children. Indeed, we are experiencing a process in Turkey, with Neoliberal policies in Turkey and around the world, with globalization, with new world order, where workers, workers, workers, workers, and workers are working almost to the full. Both in Turkey and in our country, especially in the last 30 years, along with Neoliberal policies following the January 24th Decisions, workers, workers, laborers are under very difficult conditions, under very difficult conditions, and they are practically employed for food. And they're running so hard that you're working in a subcontractor where there's so many unemployed people out there, you're getting paid this much, you're getting $1,300 minimum wage, and it's very likely to lose that. So for this $1,300 minimum wage I've given you, you'll have to put up with this unsecured form. If not, there are thousands of unemployed people standing outside the door, and you may lose your job. Sadly, they are putting workers and workers in such distress by threat, by threat. We had this conversation here recently. In 1980, our country had a population of 40 million, with about 2.5 million union workers making a collective contract. Today, the country has a population of 78-80 million people, populations increased, employees increased, but there are about 700,000 workers who actually contract collectively. Well, why? In front of unionisation in Turkey, along with the Unions' Law and Mass Business Convention, Strike and Lokaft Laws, which brought the coup on September 12, 1980, there were a ton of bans and obstacles in front of the organisation, and let the workers work without organization, without unions, with food and hunger, friends... So many years have passed, many articles of the Constitution have been changed, but the obstacles and bans in front of union rights and freedoms have not been removed, unfortunately. The dams have been lowered, but still the bans and obstacles ahead of the free organization of workers continue. The international ILO contracts signed under the state of the Republic of Turkey, unfortunately, still cannot be implemented here. Prohibitions continue both for labor unions and for public employees. Thus, employers and capital and capitalism are sadly implementing this subcontractor system in our country to exploit workers more, work more, and pay less. The public is now saying that there are nearly 700,000 subcontractors, and with the private sector there is about 1.5 million, 2 million subcontractors. Especially because of the loss of 301 brothers in Soma, who worked in the mines, and the loss of dozens of people in Ermenek, Zonguldak, is the reason for the subcontractory system. Under Redevans and service contracts, those people who work under the ground, tens of feet below, unfortunately work unsecuredly and lose their lives underground, hundreds of feet under, to get their money, because they work without a union and subcontractors work with their money. This needs to stop, this needs to be investigated, and the House needs to be sensitive about it, people. If nothing is more important than human life, it must be investigated, my friends. But as the subcontractorization system takes its head off, we now face a new bill under the name of the branch office. Recently, he passed the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission and will come to Parliament in the coming days. He was supposed to come, but the AKP government probably postponed it until after May 1st, due to the upcoming May 1st. They want to put off a possible street movement, the workers' reaction before May 1st, and in order to intercept this fight, which will rise on May 1st, late May, even early June, and in early June, they also want to implement a system that will allow these employment offices -- the slave system -- to explore subcontract. Now, I'd like to share with you a few things about what these employment offices are, what they're not, what they're bringing. Today, there were markets that were left with names, and in the past were the most important commercial events in cities: the wheat market, the hay market, the wheat market, the horse market and the labor market, friends. The polling market, the horse market, the yogurt market, the hay market may be out of circulation right now, but the labor market is still in existence. Yesterday at the labor market, people were hired, and today people are being hired again. Minister of Labor, Mr. Noble, has also defended the rental worker bill in TRT, while still pointing to hiring workers in labor markets. He explained his efforts to employ hired workers through his thesis on recording the issue of unregistered work life. However, Mr. Secretary, the workers hired in today's labor markets have been disturbed by the term "renowned worker", I have heard of a rental car, a rental bicycle, but it is very wrong to describe a person as a rent worker. I'm trying to get the job description to come up with the essence of this issue, Mr. Secretary. However, as the Minister would recall, everything was called after him when his ability to cover up a bad arrangement with good, good, and positive concepts was not so developed as to cover up the negativity that was involved in that thing. For example, Majelle, who was in force during the time of the apocalypse of power -- our first Civil Law -- described the social relationship that existed without any resentment, with no name attached. In Article 421 of Mecklelle, he described the employee-employee relationship in the second kind of rental agreement, saying:: "Nev/i sani is an akkade which is the heir to the work, and in this it is described as keeping the workman's and the janitor's. And in modern-day Turkish, it says that the second type, the business, the service, is the lease. What is rented in this one is called a laborer, such as hiring workers and janitors. Mecklelle is clearly called a worker. Moreover, Mecklelle splits the worker in Article 422. The first part is a private worker, hired to work for a single tenant, like monthly workers. The second part is a common, independent worker, which has not been restricted to work except for the tenant. The hired worker, described by the bill, who exists off the record and is told to be admitted into the register, is a worker who has not been restricted to work except by the tenant whom Mecklelle, who, in his own name, has described to us. As the minister called it, the hired laborer has been enforced against the law for years, the Ministry of Labor, tasked with overseeing working life, has not been able to prevent or prevent this illegal procedure. Since he could not prevent an illegal procedure, legalizing and legalizing is not about protecting the worker, but about returning to the Mecklel era, a pure reflection of the liberal era. The hired worker is a clear statement of the return of the 19th century to the legal, legitimate terms of the free contract, unsecured, unorganized, helpless, insufferable workers, unsecured working conditions. In short, it's a system of slavery, and we all have to stand up to that. Dear friends, today is May 20th; 10 days later, Sunday is May 1st, the day of the working class's unity and struggle, friends. For 126 years in the world, the day of unity, struggle, solidarity of the working class has been celebrated and has been celebrated in our country for 114 years. Mr. President, you were either a senior or a paralegal at İstanbul Law School in 1977, perhaps in 1977 you were there as a May 1st celebration was celebrated, and today you are alive, but 34 people died there that day. Now, May 1st is ten days away, May 1st is celebrated all over the world, but all over the city's main centers, even in the squares of the presidential palaces. The taxi -- not as Taxi Square -- is the May 1st area, where people want to remember the people they lost in 1977, and remember their memories there, and hold their peace in their presence, but the area of May 1st is closed, Ankara Corps is closed. They sentence people to celebrate May 1st in the middle of nowhere, in the meadow, in the canal, here and there. It's not the right job. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May 1st, which has been celebrated in the world for a hundred and twenty-six years, is the day of the working class's unity, struggle, solidarity. I would like to invite you all to vote in favor of this proposal to set up a parliamentary research commission on May 1st. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0068par0066	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Pine, I was an intern, college was over.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0067par0068	I guessed right, didn't I, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0068par0069	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0069par0070	Intern revolutionary!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0068par0071	The last speaker against the People's Democratic Party's group proposal will be Şanlıurfa MP Mr. Mahmut Kozar. Here you go, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0070par0074	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the HDP group proposal. I hereby salute the High Council. The process of public employment for sub-employee sub-employees was undoubtedly one of the most public issues discussed. As an EC PARTY, we have a commitment in our pre-November 1st election pledge that subcontractors working for the real jobs will be employed in public. As the speakers have just said, there are around 720,000 subcontractors in the public community. About 160,000 of these 720,000 subcontractors are subcontractors who are in real work. Although we have a commitment to the main employer, which includes 160,000 employees in our pre-election contract as EC PARTI, the post-election assessments and studies, not only the 160,000 employees of the original employer, but the entire subcontractor, working at the subcontract, without a major or assistant distinction, our Prime Minister had an explanation at the group meeting. This was an approach to all subcontractors as we went further beyond our pre-election commitment. At the moment, the work of both the Finance Ministry and the relevant ministries is at the final stage. These studies will be concluded and will be presented to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in the coming days. In this regard, I would like to make it very clear to the public that our government is approaching the issue in great responsibility and that the steps taken in this matter will be improved both within our responsibility and within the framework of our commitment to our citizens. Our power has never been indifferent to the problems of subcontractors, and will continue to take measures that will not allow our employees to become exploited, as they did in the past. The most important of these measures, as you will all remember, is that we have made arrangements for subcontractors working in public with Law 6552, which we passed in 2014 in the Supreme Assembly. Dear friends, as you all know, subcontractor practices are not an app that began during the AK PARTY period. The subcontract practices began in 1936 in Turkey, in 1971, and in 2003 along with Business Law No. 1475, but until the AK PARTI power, there was no legal regulation on subcontractors' rights for either working conditions or pay policies. The legal arrangement issued by the EC PARTI rule in 2014 has been made, particularly concerning wages, annual sabbaticals, severance pay, membership in unions, and the right to a collective contract. As you all know, instead of paying the wages of subcontractors who worked until the legal regulations of 2014, they had to be paid hand-to-hand in some places, and as a result, they had to face exploitation and abuse of labor, but along with this legal arrangement, the public institution was obliged to deposit the fees directly into the bank account. Again, there was a significant loss of rights regarding the use of the annual permits of fellow workers, citing the change of subcontractors due to annual tenders. Even if the subcontractors changed with the legal arrangement again, it was arranged by this legal arrangement to use their annual sabbatical without any loss of rights for our employees who continue to work in the same workplace. Again, one of the most important problems our subcontractors face is that they can't benefit from severance. Although working at a workplace, public, hospital, or municipality for as long as 10 years, we were faced with practices by the sub-employee, which the sub-employee gave up the employee's rights at the end of each year and re-entered the employee's employment so that he could not be granted a year's severance pay. But with the legal provisions that we made in 2014, severance was forced to be paid directly to the employee's bank account by the relevant public institutions, and thus the problem of the workers' most important guarantee was that, along with the subcontractors, they could not receive the significant loss of rights compensation. Again, one of the most important rights brought to our subcontractors, along with the legal arrangement in 2014, is to be a member of the unions and a collective contract, and in this case hundreds of thousands of subcontractors are members of our union, and hundreds of collective contracts are currently under way.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0071par0082	No, when is he coming? People are worried about him.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0070par0083	Now, in this 2014 arrangement, following these arrangements for fees, permits, severance and collective agreements, the work of the Finance Ministry, which is now at the final stage, will come to the Parliament General Assembly as soon as possible.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0071par0084	When's the soonest time? If you'll explain. They call us every week.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0070par0085	I'd like to stress here that these arrangements will cover all subcontractors, that there is no actual employer or co-employee segregation, that they cover all 720,000 of them.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0071par0086	Give me a date.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0070par0087	Now, when we look at the research proposal text, there are some approaches, particularly about workers being crushed into inflation and the rates in the non-mall product are dropping.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0071par0088	Mr. Orator, say it's on this date and let our contractors hear it.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0070par0089	Let me put it this way: The minimum wage is the minimum wage that is now taking the wages of our subcontractors to the center.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0071par0090	When's the staff arrangement?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0070par0091	The minimum wage is 184 liras in December 2002, currently $1.301.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0072par0092	We didn't say that, we said when.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0070par0093	As of late December 2002, between April 2016 and April 2016, the increase in TÜFE is 211 per cent, the increase in minimum wage is 606 per cent.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0073par0094	Look, two people have called in the last ten minutes, and they're wondering. He wants to hear a date.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0070par0095	Again in 2002, when you look at the GDP rate of 6.26 per cent; 7.48 per cent in 2015; 7.89 per cent in 2016. I'd like to point out that there are real increases in minimum wage, pensions, public workers, and civil servants that are not underinflation.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0073par0096	Yeah, well, skip them, when's the setup?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0070par0097	Now, the question is when will the legal arrangement come? The first three months are complete in six months of commitments. In this next three month's time envelope, this arrangement will come to the Assembly General Assembly, which includes all subcontractors, especially from here...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0073par0098	No, what's he gonna bring, what's he gonna take? You've been singing for ten minutes. Just say it. No, people wonder what it's gonna bring, what it's gonna take.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0070par0099	Now, before the bill comes to the House, without the commissions, without the will of the House, it's going to be like this, it's not right to make a sentence like this.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0073par0100	So you'll bring the offer, we'll wait. Then we'll bring him in, you take him in.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0074par0101	Be patient, be patient.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0070par0102	...but as it has just been stated, it covers 160,000 people, leaving some of them out. I respectfully salute the High Assembly, where such approaches are not true, they include all subcontractors and 720,000 people are taken to the center of the public.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0073par0104	Dear Orator, you spoke for ten minutes, you didn't say anything.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0075par0105	Thank you, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0076par0106	Mr. President, before we vote, I demand a word from my position.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0075par0107	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0076par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we've submitted a motion to investigate a very important matter that we need to evaluate over politics. When we heard the speaker from the ruling party on this research proposal, we did not hear any grounds that could be justified in the rejection of this commission, which required a motion to investigate. So we've come to the impression that the ruling party should take initiative in a situation involving millions of subcontractors and their families. If that's the way the AKP Group deals with the issues of millions of our people... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll be right back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0077par0114	Please... one more minute.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0076par0115	...if they vote for this motion to form a commission, it will wake up to the opinion that the Assembly has taken the initiative of the work area and has not been insensitive to problems, not just the problems of subcontractors, but the transfer of senior compensation to the fund, especially to the dismissal of public workers. So, first of all, I'd like to call on the ruling party's MPs to vote as part of a mission, in line with the speaker's speech. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0078par0118	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0079par0121	Mr. President, thank you. The speaker who spoke on behalf of our group just said the same thing. The Justice and Development Party Group voted on the agenda under the psychological conditions of that day, but it was not possible to establish law in the future, after the Soma disaster in the 24th term. When you listen to the speaker speaking from the Justice and Development Party today, it seems that they will vote yes. If such a research commission were established, it would be thought that the government had such a commitment and would carry it out in about three months, including subcontractors, earned rights, future concerns, while receiving dozens of different phone calls from workers in different circles.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0078par0124	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0079par0125	What about our situation, what about our promise? We're not getting into that explained coverage. This is not really a staff. While there are criticisms, there are four parties, lawmakers from labor, union living, there are exactly three months, there are people in Turkey who are subcontractors, what are their expectations, what is the solution that won't hurt them, and what is a joint study on this issue, really is the issue over politics. If they vote "no" for this research proposal, the Justice and Development Party will have expressed its own oratorship, contradicting its rhetoric, and expressing its true intentions. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0078par0127	Thank you. I will submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Wednesday/04/2016 (now) there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 19/04/2016, a parliamentary research proposal issued to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (Jalova MP Muharrem İnce and his friends) in all aspects of the terrorist incidents in our country) was no. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations on Wednesday 20/04/2016, and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, the first speaker will be Yalova MP Muharrem İnce. Here you go, Mr. Slim. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Slim, we missed you, your speeches. I'm so sorry for your loss again. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0080par0147	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Turkey is a country that has had years of experience in fighting terrorism and terrorism. What is terror, what is war against terrorism, is a country that knows all about it. When the AKP came to power in 2002, the PKK was expelled from Syria, and the organisation's leader was in prison. The AKP's mission was to get the PKK expelled from Syria out of Iraq as well. PKK terrorism, ISIS terrorism, which we live in today, is not a terrorism that dates from 1980 to today. It's a terror that you personally feed and nurture in your 14 years of power, that you negotiate and breathe, a terror you condone. You didn't authorize the governors to operate. While the moats were being dug, while the machines were working, while the PKK was building courts in city halls, collecting taxes, planting bombs under the vents, you were silent, ignoring. We were deceived. You said, "We were deceived." You tried to get rid of the responsibility. A politician can't escape responsibility. Politicians have to be responsible. When it comes to showing off, we run a state, not a grocery store, but when it comes to responsibility, you run away. We will see good days. You said, "Don't let the mothers cry." You said, "You have put nationalism under your feet." You said, "The people on the mountain will come down, the prisons will be empty." You thought of raising Abdullah Ocalan's reputation. The process of solution has begun, the tears of the mothers have stopped. Now you're saying that we have martyrs. And ye gave her sherbet according to the city, and ye made the headlines according to the time, and ye took the fatwa according to the ban, and ye cast it out, and wiped it out. On November 10, 2009, you entered a road with the PKK. You have set up tent courts in Habur, and you have judged 34 people in 210 minutes, seven minutes each. When the judge asked, "Are you sorry? I am not sorry. I have come under the direction of leadership. He was sorry. You translated him. In Oslo, you filed a complaint against the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). You admitted that cities were filled with bombs, turned into arsenals. You made the first one in the world and sat at the table with an organization with a gun. When the PKK took the children to the mountain, you did not listen to the screaming mothers. At 220 in 2012, you watched 2,200 in 2013. You've followed an inconsistencies, unprincipled, unpredictable, unpredictability of the state's experience, subjective, high-priced, painful policy. You said we're going to solve it with a border slide. You said we'll solve it with the special coordinator. You said we'd solve it with instant intelligence sharing. You said we'd solve it with a professional army. In Bush's eyes, you saw the determination to fight terrorism. Then you went further, you said you'd solve this problem by increasing your gymnastics hours with a 12-channel TV to watch your team, allowing him to catch up with his friends. Seven of our soldiers were killed in Reshadiye, the PKK claimed responsibility for the incident, and you tried to exonerate the PKK and explained that Dursun Çekyçe would become a Reshadian. You've followed a policy that's wasted 35 years of struggle. You judged the soldiers fighting terrorism in the terrorist's testimony. You've questioned the order of our martyr child. You lynched the colonel who cried out for his pain. You've turned state defense into a process on trial with your policy of opening. It's one thing to expose unsolved murders, to identify human rights violations, to bring them to justice, to make 35 years of war against terrorism a blank. Even though you were a government who made a mistake in fighting terrorism, you tried to take Turkey hostage under the guise of counterterrorism. Yesterday you said, "Don't let the mothers cry." You're arresting those who say, "Don't let the children die today." Our young children, the mama's boy, are dying for the country, not for the presidential dream, not for 400 MPs. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You're either with us or you're with the terrorists. Look, I'm saying that we're not with terrorist organizations, but we're not with you, either.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0081par0163	You tell it to Godkulu, you tell it to Godkulu!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0080par0164	There's a third way. That third road is democracy, freedoms, the state of law, accountability, taking responsibility, defending the ideal of living together; it's knowing the Republic of Turkey, the state of all of us, the country of all of us; it's making this country a habitable country for everyone, it's defending universal values. If I go, the state will be destroyed. I say to those who say, "Let us not forget that the graveyards are full of those who think they are indispensable. Is the government built with you so it can fall apart when you're gone? Many brave rams have gone, and this state has not been destroyed. If an enemy thrusts his dagger into the heart of the city, remember his good fortune, the black master. [[Applause from CHP rows]] What haven't you already destroyed? You have destroyed the traditions of the state, destroyed its reputation, brought the legal system underfoot, made Turkey into a country that eats notes from Ecuador, sent your armored Mercedes to South America by plane, but you made our soldier who was injured in Çukurca take a bus to İnegol. You've always confused party politics with government policy. If there is a continuity of a problem, if the causes that produce the problem cannot be removed by instant intervention, such a problem can be solved by national policies. The solution to such a problem is not the headquarters of a party, but the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Big problems are solved with great compromise, great participation, common mind. This is not the way we find it; this is the way the world finds it. It is much more important to know the world than to build a palace for Guinea, to build a mosque for Cuba, to deal with who discovered America, to deal with Islamic countries in the manner of the building manager for the dues. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You talked about four terrorist organizations; you said "PKK"; you said "PYD"; you said "Ishid"; you said "Ishid." First, there was the Ergenekon terrorist group, and now you're saying, "Fethullah terrorist organization." You're building a PKK, an ETÖ connection; now you're setting up a PKK, a PKK connection. You're the one who raised and fed ISIS and PYD because of Syrian policy. You've turned Turkey's perception, which has been fighting terrorism for 35 years, which is paying the price, into a country that supports terrorism. When you say Friday prayer at the Emevi Mosque, you liken the capital of the republic to the capitals of the Middle East. You admitted that you were aiding and abetting, saying, "What did they want? ' I don't know about Dolmabahçe. You said, "I don't know about Dolmabahçe." But you made all the AKP people who posed there minister. You have 1,100 rooms, 8 planes, comfortable cars, but believe me, you have no place to sleep. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Turkey's democracy is troubled. It's a problem in this country to seek rights, to live freedoms is a problem, but when we attack police stations with bombs and slaughter our 20-year-old children who do their patriotic duty, those who remain silent, those who support us can't be left-wingers, they can't be anti-emperistists, they can't have a conscience, they can't be human. Our sorrows, our martyrs, are breaking our hearts. It's not right to set out with a sense of revenge, it's not the answer. Revenge won't put mortar in the dream of living together, the ideal of living together, there won't be a solution. If there's a gun, there's violence, there's a bombload, there's no solution. The solution is in mind, the solution is in common sense, the solution is in compromise, the solution is in respect of human life. The AKP can't solve this problem. Why can't he? Because the AKP's sense of history is troubled, the nation's understanding is troubled. The republic did not declare national festivals, Ataturk, but the national festivals were also in Ottomans. The Ottomans had the festival of training; the republic changed its history, and on May 19, Ataturk made Memorial, Youth and Sports Day. Ottomans had Isteli Osmani, 23 April in the republic. The Ottomans had the Day of Hurriyet with the Second Legislature, and the Republic has the Day of the Republic of October 29th. Those who make their own national days meaningless, devalue them, those who are not at peace with them can't fight terrorism because what you're making meaningless is our people's sense of patriotism. That's why you can't bring people together on the most important national issue. Terror has brought the Republic of Turkey to a crossroads. There must be national policies against this problem. You have to understand national sovereignty as everyone's sovereignty, not as party sovereignty. You have the majority today, but the deed is in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, the nation's own. I say those who take the people's will to the waiting room can't solve this important issue if they see a 90-year-old republic between ads. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0082par0179	Thank you, Mr. Slim. The first speaker against the Republican People's Party group proposal will be Mr. Mehmet Erdogan. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0083par0183	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to discuss the Republican People's Party's motion. First, of course, I thank and thank all our martyrs who have died for the unity of our country, who have given blood to this day, and to those who are currently lying in the GATA, especially those who are lying in it, I pray to God for immediate healing, and to all those who are already fighting for terror, and to our police, and to all those who have fought for their lives, and to our guard, and to all those who have served there, and to all those who have served there, God help us and help us. Now, of course, it's important to put the AKP government's work on terrorism on the table. After that, we need to talk about what needs to be done in phase two. Since the AKP came to power, it has always decided to act internally with terrorists as a road map for itself. First, inside the police, he destroyed special operations units with long years of experience in the fight against terrorism, the anti-terrorism units, and he handed over security to his parallel partners. So now the police have lost their memory of the fight against terrorism. After that, you joined the army with your parallel partners. You entered into the most private parts of the army on the charge of assassination of Bulent Arinc, and in the testimony of some of the terrorists you call a confidential witness, you judged those who fought terrorism in the army, and you corrupted the psychology of the police, of the gendarme, of the army. Of course, from now on, you've made it difficult to fight terrorism. While you were doing that, you greeted terrorists with ceremony in Habur, you sat at the table with them in Oslo, and when terror recovered and attacked our government, our nation, you put the dissolution process, the betrayal process, and in the meantime, you said, "Let's not touch these things, but we'll settle with them at the table." So the governor's will, which did not allow operations there, was the will of the AKP's power. There's, of course, two responsibilities there, one is the political responsibility of the government that gives illegal orders. Two, the responsibility of bureaucrats who carry out illegal orders, who never question them. In this regard, it will be very difficult for the AKP to deliver this account. Again, you're already implementing the government's current laws in the east and in the west, another one in the east. In the East, terrorists are able to walk free, but because of the slightest traffic violation in the West, those security forces are treating people differently, and they need to get rid of this double image. What you do in foreign policy is obvious; the point of Iraq is the point of origin in Syria. Gene, before Mr. President goes to the U.S.A., we see the PYD as a terrorist organization, and you make up your mind. Everyone shouts here, and all AKP speakers shout in this General Assembly. But when the President came back from the U.S.A., he was silent, and now he's done talking about America, and we're not going to break our relations with the U.S.A. for the P.D., either. We can't continue to fight terrorism with such zigzags in foreign policy. Inside and out, the will must stand firm against all terrorists. Again, right now our security forces are fighting day and night, but believe me, there's a big question mark on the back of their heads. In the 90s, there were no terrorists, no suspects, no, no, no, no, that's what he took into account. Is the AKP going to double-cross us tomorrow about our struggle today?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0084par0189	No worries, no worries.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0083par0190	There's concern, there's concern, there's concern!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0084par0191	They fight like lions, like lions.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0083par0192	I need a commitment to make it up to you. Don't beat around the bush, you'll tell me when you get on the stand.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0084par0193	Whose mill are you bringing water to?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0083par0194	We know the business, and we're in these people, and we see these people every day. Get over it, brother.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0085par0195	The truth hurts, the truth, okay?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0083par0196	Friends, Turkey has saved more than thirty years in the fight against terrorism. Turkey does not need to buy experience in fighting terrorism from Europe, from America, from here.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0086par0197	Congressmans, there's a speaker on the mic, please.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0083par0198	Turkey needs a concept that will realise its own experiences and return from the mistakes we've experienced so far, which will fight terrorism decisively. Mr. President has explained this very carefully in some other press statements during the group's talks. And I'd like to remind you, one by one, of the framework that Mr. President has drawn up, of the solution proposals. You know how you always say that the opposition is always critical, always talking, saying nothing. We say, friends, the fight against terrorism is not done only in Silopi. Wherever the terrorist is, it's done inside and out.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0087par0199	It's done everywhere, done everywhere.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0083par0200	About that... Stop beating around the bush, telling stories. We know how you fight terrorism.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0088par0202	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0083par0203	Tell those who don't know that to those who don't!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0088par0204	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0083par0205	At least listen there for three minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0088par0206	Mr. Erdogan, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0083par0207	Sir, don't say anything, dear. I'm talking, let him speak when his turn comes.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0089par0208	Mr. Erdogan, don't listen.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0088par0209	I'm so sorry I gave you this warning! Why don't you come in and do some actual intervention?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0083par0210	Sir, I mean now, every day it's the same thing. Everybody's talking when we're talking about our solution.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0088par0211	You guys talk, I can give the General Assembly a heads-up long enough.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0090par0212	Go ahead. Mr. Erdogan, go ahead, don't engage.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0083par0213	Terror must be fought altogether. The terrorists in Kandil must also be fought, and the terrorists in Syria must also be fought. In east and southeast, in the west, in our great cities, everywhere, all the structures of terror must be fought. Today, universities have become the home of terror. Terror must be removed from the universities. Again, the AKP's government on financing terrorism provides funding for terrorism through the wrong policies it has always made. For example, illegal cigarettes are sold in Kızılay. For example, despite the amount of oil from $150 to $30, diesel prices are still being kept at a level that will encourage trafficking. These things need to be dealt with. Again, a deputy prime minister has made a devastating statement to all of us: the border of Syria is too long, we can't protect it. Yeah, well, you think a little bit about that when you say -- a deputy prime minister. When was the Syrian border drawn, fellas? It was drawn in Lausanne. Turkey, which was 13 million from then on, protected these borders, but today Turkey can't maintain them, what logic is that with this technology?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0091par0216	Earth leader!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0083par0217	This logic needs to be eliminated, border security. Second of all, you've been wrong about this solution, the expansion, the Habur and so on. You have appointed the PKK as the representative of the citizen. You've left the citizen helpless. Now a psychological study has to be done that will restore that citizen's trust, eliminate the terrorists, that those people's representative is not the PKK, that those people's representative is Parliament, that those people are elected, that people are equal citizens of this country, just like all citizens in this country. That's the biggest problem this betrayal process of yours has brought to Turkey, my friends. If you're going to fight terrorism today, first of all, where should we sit at the table, which is still on one side of your head? Save yourselves from the dilemma, because one thing you've won in the election success of November 1st is the image that you've given the citizen as if you were fighting terrorism after June 7th. That's how you got the vote from the citizen, and from now on, you'll have to come up with a solution to eradicate terror. If you can't solve terrorism, you can't solve tourism in Mugla. If you can't solve terrorism, you can't control production, industry, education in major cities. In this regard, I say the power must come to its senses, take the necessary measures when there is opportunity. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0092par0222	The last speaker in favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal will be Mr Ahmet Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0093par0225	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to start by greeting all of you. No matter what the Republican People's Party says on its behalf, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on the basis of its motion to investigate the irresolvency of the Kurdish issue. From what Mr. Encel said, I will participate in a large portion of the political power's insincereness of the Kurdish issue and what they want to do in the past 14 years. The government has never set up a sincere project to resolve the Kurdish issue; I agree, but what is amazing is that the Kurdish issue presented here, not a hundred years ago, but as if it was an issue that had been uncovered in 2002. Another issue: As a member of parliament who has been addressing the bench at some intervals for approximately five or six months, I find it not right to oppose any opposition party because there is a government that already rules the country and wants to drag it into bad places. Because I didn't see it as something that this country's atmosphere could take to oppose the opposition during a period of political power, which has seen death, bloodshed, denominating evil. However, when we read the reason for the Republican People's Party's motion to form a research commission, especially when we read the reason for its proposal, about the Kurdish issue, as if it was not a matter of a hundred years, as if it had not seen 26 armed attempts before the PKK launched the armed struggle, as if the Kurds had not started their own rights search process in 2002, as if it had never happened before. But let's just say that in the 80th century of this matter, there's a Republican People's Party, who, as a bit of a proprietary, is a bit of a grower. I'm afraid if we attempt to resolve this by bringing him back and reducing the matter of a hundred years to only 14 years without his own accountability, we can't in any way serve to stop this bloodshed. We cannot establish the Kurdish issue and the collective rights of Kurds as a people by peaceful means. Let me put it this way: for the past 20 years, the CHP has been trying to solve this problem in some way, and it wants to present solution projections, but I'm afraid to say it's going to work out, but I'm sorry to inform you that we're facing an unknowing CHP reality. I'd like to express my regret that CHP still hasn't offered a new solution to the 1989 Kurdish report. The spirit of time has changed, the world with the 1989 report has changed, the Middle East, the region and the country. A lot of water flowed under that bridge, new instruments, new political fighting tools, new actors came in, but we're sad to see that it's still in the 1989 SHP Kurdish report. Look, what we've been hearing from CHP MPs about is that we want to solve the Kurdish issue. We want to solve it in parliament or elsewhere, but let's not forget that this hundred-year-old social injury is more important than the spatial reality, rather than where it's going to be solved. Okay, how do we solve it in Congress? For example, for CHP, when it comes to the Kurdish issue, the first four articles of the Constitution will not change. You say it all the time.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0094par0234	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0093par0235	It won't change. And we have no problem with the borders of the country, with the flag, with the anthem, with the capital. I mean it with an open heart and a sincere heart. So, what do you propose about the country's official language, citizenship definition, basic language education? For example, what do you propose to change the law on the Constitution 42 ▪ that prevents education in the native language? Or how do you feel about this country's differences, ethnic, religious, religious, cultural pluralism, Turkic, Muslimism, monotheism that reduces the differences of this country to circumcision? The Constitution 66 accepts us all as Turks. I'm a proud, proud citizen of the Republic of Turkey, but God didn't make me a Turk! I'm not Turkish. This -- I told you last time -- Turkishism, Kurdity, alone, is nothing to be ashamed of or ashamed of, a feature that comes from the outside. Constitution 42, Constitution 66, basic language education, official language. In fact, the official language doesn't matter. But what do we think of everyone who's been reduced to Turkish, Turkish, and this, to Turkish education in the native language, and the fact that those other than that, the rights to minorities, are not recognised to Kurds who are the founding elements of this country? Let's solve it in Congress, of course, but how do we solve it? If not, let's offer a major solution projection in Oslo, in Berlin, in Washington, in Moscow, in Tokyo, in Habur, in İstanbul, in Ankara, in Diyarbakır, where it's solved, it doesn't matter much, it doesn't matter how, it doesn't matter. The people of this country and the land of this country have been filled with blood, and we can see no other suggestion than to serve more and more of our young people to fall into the ground, unfortunately, for all the things proposed and irresolved to unresolved. The world's experiences have put us in front of us: Look, if two elementary school kids fight, not blood, even a punch between them, the teacher who wants to make peace with them will do it with the consent and consent of two sides. Two families fighting, two families fighting, two families looking for consent, or if not, it won't work out. A hundred years of blood involved, still one-sided, single-handedly... unfortunately, there's already a power that does that. Look, there's already a government that's made evil ordinary, blessed blood, blessed death for five or six months, that's why the main opposition party doesn't need to push, become pioneers, become successors. Another issue, see, political power didn't really consider the solution process as a resolution of a hundred years of social issues; it didn't run the two-and-a-half-year process like that; it saw it as a liability to the presidency, to the ward, and it wanted to solve it. He was blocked for her, the solution wasn't bad, he had intimacy issues, he was bad. There was no taking steps and moving forward on a hundred-year-old problem, but if it wasn't, it wasn't him. Finally, let me say this: look, there's a power applied to blood, mortal, hawk politics. To do that, the main opposition party doesn't need to want more than more than the government does, it doesn't need to pursue so many ruling policies. Last week, Mr. Altay was here, telling me from that stand. Yes, he said the offer to remove the immunity was immoral. Believe me, that process where no young person dies or blood flows was not such a vicious process. That's what's immoral, that's what. If not, I'll tell you this: they are expressing themselves, your president has expressed it; we don't believe it, but we will agree to something that we don't believe in so that we don't appear side by side with HDP. This is an indication that your agenda is determined by political power, not by you, and that you are pursuing it. No position is taken on the sensitivities of power. It makes the main opposition party vulnerable. It's got to be ethnic. And in such a passive position, in conclusion, I would like to say that the soldiers, the police, the special operatives who were sent there, I don't know what their emotional world was for, but for those who drove them there, not for the defence of their homeland, but for the defence of the palace. In the end, I say these young men are dying for the palace, not for the country, and I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0095par0245	Thank you. Mr. Altay, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0096par0247	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0095par0248	First Mr. Altay raised his hand. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0097par0250	Mr. Orjip has made a bet that the Republican People's Party on the Kurdish issue that has been going on in Turkey for 30 years has offered nothing but unresolvedness and has made an open challenge to our group. I demand word.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0095par0251	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0097par0254	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Congressman, we've been here for months. Either you blocked your ears or you ignored them as we spoke. I say, and I insist, that there is no other party in this Parliament who follows a more consistent policy than the Republican People's Party for solving the Kurdish problem. Education in the native language: We taught the native language before you did. The other part belongs to the pedagogs. We're still in the same spot. The Kurdish problem in Turkey is not solved with three words: politics is being done through lifestyle, politics is being done through ethnic property, politics is being done through faith, and the Kurdish problem is not solved. The Kurdish problem cannot be solved: on the mountain, on the slope, on the island; the Kurdish problem is solved in this Parliament. (HPP applause) I said it over and over again: I said that the minutes in Oslo, Imralı, and Dolmabahçe, in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, should be announced at least in one closed session. I do not believe that the first four articles of the Constitution are an obstacle to the Kurdish problem. Why is it a crime for you to be Kurds? As honored as it is that I am a citizen of the Republic of Turkey of Georgian origin, that I am a Turkish citizen, that you are a son of the Kurd, that you are proud of it, there is no obstacle. When the Republican People's Party of the People's Party of the Republic prepared 89 (HPP), the party officials of the period were tried. And I'd like to remind you that I am the first politician to say that this country has a Kurdish problem on the bench in the new AKP in 2002. My opinion also binds my party. However, the concept of people, the concept of Turkishness, don't worry about it. Think of it as an orange. Think of the slices in the orange as Kurd, Turk, Arab, Bosniak, Cerkek, Georgian, Laz; think of the shell of the orange as the definition of a Turkish nation that does not contain any ethnicity definition, and we will solve the rest together in this Parliament. My respects.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0098par0263	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0099par0264	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0100par0265	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0098par0266	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0100par0267	At the end of the talk, Mr. Yıldırım said that the work was not a defence of the country, but a defence of the palace. I demand word according to 69.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0098par0268	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0101par0271	Is that the only place you object to? Good for you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0102par0273	Mr. President, dear friends, no state, no government, no government, no conflict in their own country, people don't want to lose their lives, they don't want to, they don't want to, but every state in the world acts on its duty and its responsibility to fight against it, it's its moral duty. That's what Turkey does. Today, in some of Turkey's towns, a terrorist aggression has arisen in order to create an actual situation in their cities, under the name of special management. Against that, the state of the Republic of Turkey and its current responsibility, the AK PARTI government, which is responsible for it today, are obliged to carry out this task, that is what we do. Mr. Yıldırım talks about the palace, not the palace defense, but Mr. Yıldırım's court defense. Mr. Yıldırım tried to offend him with a piece of his own mind. The person sitting in that place is chosen by the will of the nation, responsible for the defence of the country, just like the AK PARTI, just like the CHP. In fact, you're in charge, and you're in charge. If there is a terrorist aggression against this country, it is your duty, of course, to speak positively on behalf of the country's spirit of resistance, as well, but Mr. Yıldırım here, I believe, in the spirit of the morale of the people who are defending the country with a propaganda language. He knows exactly why he's doing this. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0103par0277	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0104par0278	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0103par0279	Mr. President, both groups have been picking on the vice president. Mr. Altay, either you weren't here or you had your ears covered.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0105par0281	Yes, I did.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0103par0282	And Mr. Bostanci has something that I didn't say...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0106par0283	Here you go. Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0103par0285	Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0106par0286	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0103par0287	No, don't pick on me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0107par0288	Two separate taunts, four minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0106par0289	I can't do that. Right now... Wait a minute, guys. I can't give you four minutes, so be understanding. You should've told me separately. Two minutes... please...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0108par0293	Mr. Altay, let me tell you, we are now in a process where concrete steps are expected by all the peoples of Turkey. Show a written document that says you want to study the native language.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0109par0295	I didn't say I wanted to. I said education of the mother tongue, your native language.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0108par0296	Then learn English by training. Why do you learn from your mother? I call it basic education. Here's another thing: look, I'll tell you this: this life, for the young people whose body fell into the ground, your former group of vice presidents told me that they died for the country as we speak. They may have gone to that area with their own feelings, their own thoughts, but let me tell you, that was never the intention. And even if it doesn't cover all of its practices in that area, your oratories have also come here, expressing naked bodies, showing pictures of tortures to the lifeless bodies, your deputies. All right, look, you're gonna bring him in here and you're gonna tell him that you don't believe in our immunity, and you're gonna bring him in here and you're gonna confirm it even though you found him immoral. But the law that's been involved in these past five or six months, that's going to protect soldiers and police who have committed crimes, and will bring them immunity is coming here next week.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0110par0299	You're the one who's involved in the crime, you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0108par0300	Look, you're gonna say yes to removing our immunity, but that's how you're gonna accept the offer that frees those who are guilty of sin, bribery, corruption. And if it isn't, Mr. Bostanci, what you're saying is your emotional world. You're already here to tell the President whatever's being said to his palace, which is his place, and you're saying something from here, which unfortunately, you're no longer credible. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0111par0303	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0112par0304	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0113par0305	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0114par0306	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0115par0307	Mr. Altay, I promise you. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0116par0311	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I've watched the arguments carefully. In the talks here, Mr. Bostanci made a promise of bullying after a word was passed. So, Mr. Bostanci won't have to take the word "saray" and give an answer to the speech of the speakers who have expressed their views on the stand.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0117par0313	I said the country and the palace.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0116par0314	I'd like to bring up a few things that I consider important in terms of expression of our own thoughts. Now, the 66th Article of the Constitution is very clear and says that anyone who is bound by citizenship to the Turkish State is Turkish. So there's no definition of citizenship, no ethnitism or race. Also, again, everyone, Mr. Secretary, and you...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0118par0317	I'll give you one more minute, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0116par0318	Please, I didn't get it this morning either. ...we'll need to re-examine our population wallets, and we'll see in a half-minute review that there's no emphasis on any etnisity or anything like that. We should be proud of this birth certificate. If we can't unite in this birth certificate, where will we be united as citizens, as the precious assets of this country? Therefore, there is a nation's truth, and that nation's name is Turkish nation, and that race does not mean etnisity. You can't just do the definition of the population with etnisity, but there are elements of it that take hundreds of years and thousands of years. The people of Anado, the people of Turkey, are we to say, the people of Germany? In Germany, France, or other countries in China, a country of 57 ethnic groups, of course, is named after the will of that process. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our country's name is Turkey, and our country's name is the Republic of Turkey, and I say it's useful to consider this nation's reality, regardless of its ethnic origin, race, religion, religion, religion, the concept of the Turkish nation, whether we consider it as a nation's truth, the legal dimension of the work as a sociological foundation, as well as the political dimension, as well as the nation's social dimension, without damaging our unity. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0119par0323	Thank you. Mr. Altay, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0120par0325	Mr. Orator, in his speech, I have stated that the Republican People's Party will say yes to an immoral proposal...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0121par0326	No, you did.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0120par0327	I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0122par0328	Here you go. Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0120par0332	Thank you. Mr. Lightning, I'll tell you one. We've said it a hundred times, we'll say it a thousand times, not just to Mr. Yıldırım, but to the General Assembly. We've also said how to solve the Kurdish problem, and we've done our practices. We have offered 27 different law proposals to this Parliament, unfortunately, not one of them came to the General Assembly with the ruling party's numerical majority. We have proposed a three-stage plan: let's set up a consensus, social peace and understanding commission in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, where all political parties will be represented equally. We're behind it. Let's set up a joint think tank with this, simultaneous, outside, but political parties will determine -- call them wise men, call them what you will -- whatever you say. Mr. Lightning, are you listening?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0123par0336	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0120par0337	Simultaneously. After these two commissions began to work, once again, let's set up a commission to investigate the facts in Parliament, and with the cooperation of these three commissions in co-direction, with the power and cooperation of Parliament, if there is any intention, if the issue is not to feed on this Kurdish problem, this problem will be solved. Point is, we, the Republican People's Party, are prepared to sacrifice our political contribution to a drop of martyr blood, the blood of a civilian, brother. Are you in? Are you in? [[Applause from CHP rows]] For months, you have turned this House into a condolence tent, my lord, to this day he has been a martyr, my nation's head. These are not the solutions. This nation expects a solution from this House, and it's the only way to solve it. If there's another way, let someone say it here. It's not the solution: It's not the solution when you say, "Mr. Ocalan" and then you say, "The leader of the terrorist" is not the solution. This strategy has caused dozens of people to bleed every day in Turkey. As for immunity, we have had a principled attitude since 2002; we stand by it; this offer is inadequate, unethical.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0124par0345	It's not your offer!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0120par0346	We've offered our alternative offer.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0125par0347	How do you support an unethical proposal?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0124par0348	Bring your own proposal.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0126par0349	You guys go after your offer.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0127par0350	On the commission, our members will make the necessary corrections. We say, "Let's judge the one who divides the state and judge the one who steals it." I say this is what it takes to remove the immunity of both the Prime Minister and the ministers, the decency, the morality, the dedication. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0128par0354	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0129par0355	It's not both ethical. We're supporting it. Bravo!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0130par0356	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0128par0357	Mr. Baluken, let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0130par0358	Mr. Bostancı also returned to our group during his speech and, in fact, had to be concerned about the defence of the state of HDP, but... he made an open taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0128par0359	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0131par0360	Mr. Bauken, speak English! If you speak English, we'll understand better!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0130par0362	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, now we don't have a long time to explain how the defense of the country was provided. We've said over and over again that the defense of the country can't be allowed to be an actual part of a war that's out there, where the blood takes the body, and we don't have the right and the right. We have repeatedly expressed democracy, freedom, a number of approaches passed by policies that precipitate peace, and that only national defence can be guaranteed. You're the ones who decided to fight the war inside, you're the one who meddled in all wars in the Middle East, especially Syria, and then you're the one who came in here and tried to target a political party as if it hadn't happened. Look, I gave a clear, concrete example here two days ago, what's the status of the consul general of Mosul? You're naive to do this literature, you're native and you're national. What did you do? Didn't the authors of this literature abandon the consul generalship of Mosul to ISIS and then target the bombs of the coalition planes? Isn't there wind blowing in there right now? Is this your idea of defense? And that's what we'll continue to oppose. So we're calling it the battle of the palace, and you're against it. Well, we -- as an MP in that process -- were dragged into this battle vortex with the presidential account as we were within a week of peace. Of course we'll call it a palace war. When your children are traveling in the casinos in Singapore, go out in the same way and be a martyr to the children of the people. If you call, of course, we will call it a power struggle. Therefore, instead of questioning your own policies here, we have never agreed to put the HDP (HDP) on the target, nor will we ever again. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0132par0368	Thank you. Now, as the final speaker of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, I would like to call to the stand Mr. St. Babushcu, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Pop-Pop.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0133par0375	Mr. President, I salute you with respect and love. At the very beginning of my words, Mr Muharrem Tütü, I don't think he's in the General Assembly at the moment.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0134par0377	It comes every six months.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0133par0378	This, in fact, is an attitude that demonstrates the sincere approach of the Republican People's Party to a parliamentary investigation, I'll tell you that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] But I, Mr. Tüt, since he came to the House after a long break, first of all, his father, Sheriff Ence, who he lost last month, offer his mercy and my condolences. It's welcome, but it's empty, and I'd like to express it specifically. Because when we look at the content of the research proposal, it's very clear that it's empty. I'd like to make another statement regarding Mr. Tül. He used a sentence when Mr. Tün performed a similar visit from the Republican People's Party to the east and southeast on April 12th. I'd like to express it here, too, because I'm so worried. Mr. Slim said, "I don't like people as much as my sin." True, Mr. Fine, we don't like our sins, but we love every creature that is created because of the Creator, even if it is Muharrem Slim, let me express it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, of course, a research motion has been made. It's a natural thing to give, it's their rights. We'll respect that. However, we have something to say to CHP, and what I'm going to say, as expressed here, is not about the solution, but about the approach to the issue, about the method. Regardless of what we think, we all have common denominators in a country or in a society, and these values are very important values, such as the flag, like the nation's unity, such as our brotherhood. They have a common denominator where all of the different ideas come from are just a function of common denominator, which binds people around common denominators, makes them one and together, and should make all of them. I want to make it very clear that the fight against terrorism is not just a matter of government in this country, but of everyone living in that country, living under that flag, all of us. Because the war on terrorism is a national case for every country. Political concerns are not considered in this fight, they do not account for the loss of votes, and political competition is not considered in this fight. Therefore, the most important and priority mission to each political party is to present a primitive and moral stance against terrorism in the first place. Terror can only be challenged, terrorism can't be used as an excuse. So, when we ask the question, what kind of attitude has the UMP been in Turkey's fight against terrorism so far? And I'm quite clear that it's been the opposite of what I've said so far. In an opportunism and lack of principle that terrorism has political consequences and that this will weaken the AK PARTY and vote for CHP. I can actually give you a lot of examples of that. I'd like to start by expressing it, for example, since there's a motion for research in the same sense today. In fact, the Republican People's Party, including Mr. Sezgin Godkulu, made a similar suggestion in March 2013. As the EC PARTY, we made a proposal in the same way, and it was a parliamentary research motion to combine the two to form the commission, to investigate and find ways to resolve social peace-breakers. But then our friends from the Republican People's Party, who signed the motion, withdrew their signatures, and Mr. Ence, in the minutes on the day of the withdrawal of those signatures, said, "We don't want it, brother." Oh, you're gonna force him in there? I don't want to be with you, I don't want to be with you. Jesus Christ! How dare you! How dare you! We don't want to be with you. Now, from a parliamentary research proposal for the Republican People's Party on the fight against terrorism -- a position that the parties are allied with -- I'll leave the sincerity of this motion to the House and to our nation's discretion, for the sake of not wanting to be seen or sided with the AK PARTY. When we talk about terrorism, I don't have a promise to the HDP people. They have already lost their own light under the guardianship of Kandil. They maintain a position under the command of Kandil. They clearly support PKK terrorism. What's interesting and painful is that CHP has come to a place on the HDP axis. As long as we went through it, the whole nation saw that CHP had taken the HDP with it arm in arm. In fact, let's remember that a member of every CHP family should vote for HDP (HDP) so that HDP would pass the dam and the EC PARTI would step down from power. You made the calls.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0135par0388	There's no such thing, it's a lie!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0133par0389	On June 7, we rocked the airport together, but it was your MPs who banged the HDP executives.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0136par0390	They delivered rice in Çanakkale because they had crossed the dam.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0133par0391	You took over the PYD and YPG because they were defending their territory. Your president can't even say PYD is a terrorist organization. And his motive is both funny and tragic: "Sir, we are not a terrorist organization." If he makes a clear statement, we care about this explanation, Mr. Kilicdaroglu says. What kind of logic is that? Since when does the declaration of a terrorist organization mean we don't know them? Again, your same president spoke to ditch boilers by addressing them as friends.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0137par0393	Where were you when the moats were dug?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0133par0394	Those of you who spoke in the language of Kandil while fighting terror at the expense of our military, our police, who said that if Turkey went to war with Iran, it would be part of the Iranian army. Over and over again, our prime minister has made it very clear: ▪CHP is unable to take a national stance against terrorism. CHP is now on the HDP line. Dear MPs, maybe CHP Kandil. We're not fighting the state anymore, we're fighting the AK PARTY. All those who oppose the AK PARTI will support us. He may be more excited than he says. On the other hand, the CHP was opposed to the EC PARTY, not to Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Imagine, when there was a terrorist incident in France, a newspaper that made a headline for France cries out to its children. In Ankara, 37 of our young students, most of whom died in a bombing attack, the headline of the country of cathliam, CHP supports this mentality. The same mentality is reporting the country's security, and the CHP immediately takes care of it with the freedom of the press. CHP, HDP, PKK and FETO have all identified common enemies, which is AK PARTY. Unfortunately, however, the issue has come out of opposition to the EC PARTY and has turned against Turkey. Dear friends, it is, of course, the responsibility of all political parties in this Parliament, not just the EC PARTY to fight terror and to cleanse this country of terror and to make it a safe, peaceful country. We have made this country a home with the Turkish people who lie side by side in the graves of the martyrs in Çanakkale, with the Kurds, with the Laz, with the Circeş, with the Arab. No dark game, conspiracy, and dirty trap can darken the future of a nation with a history of Çanakkale, dear friends. I think what has to be done is what CHP should do -- I mean what Mr. Kilicdaroglu put down, I mean what he meant by it -- to put aside the opposition to the EC PARTI in the fight against terrorism of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and put aside the political ambition of... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He says he needs to make a political decision and decide who he's going to lie in front of in that sense, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0138par0403	Mr. President... Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0139par0405	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0140par0406	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0138par0407	Mr. President, the orator has made a heavy attempt to implicate our party in the terrorist organization. The Intuitive God-fearing will answer.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0140par0409	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0141par0410	Sir, there's also...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0138par0411	Wait a minute... if you want a word apart, I'll answer that, and you'll be...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0141par0412	By mentioning my name in person, orator...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0142par0413	Mr. Godkulu, I'm listening to Mr. Altay, and then I'll hear your request. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0143par0417	I'm looking for Mr. Pop-Pop, are you there?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0144par0418	I'm here.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0143par0419	Let friends stop digging this ditch in the pits. It means that the ditch is made with the awareness that the boilers are citizens of this country, and listen and listen to those who command the trench boilers.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0145par0420	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0143par0421	...to those who give orders to the furnaces, to those who make them dig the moats is one thing. We have lifted the Kurdish ban, calling me "Serok Ahmet" (they call me "Mr. Ocalan") and "The PKK flag" is not a crime. There is a very broad area of prestige, one of the few people reading the future of the world. They're all members of this party; some are ministers and others are MPs here.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0146par0425	Names, names.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0143par0426	People may not know how deep your euthanasia is, but...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0147par0427	There was no ditch when Ocalan was involved, don't twist it!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0146par0428	Names, names.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0143par0429	I'll tell you their names. I'll tell you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0147par0430	When Ocalan was in contact with the outside world, there was no ditch.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0143par0431	These are the words of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Ahmet Davutoglu, Bkent Arinc, Sadullah Ergin, Beşir Atalay, Yalçın Akdoğan, Yasin Aktay, Hero Bulut and Etyen Mahçupyan. Are you going to throw them away?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0148par0432	You're bringing in papers from Twitter!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0143par0433	It's not a paper trail, it's all coming out of these guys. One face, that's what you call a rash! The Republican People's Party is not a party that feeds on the Kurdish problem like yours when it comes to saying, "Ocalana, believe" and saying, "When it comes to its place, it's not a terrorist leader." All these blood flows in Turkey today have the responsibility of this government. Come, answer here, and after that, stand before the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0149par0435	What do you say now, Mr. Altay, what do you say now?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0143par0436	HDP is a legitimate party, a legitimate party with 6 million people's votes. We'll meet with them, and we'll agree to some laws here.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0150par0438	Anyone who says otherwise is a fool!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0143par0439	But we didn't work at the same table as you, we didn't become ecalan lovers like you, we didn't say "terrorist chief" when it came to our work, we didn't kneel before him, we didn't answer to the government, we didn't answer to him. Mr. Bashir Atalay, come, I didn't say what you said. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0151par0443	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0152par0444	You didn't answer the allegations!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0143par0445	What do I give you? I said it!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0153par0446	Mr. President, I woke up with Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0154par0447	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0155par0448	I'll give you my word, and so will you. I think Bashir Atalay wants a word because his name is mentioned. You wanted a promise?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0154par0450	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0155par0451	Okay. Mr. Baluken, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0156par0453	Mr. President, speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party, the speaker has accused our party of being under the custody of Kandil. And he's taunted us, so we're going to have to answer to him.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0155par0454	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0156par0455	Mr. Meral Danış Beştaş will speak.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0155par0456	Here you are, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0157par0459	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, following this discussion, bullying, and accusations reveals who is responsible for the bloodshed. In fact, while parties are trying to shoot each other, it's a pity that the public is watching as we are far away from the solution, the solution process, the peace, the democracy, and the law. Today, they reject the process of solutions, which the EC PARTI member described as the Kandil guardianship, which they actually signed in the process of resolving. I'm really sorry, I can't say anything else. So at a time when the royal guardianship rose so high, it also shows who is responsible for hundreds, thousands of deaths, without any other explanation, for defending the blood and war that are now flowing. It is not for anyone to accuse HDP of co-operation with CHP, to make HDP look like an illegal structure, an illegal organization, know your place.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0158par0463	What if we don't know!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0157par0464	You are the parties established according to the Constitution, and according to the Constitution, we are a party with a group in parliament who have entered the election according to the Law of Political Parties.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0159par0465	Don't dig a ditch, it's a ditch!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0157par0466	We run a study according to the law of this country, we run a policy. We are the greatest guarantee of this country's peace and democracy's future. We've always said that we're ready to cooperate with all parties in the laws we find correct, if that's what it is, as long as we agree on the principles. When accusing CHP, it is our party that is actually excluded, otherwise accused, and declared illegal. We invite you to come to your senses. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm saying we can't test anything in this country without taking care of the solution process.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0160par0470	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0161par0471	Dear Godkulu...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0160par0472	Sir, the speaker speaking on behalf of the AKP has personally mentioned my name and told me the facts that were not true.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0161par0473	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0160par0475	Dear friends, I'm terribly sorry.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0162par0476	Whoa, whoa!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0161par0477	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0160par0478	Now, I have to say that it is all our fault that this Parliament has become like this, but this mentality and this head have come to a conclusion that it can't take a step towards Turkey's most fundamental problem and it can't really take a step in the head.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0163par0479	Which mindset is Sezgin?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0160par0480	So I'm terribly sorry.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0163par0481	Don't do this. Don't do this.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0160par0482	Look, we were the ones who went to the Prime Minister in June 2012. That's when the Prime Minister was walking around with a death rope and bleeding out of his tongue. We took responsibility, we made that offer in 2013, we gave it to our deputies, but then it came out here -- the deputy presidents of the group are here -- I made the speeches with the group's deputy presidents -- and the spirit of the process of the solution is that I won't share those conversations with anyone until they die -- but then, a month ago, the MIT talks came out, Mr. Babushcu; let's make it difficult for them. Have you read them?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0164par0483	It has nothing to do with that.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0160par0484	Look, you've cleared the solution process to put CHP in a difficult position.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0165par0485	So you broke the counter.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0160par0486	Yes, you did. We said then and now we're saying that actors are important in the process of solving things, but we said actor-oriented processes can't succeed, and then we did. So, bring it to this Parliament, secure it in this Parliament, set up an equal commission, but you set up a commission from the AKP, one from HDP. Where's that commission report? I'm asking you, where is he? Is there a report like that now?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0165par0488	Why did you sign your name?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0160par0489	You had it collected, and then you had that report collected, and that's where it came in, and it came in blood. Now, with death, you try to severely discipline people and apply the Sri Lanka model, the Sri Lanka model.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0165par0490	Why did you sign your name?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0160par0491	But we did not bow down and we will not bow down!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0166par0492	Who the hell are you? Who the hell are you? You won't give in!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0167par0493	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0168par0494	Mr. Atalay raised his hand before you, Mr. Pop-Pop. Mr. Atalay, what is your request?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0169par0496	By reminiscing about our name as the esteemed vice president of the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0170par0497	What do you mean, we're not bowing down, we're not bowing down? Who are you? We're fighting a terrorist.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0171par0498	I'm Sezgin Godkulu, okay?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0172par0499	Mr. Godkulu, please... a speaker speaking, let's be respectful. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0173par0501	...that we've been saying some words here, reminiscing about our name. I want to fix it, yes.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0174par0502	It's good to remember! Where's your name? Are you a man to be remembered?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0172par0503	Here you go. Two minutes, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0175par0507	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first I salute the High Council. The esteemed vice president of the Republican People's Party, here is our President, our Prime Minister, me, another Deputy Prime Minister who said some of the words... it's all unreal. For example, what they refer to me as, I never said that. We also know that the main opposition party's deputy leader is a serious person. Which, as you know, is the constitution of the resolution process, which was passed in parliament in July 2014, and the Republican People's Party itself supported Mr. Group Vice President, and then we discussed it with them.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0176par0509	We'll give it to him again.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0175par0510	I mean, when we're talking about our country's serious issues...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0176par0511	Tell that to your friends, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0175par0512	...we don't really approve of false statements that came in here saying things that weren't said.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0177par0513	He got it from Twitter, Twitter.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0175par0514	On these issues, as the EC PARTY, we don't do ethnic politics, we've always developed big policies, big looks to solve all of our country's chronic problems, and we're signing all of those policies again. As someone who plays a role in them, who takes responsibility, I sign my name again. We think of Turkey's issues as very serious issues. It's true that we reject and deny small politics in such slippery sentences. I express my sadness. I've been promised that. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0178par0517	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0179par0518	Mr. President, I didn't lie to get him into custody. It's possible to prove it, but if the Minister has changed his mind, I respect him. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0178par0520	Thank you. Mr. Pop-Pop, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0180par0522	Now, the last speaker, Sezgin, spoke of Godkulu, this mentality and this head, is the most fundamental problem. I want a promise.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0178par0523	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0180par0526	Now, quick as you can... Mr. Sezgin Godkulu, this House of Investigation motion is yours. Here's the reason, and here's this, and here's the parliamentary inquiry motion from the AK PARTY, which is here. But there's one other thing that's happening here, because the AK PARTY doesn't give a reason when it gives its own suggestion, because it accepts the motive as its own, but there is another fact that Sezgin Tanzkulu is withdrawing it with his signature. I'm saying this, that's all I'm saying. Secondly, the HDP speaker, in the definition of the solution process, what I'm saying is that I'm saying the right thing. What am I saying? I say the HDP has turned off its own light under the guardianship of Kandil. You have no light of your own, if only you had, and you are acting according to the yoke of the Kandil.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0181par0529	You decide that?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0182par0530	You see the relationship between yourself and the palace, between yourself and the palace.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0180par0531	That doesn't change the fact that you're a political party under this roof, of course you're a political party, and I wish you'd act in line with that political party mission, that's what we want. In the fight against terrorism today, if people don't march on your calls to Sur. If they don't compliment your demands for mass prayer, it's the success of the solution process. The solution process was started correctly, it was conducted correctly, but your aghas, who couldn't stand the pain of the mountains in the region, not the cries of joy and whining, have ended that process, and now, the state is fighting a language that it understands, that needs to be done with terrorism. But in the end there will be peace again, peace again, joy again. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0183par0534	Was it the right step to take down the mountain? You brought the gun down to the plain, was that the right step? What conscience do you have? You've got armed militia down there.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0184par0535	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0185par0536	Dear Godkulu...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0184par0537	Mr. Orator has been taunting me by reminiscing my name, making it seem like it's real.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0185par0538	He just showed me a document, and it's your signature, isn't it?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0186par0539	Let him tell me if he signed it or not, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0184par0540	No, sir, I have my own conversations at the time, so there's teasing, there's open teasing.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0185par0541	He showed me a retraction document that you signed.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0184par0542	Sir, there's a situation that isn't real.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0187par0543	File a complaint, then, if the document is false.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0185par0544	If that document isn't real, it's either edited or the signature isn't yours, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0184par0545	Sir, the whole speech is taunting me. That's when I put the motive on this stand, and from the look of it, it's not real. So, once again, here, I want two minutes' promise.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0185par0546	Here you go. Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0184par0549	Friends, valued lawmakers, we're talking about the world's bloodiest issue and a conflict issue that lasts the longest and costs the most, and we're still talking about shooting each other, and we're not doing anything else. Look, the way that motion was brought here that day came out a month ago when the MIT reports were published. Then I've made many attempts to be in harmony with the spirit of this process. You're welcome to write any commission proposal. Why did you take my advice, not a reason, and bring it? It was obvious from then on that you didn't mean well, look, you didn't mean well, it was obvious from then on. Look, you'd have made your own suggestion very easily. The proposal I wrote and the way the commission was formed and the commission you brought in was not the same, so we explained it here, and we explained it over and over. But, what is your purpose? Beating the vineyard, not eating grapes.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0188par0551	Dear God, it's not worth it, it's not worth it!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0184par0552	That was the point. That's why it came to this. Look, we've come to the law that the Minister has just stated, and we know what's missing, and we know what's wrong, and we've expressed it here, and we've come to the solution process, to peace, not to oppose people dying, and we've voted yes here. So, have you done the law yet, two years have passed? Did you inform this House, did you do anything? You didn't do that, and you didn't do that. Therefore, the group's deputy presidents are witnesses to how my proposal was brought that day, but I'm not going to explain it, it's a witness. The goal is -- the MIT documents have been discovered -- to beat up the farmer, not to eat grapes. The solution processes are these processes, they happen with dialogue, they happen with negotiation, they happen with confidence, but at the point where you can't be trusted, he's fully agreed with me.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0189par0555	I'm so sorry! I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0184par0556	So, I came here, and I talked to him that day, and I had that conversation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0190par0559	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0191par0560	Mr. President, during his father-in-law's speech, Mr. Pop-Pop made a lot of insults because we're under the custody of the Kandil again.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0190par0561	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0191par0562	Mr. Meral Danış Beştaş will speak.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0190par0563	Mr. Meral Danış Beştaş, please. Let's give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0192par0566	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as well as the solution process, we want to express it first, not to compete in a matter where blood is flowing, and there is still very serious pain and great pain. We've always said that it's necessary to discuss this problem on the right ground, on the right line here. I mean, we can discuss it here with polemics, cross-crimes, different allegations, different claims, for days, months, years, but we need to talk about something else here. We, the People's Democratic Party, express that the process of resolution is always right, that it should be, and that, as of today, there is so much conflict, death, looting, massacres, that the place where we're going back and forth is always the table and the place where we're supposed to be.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0193par0567	It's okay, it's okay, forget it.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0194par0568	There's no table, table's gone, table's gone.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0192par0569	And that's why right now...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0195par0570	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0196par0571	You go to the front! He sent his poor children to the table. Don't tell him, send his relatives.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0192par0572	I mean, there's another language for disparaging Mr. Ocalan to the process of solutions. When Mr. Ocalan was involved, there were no ditchs, and there weren't so many deaths. And it's expressed as if the solution process had been completed by whom, as if it were such an unknown. I'm just going to give you an example. The Assistant Chief Constable of Bingol was killed. Who really killed him? Why weren't the perpetrators found?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0196par0574	Ask the Home Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0192par0575	Why did the solution process continue after the Chief Constable was killed, and why it was no excuse, and after the decision was made, after the process that continued despite the Deputy Commissioner... I don't think I said anything funny, but if it's funny to you, it's a shame.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0197par0577	Funny, funny.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0192par0578	From that point on, let's end the custody debate, there's a right guardianship in this country, which is the custody of the palace over Parliament. We don't see who's saying it, we see what's saying it. Therefore, we did not turn out the lights, but you turned out Turkey's lights.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0198par0580	A person who has come with 52 percent, not this custody, but one who has come with the votes of the nation.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit03spe0199par0581	Thank you. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit04spe0199par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I vote on the Republican People's Party group proposal...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit04spe0200par0008	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit04spe0199par0009	We've got a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Arik, Mr. Yigit, Mr. Öz, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Demir, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Purçu, Mr. Emir, Mr. Aksyıldır, Mr. Akayın, Mr. Çayın, Mr. Eyınak, Mr. Tanurkulu, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Bircan. I'll give you three minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit05spe0199par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the Republican People's Party Group was not enough for the first round of roll call. I'm going to repeat the roll call now. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs from the Commissions. We will resume our talks in front of the Autoprocession of Personal Data, where we are left in accordance with the Law Charter and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place, in accordance with the Convention on the Protection of Individuals and Approved Protocol on Bordered Data Stream. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The talks on the entire bill were completed in the last joint. SECURITY CONTINUES CONTINUES TO CONTROL CONTINUE CONTROL OF CONTROCTION OF CONTROL TO CONTROLATION OF CONTROL OF CONTROLATION OF CONTROL TO CONTROCTION OF CONTINUATION OF CONTINUATION OF CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on November 8, 2001 in Strasbourg, with the declaration of the Protocol Against Autoprocession of Personal Data and Protection of Individuals. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on Article 1, Şanlıurfa MP Osman Baydemir will speak on behalf of the People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit05spe0201par0027	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. To tell you the truth, I've had the opportunity to make promises on behalf of my group and share my group's opinions in both the General Assembly and the Commission. I regret to inform you that I have never seen Parliament, unfortunately, carry out its legislature with a participatory will. Once again, the opposition's views, the opposition's criticisms, even the constructive stance of the opposition, my testimony in this parliament has not been taken into account or taken into account. With that dignity, once again, in two sentences, the Protection of Personal Data Convention, in essence, does nothing other than the formal jurisprudence, reporting of people, and when the day comes, some of the data will be used against him. And with that dignity in Parliament, there was a saying, which was expressed by government representatives again, that she is our son, that we are the law, that we are the judge, that we are the ruler. Therefore, who will be involved in what? With action from his word, again, a number of unlawful arrangements will be settled here today, with the majority's approval, with the majority's support. If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, I'd like to express my opinion on an urgent, vital matter as important as the bill we're negotiating right now, and if I may, I'd like to call for sensitivity. The city of Halilurrahman, the city of Urbana, where I was chosen, is now facing a heavy attack. Mr. Secretary, I know it's not your area of interest, but the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, they're hand-in-hand, and they're asking for some sort of account, sort of punishment. As of now, the national region, the Sheikhan region, the Karakechi region, the Yayla Lower region, as well as the Sivedek, Viranşehir, Ceylanpınar, our farmers who farm in the rural area face to face with the institution. For exactly three days, if we take down today, it's going to be four days, and it's going to be almost 500,000 acres, and it's going to be a risk to the plant. Mr. Ocalan, with our congressman, we've had several consultations with our farmer, and it's a problem of almost five years, as a matter of essence. In all the elections that took place during this five-year period, the government's relevant ministries, lawmakers in the squares, the problem is the primary problem for the people of Urbana, we will solve this problem. The farmer continues to have the same problem after the election is over. We've said many times before that the heavy burden of the Syrian civil war, the heavy bill on the back of the people of Urbana, is on the back of the tradesmen of Urbana, and there is only one economic activity that sustains the people of Urbana, which is agriculture. As of now, agriculture, the Ministry of Energy, and the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, are almost killed by hand. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Minister, what has the government done to you? What has Urbana done to you, that you have done this cruelty to Urbana, to Urbana? To put it very clearly, privatisation, once the privatisation of electricity itself was a betrayal of this country, and as it is not enough now, we are also facing a great betrayal of the people of Urbania. See, the Great Mountainy, Little Mountainy, Safe, Small Safe, Little Safe, Uluoba, Gelibolu, Boncuk, Cefalı, Kayakapı, Terzi, Uluhan, Flowery, Kubat, Peyamlı, Pagancı, Whitetepe, Down, Altitude, Goldpınar, Karakechi, Gold, Yellowbel, Kes, Kash, Kutlucan, Uranci, Kazanlı, Upper Aldı, Nohutlu, Lower Karacaör, Upper Karacaören, Upper Turi, Upper Turing, Upper Literary, Upper Literine, Salman, Salman, Salman, Salman, Salman, Salman, Salman, and Salman, all of the rest of the region of the world. It also requires a research proposal, and it also requires a gene question about both ministers. We will bring these matters back to the agenda of this Parliament as soon as possible. Once again, I invite the ministers to give up this hostile, hostile attitude regarding Urbana. A thousand salutes to the tradesman and to the Urban farmer from here. That they may know that they are not alone, and that We will establish their rights in this House, and that they are not alone. Now, I'd like to repeat my call once again: Urbana also has deputies outside the HDP outside of us, and I'm very clear, as we speak, there may be power shortages even in villages where the MPs are born and raised. There is a policy in the Adeta Urbana that the farming ends, as if the agriculture ends. This policy is unacceptable to us, and this policy for us, Mr. President, will continue to be deciphered. Another issue is that as of now, 48 seasonal farm workers from Urbana have taken a journey to Turkey in trucks, vans, tractors. Almost 300,000 people a year go out as farm workers, and about a million acres of uranium's agricultural land is being dried up due to power shortages. Is it with this policy that you will eliminate the unemployment in Urbana, this policy, and you will eliminate the poverty and the deprivation in Urbana? This, I'm telling you very clearly, is polluting the container he eats. The Jaffa will never, ever consent to this. The other thing is, look, it's easy to get up and throw away in the polls. Here, the people of Urbana have shown their will, and the people of Urbana have made you Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. It is treason to attend the assembly in the province, and to cut off the power of the farmer of Urbana, along with the deputies of Urbana. Here today, it is incumbent upon us to answer for this betrayal. That's why I've used my time, Mr. President, for this purpose. But, of course, it won't be limited by that, and of course, we'll continue to bring it to the stand and to all other platforms until this problem is over in the next period. Therefore, we must salute the righteous resistance that the Urban farmer has now established. On behalf of my group, I salute once again the resistance of the Urban farmer. And until this problem is over, I will continue to be the spokesman for this problem, to be the spokesman for Urbana's righteous cause, to be his lawyer, to be his proxy. My deepest regards.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit05spe0202par0040	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir. İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit05spe0203par0044	Mr. President, Congressmans, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding Bill 279. I salute you all. Unfortunately, Turkey has become a country in which hundreds of lives and goods have been lost due to lack of proper measures, lack of supervision, shipping and administration. Terror continues to hurt all of us and become the most vital issue of our country. I also said yesterday that our border security, especially the Church, is a threat, and our citizens living on border lines are at risk. In addition, deaths and injuries related to violence, work and traffic accidents have become widespread. In particular, the murders against women have become frightening. At home, at school, at the hospital, at work, on the street, violence has become common to women, children, students, teachers, doctors, athletes, and citizens. Disruption in national and moral values, lack of education, violent films, and the irresponsible attitude, attitude, and behavior of those in the position of responsibility promote violence. In an attitude that explains each issue at 49 per cent and puts it in front of half the population, polarizing, instigating and provocative styles of the AKP are driving both tension between individuals and the relationship between social layers in a direction that resembles violence. This point our country has come from is the result of policies that have been preparing and implementing the AKP (AKP), which has been responsible for running the country for 14 years. Dear lawmakers, the protection of personal data is one of the basic human rights. It has made it difficult to adopt national and international standards in the protection of personal data, along with the prevalence of information and communication technologies, facilitating access to information, and particularly the increasing roles of technologies such as the Internet and telephone in our daily lives. The European Council provides the second binding international arrangement, which was launched on 8 November 2001, following the main contract in the protection of personal data and the Protection of Individuals under the Convention on Autoprocessing Personal Data, which entered into effect on 1 July 2004. The main purpose of the protocol is to make arrangements for the automatic processing of personal data in entity states and for data flow crossing the border with authorities. In addition to the protocol, the ratification of the protocol was stated that the claim that Cyprus, which is not legally valid, is represented by its member, the Greek Cypriot Administration, would not in any way be accepted, and would not bring Turkey to any contact under the so-called Cypriot republic's business protocol. Cyprus is Turkey's most important national case. Turkey has rights and obligations that are undisputed and undisputed, stemming from the founding agreements on Cyprus. As part of the political solution, Turkey's effective and operational guarantee will not be accepted under any circumstances under any circumstances to be compromised or affected. Turkey will undoubtedly continue to support the honorable struggle that our relatives in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus have fought for many years with great patience and abdication. Turkey will be nowhere near any approach that threatens the existence of its Cypriot relatives. In this direction, I'd like to state that the supplement put during the ratification of the Protocol is accurate. We expect the European Union, Turkey's national unity and integrity; terrorism and separatism; its approach to fundamental foreign policy issues such as Cyprus, Greece and Armenia will not harm Turkey's interests. However, the European Parliament Report, dated April 14, 2016, remained indifferent to Turkey's fight against terrorism by Turkey's Turkish nation, who had not observed or respected any of its values. He wanted to restart the treason process, remove the PKK terror organization from the list of EU terrorist organisations, and identify alleged Armenian genocides along with the Greek Cypriot part. The report also shows that the right to visa exemption to Turkey will not reach June as part of the re-enactment agreement. This report, which demonstrates the European effort to create a ground for the division and disintegration of Turkey, is undoubtedly an example for those seeking legitimacy in European capitals. The Law on Protection of Personal Data 6698, as noted, was adopted on March 24, 2016, and was published on April 7, 2016 in the Official Gazette, and the protocol was adopted on July 1, 2004. 36 states, 35 of whom are members of the Council of Europe, and eight of us are still in the signing phase. Maintaining information security is a strategic issue. Therefore, access to information, the legal arrangement for sharing and protection of information and the creation of organizational, technology and manpower infrastructure in this direction is a must. While the protection of personal data is a fundamental right in Article 20 of the Constitution, Turkey is, unfortunately, a country where personal data is shared without permission, violated the privacy of private life through illegal listening and monitoring. People live on the phone, at work and at home, in doubt and concern. As the National Movement Party, we have stated that providing information safety is strategic in our election statement, that the legal, institutional and technological infrastructure necessary for the security of access, sharing, and protection of information will be established; that executive, user, producer, manufacturer, enforcer, regulatory and regulatory parties will act in responsibility in ensuring the safety of personal, institutional and national information. We pointed out the importance of the issue, as we said that in violation of the privacy of private life, illegal listening and monitoring would prevent it from being published, that protective measures that would guarantee the privacy of citizens' freedom of communication and privacy would be taken, that the perpetrators would be subject to effective punishment. In addition, in our country, we had previously pointed out that the institutions that provide information and storage of critical personal data, information and documents such as social security, address, identity, voters, tax records should be provided with an infrastructure that provides information and communication security for them. In our opinion, personal data security is an essential element of national security. However, recently, a database containing basic identity and address information belonging to about 50 million of our citizens has been uploaded to a Romanian-based site and has spread throughout the world. It's just that even this incident has shown an exemplary view of the firewalls in our country. A complete scandal is an act of irresponsibility that the government's simplification and hastening to say that the leak of information did not stem from them. Dear lawmakers, the leak of information was only before "Personal Data Protection Act." It would also be misleading to explain it in terms of form. In case the laws given in the law were not used in accordance with the purpose, we had stated that the laws could be abused and that the bill would be discussed. Therefore, if it is not applied correctly, it does not make sense to take out the law. Therefore, once again, I warn the government, and salute the General Assembly, by drawing attention to the importance of the practice of the Law on Protection of Personal Data.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit05spe0204par0058	Thank you. On behalf of him, Edirne MP Erdin Bircan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Bircan.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit05spe0205par0062	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Last week, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, we visited the provinces of Bitlis, Van and Hakkari. We met with NGOs in these cities, visited public institutions, listened to our citizens and expressed the opinion of our party. I am Edirne MP, but I know very well that if Turkey is to stand upright, it is Edirne, one foot is Hakkari, one foot is Ardahan, one foot is Mugla. In all parts of Turkey, the same heart must beat once in this goal and worry. There's been an incident that really impressed me during our visit, folks. In his 50s, a well-dressed, well-dressed, well-spoken friend of ours came and said: "Get to the president, I don't know how you're going to reach him, but if you have to get to him, get to the palace, get to him, and whatever you are, we want mercy. " People in this area want food, want bread, want work, but first, have mercy." I'm afraid we've faced such a word. Who is responsible for this desperation? So, here's where we come in, folks, as a result of your policies. Citizen wants work from his government, he wants food, but first he really wants mercy. Now he's in trouble, he's in pain, and he expects it from his government. We mix the stick with the hay, and we make policy against terror. That's what happens when you say it. As a result of your policies with enthusiasm and exposition and great speeches, you have caused pain to those who want to bring home bread, to live a better life, to win and live happily ever after. What you're negotiating with terrorism these days is slowly appearing in the media. You negotiated to make someone a dictator. By changing the name of the dictatorship, you also called the presidency. You let cities become bomb warehouses, you're complicit in the crime. One side has done autonomy, the other has done presidential accounts, and in the end, you have left hundreds of martyrs, evacuated cities, people who have left their homes, their homes, and, like the example that I live in upstairs, you have left a great deal of resentment in the hearts. You can build houses, and it would be good for your fellow contractors. How will you mend hearts? The AKP is responsible. With the opening policy that we've always said was wrong, it's the AKP. The AKP is the one who made all kinds of dirty negotiations for the presidency. The AKP, who's always been deceived, was deceived by what? Take what, give what? The sides of the Dolmabahçe agreement have to explain to our people the contents of this agreement, both parties have to explain it. The only person who asks for mercy from the President is you, my friends, and that plague will be a disaster for all of you. I don't give up on you in the fields of speech, there's a synth called mercy in your heart. It's not because I'm reading poetry. You've turned everything upside down, left nothing but a little bit of grass in the middle. Wouldn't a citizen give up hope if he didn't see mercy from you? So, how do we protect our brothers and sisters, how do we fight terrorism? I wish what you did would only harm you, but in the end, Turkey is hurting, and we suffer it together, as mothers, fathers, children, brothers and sisters, all of Turkey. That's enough! And that which you have given to our people is an abomination. It's hard to repair the resentment you're going to cause in the hearts of our citizens. The state is first in the heart of the citizen. Finally, I salute you in the language of Jonah. *Yunus Emre says: There's a thousand pilgrimages to be had. More than all of them, It's about getting into a heart. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit05spe0206par0078	Thank you, Mr. Bircan. On behalf of him, the other speaker will be Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit05spe0207par0082	Mr. President, our city of Şanliurfa is one of the model cities of our thousand-year-old sisterhood story. Whatever yeast is preserved for fermenting yogurt, the cultural acquish of Şanliurfa is represented at the point of representing unity within the cultural diversity of the cultural acquish. His heroics in the national struggle have given him the title of Şanliurfa, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, whether delayed or late, received his medal last week with the vote of the entire Assembly, and presented it to the Şanliurfas on the Assembly's Committee of Parliament and the Presidential Court. But as of this day, over the past two years, the issue of electricity, which was the bleeding wound of Şanlıurfa, brought the matter of power cut to a standstill; the matter of loyalty to his government, to his nation, to his land, to a point where those sincere Sanliurfa farmers, Siverek farmers, could face the police. We call the state security forces to the end, to the point of confronting terrorists in the ditch, but some of the fighting by 16 villagers, with at least a thousand, five hundred inhabitants, was reflected on the screen last night, and some of it was not reflected. Our party, our headquarters, and our parliamentary group are informed by the leaders, our friends, and sincere patriots who are there, and we want to drive our land with our sweats and pay for our labor, but with these privatisations, electricity bills are twice the amount of our labor on agricultural irrigation. The tractor, along with the gas costs of 100 acres of land, says we have to pay more in debt than what we have planted. I promise you that I will solve this matter three days before the election in the village of Urban Bozyaz, with the contributions of the Zuraat which they have given us, with those who have not paid their debt, and the whole problem that they have generalized, please let the Minister of Agriculture deal with these problems. We are here to express to the government, in particular Mr. Faruk Çelik Bey, that he must resolve this problem quickly. We have a responsibility to resolve these problems with our brothers and sisters, who, in this sense, are fighting for the unity of Turkey. We have to show them the same support, the same sensitivity, in terms of electricity bills, in the fight against the rights to operate their land in exchange for their efforts. I'm also speaking as one of the regulars of the Urban Society, because this is the second planet to my hometown. The second land of the Şanlıurfa people is the nearest one to Osmaniye. In the 1969's, the neighborhoods with Osmaniye, which began in the 70s, we share the law, the relationship that I mentioned to each other as of today, as well as the relations that we established with each other and our cultural exchanges. The more Şanlıurfaans there are, the more I'm proud to see that the Şanlıurfaans themselves belong to Ottomans and many other Turkish and Turkish cultures in Osmaniye. I say that our Şanlıurfa brothers in Osmaniye are also aware of this crisis in Şanlıurfa, and that they are in contact with us at the point where these problems are being organised, and I say: The children of the hero who made the hero, the heromarash, are facing a new test today. They will give this test by labor, by sweat, by love, by reprocessing the land, but it is said, "Please, let us support the labors and rights of these moral, virtuous, working people, to work their land, and to punish those who have built a ditch, and I salute the General Assembly with respect."
tbmm-2016-04-20sit05spe0208par0087	Thank you. I submit item 1 to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit05spe0209par0089	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit05spe0208par0090	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 50-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit06spe0208par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. My friends aren't here yet, and there's no one in the group. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0208par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on Article 1 of the 279 rows of the Bill of Law was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the item back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... It's agreed, there's enough to decide. We will continue negotiations with Bill 279. The Commission and the Government are here. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on Article 2 of Article 2, Mud MP Ahmet Yıldırım will speak on behalf of the People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0210par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party group regarding the International Contraction No. 279. I salute everyone. Yes, there are parliamentary talks on several international contracts each month, and party groups express only the thought, without any changes to the content of these contracts. Of course, countries that are part of the international community have developed international business units and international... Mr. President, there's a lot of buzzing, but...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0211par0016	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0210par0017	There are no doubt many positive aspects of these agreements that countries have made in order to integrate with the international community, to form business units for the collective culture of life that humanity has uncovered for thousands of years, and to improve the culture of reconciliation. However, countries that have committed international contracts have first come to terms with the reality and obligation that they have acquired stability within a peaceful environment with all the people who have created their country, to be a respectable country in their internal legal order. And in our country, especially at a time when legal order, judicial order, freedom of the press, academic autonomy are controversial, we do not have the chance to be respected in international contracts that we have signed without respect for and without respect for the rule of law, especially those who run this country. Today, we would like to ask those who have submitted a new international contract to this Parliamentary approval. Our country is a founding member of the Council of Europe, our country is a candidate for full membership in the European Union, our country is a NATO member, an OECD member, a member of the United Nations. These memberships no doubt burden our country with certain responsibilities, as do many countries who belong to these international institutions. However, how much of the responsibility these international institutions have imposed on our country as a part of the international community, these issues really need to be discussed. Well, these international institutions in particular, I'm talking about, are publishing periodical reports on all member states. However, as the Government of the Republic of Turkey, we face as many subjective assessments and statements as possible regarding the way these reports are published. The point is that when it comes to our work on reports published by international institutions that we are a member of, these institutions are respected, but reports that have failed to help us, critical of the implementation of executives, unfortunately, have been given the justification for grounding these international institutions. For example, in recent years, international institutions, particularly the European Union Progress Report, published reports on Turkey in particular, there are serious criticisms similar. One of the common characteristics of these reports is that there is a way back in Turkey to use basic human rights. In the use of freedom of the press, in the independence of the judiciary, in the autonomy of universities, we're dealing with progress reports highlighting the way backwards. I'm sorry to say that in the war against civilians in the region today, the practices that have brought the law, the conscience, the morality of war underfoot have taken its place in these reports, and these reports have brought serious criticism. Let's say that the European Union Progress Report, which should be published before the November 1st election, was not published before the election by the government's lobbying activities, but unfortunately, it was published before the November 1st election, in order to restore the European Union's reputation, and was then issued after the November 1st elections to protect the government, which had been in power for thirteen years. When the European Union Progress Report was not published before the November 1st elections, the European Union was a respected institution, according to the government, but was faced with serious criticism, especially after the report was published and brought serious criticisms against the government. Critics from the European Union, which criticised the country's practices after the election, were voiced by the President yesterday with harsh rhetoric, while the criticism of the content of the report was not questioned if the country was given lessons that would serve to bring it to the surface. For example, we know that he has to go and sign an immigration contract, which is one of the worst international contracts in the history of this country, but in the same month, when the terms of the contract are broken, we don't stop saying that the European side is bad. No international policy, unfortunately, has any principled infrastructure or plane left. Turkey reduces relations with Sisi (Egyptian) coupkers to zero, and then comes to try to set negotiations from the highest level. We will reset relations with Sisi the coupger in Egypt, and then we will have a conflict that will not stop from going to meet the King of Saudi Arabia, the greatest supporter of Sisi (Sisi) in the international arena. In Syria, we will support DAİŞ and radical gangs, and when things go wrong, the cities of this country will be shot with weapons given to the same organization -- as in the last week -- countless of our citizens will lose their lives. There have been days of attacks against the Church, but we are faced with the reality of a government that has yet to name the attack. What is it? The rocket came through Syria. What is it? For days now, these citizens have been killed or injured by incoming rockets. Unfortunately, there has been no proper name-calling so far, as to the fact that this attack was a systematic terrorist attack. Last week, he and the Undersecretary of MIT go all the way to Minister of National Defence Milis, but as we learned in a reflection of the same MIT (MIT) listening to an environment in the Foreign Ministry two years ago, they still remember that rockets could be launched from Syria to the country, if necessary, and that could be the reason for entry into Syria. We can't help but wonder if the government has been unable to establish a clear stance on rockets being launched from Syria to the Church, or is it trying to justify the interference with Syria?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0212par0025	Bravo, Mr. Ahmet!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0210par0026	We're curious, frankly, what will a state within the country that can't make peace with its people do with its successful diplomacy in foreign policy? The 64th and former government, which is insufferable of the winnings of the Rojava Kurds in this country with Kurds, continues to undermine the country's reputation, especially from Kurdish phobia inside and outside the country. In that sense, of course, new international contracts can be made. These contracts are not to save the day because of its own tightness, but to save the day, unfortunately, they're trying to make the entire country pay for their mistakes, which unfortunately is what happened in the Church. Let's say again, you can't avoid the truth because it didn't work out for you in the European Union and the U.S. reports, but we can all be saved as one by confronting and turning away from the wrongs. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0213par0030	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit Article 2 to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0214par0032	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0213par0033	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All in favor... There will be a vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's enough to decide, matter accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on Article 3, Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul will speak on behalf of the People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0215par0044	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Dear President, in the process of automatic processing of personal data, Turkey's dream of entering Europe without visas until June, but when we look at applications, it's all about pretending on paper that everything is being done and making laws without thinking before it, turning parliament into a law factory, but unfortunately, in essence, it's not making any changes. Mr. President, Turkey's foreign policy began with zero problems, and those who said there were zero problems with the neighbours, unfortunately today, the world has become completely disputed. When entering Libya, those who said, "What is NATO doing here?" later shot Libya with their own planes. Those who called Sisi Nahi the coupger, those who said he was behind Mursi. Unfortunately, they were at the top of the class, and they did not refuse to give the State Engagement to King of Saudi Arabia behind Sisi. Russia was quarreled with, and even earlier, those who talked about entering the Shanghai Five, who were hostile to Russia after they crashed the Russian plane, were treated as terrorists when our Peoples' Democratic Party Co-Chair met Russia, while they themselves tried to contact Putin. Again, we have a problem with Iran. The biggest problem remains with the process called the Arab Spring, which was launched in the Middle East, Iraq, Syria. Assad became Esad overnight, and became the greatest enemy. We joined forces with international terror organizations to bring him down. Today, this collaboration really turns like a boomerang, hitting the state of the Republic of Turkey every day. Dear friends, every day bombs fall on the church, the people of the Church are deeply concerned, and people in the church cry out every day that they have no more security of lives or property. Each day, when the bombs fell on Cizre were dropped by ISIS, the state did not put a description, as if they were being thrown out of there by some creatures, the bomb fell from Syria. They say, "The bomb has been dropped." They ignore the bombings of ISIS. Again, we became so cooperative with this ISIS that all the gangs of the world came from Azez-Cerablus and joined the ISIS gangs. The same gangs passed through and bled our country, and we ignored Ankara, Suruç, Diyarbakır, İstanbul, and even the capitals of Europe. In fact, we've created such a perception that gangs from Sudan are coming from the world, and I clearly want to join the ISIS ranks of our soldiers. There's a world-class perception that sees Turkey in co-operation with this gang, and today, in the Church, dear friends, the migration has begun. The rate of homes being sold is increasing. People don't dare go out on the street. People can't open a shop. If necessary by the parents of university students, freeze their records for a year and come home. Unfortunately, our province, which was nominated for the Nobel Prize, became an uninhabitable province today. You know those who see the Church as a Nobel Prize winner, the Nobel Prize candidates, can they boast about this work that came out today? Every day, when the bombs fall on the church, let the government's officials come out, our group's vice president and the other party's group's vice presidents. What's going on in the church? A state, a government official, will come out here and give an explanation. Even though it's been said, there's still been days and days and days and days and days and days and days and days and days, the government's official won't tell us a thing about it. The DAIH gang is perceived as a group that should never feel sorry for them. Today, Antwerp, Kilis, Hatay are dear friends with a perception like Peshawar. Today there is a perception in the world and in Turkey that Turkey is becoming Pakistani, and more and more people fear the safety of lives and property, saying that these cities are uninhabitable. Even immigrants, unfortunately, are being showered with a second bomb in the church where they come from when they're being bombed in their country, and they begin to escape from there. They don't do a damn thing about it. There goes the Chief of Staff, there goes the Undersecretary of MIT, but Turkey is not given a single piece of information to the public by a government official. Well, today our borderline, unfortunately, is threatened by this gang attack, but there's not a single precaution. The church is unclaimed. Today, no government official can give the church a single message he can say, "Relax here, you are safe." Because they know that the crow you're feeding is tearing your eye out today. The crow you feed is tearing your eyes out today, and you are unfortunately unable to establish an attitude. Dear friends, you do not refuse to use these refugees today as a weapon against domestic politics both outside and in the country. Just two days ago, Minister for Enlargement of the European Union Prodi says that the refugees are an atomic bomb in Turkey's hand, and they can throw it at us tomorrow. Yes, we're really trying to use it as an atomic bomb, we're threatening Europe. We are trying to design our foreign policy, our finished foreign policy, to see if the planes are empty and the buses are empty. So, what are we doing in there? We're doing the same thing inside. You're using this as a weapon against Alevi and Kurds, which you don't see, you see against yourself. You're building camps in the middle of the flames. You want to build the Arab belt in the land of Rojava during the time of Baba Assat by destroying Kurdish cities today. As the People's Democratic Party, we won't allow it, we'll take care of our people in border areas, and you should know that. Otherwise, you need to know that what's going to happen is that the S.E.A.G. gang is going to be sitting on your skirt like a bomb. If you don't take the necessary precautions, this DAIH gang that you've raised and nurtured will turn like boomerang, and continue to threaten our border provinces, economic life, social life, life, and property security. Everyone knows how you feed the EAST, and so does the world. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0216par0055	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0217par0058	Mr. President, we have a request for a roll call.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0216par0059	We've got a roll call. Mr. Spectacular, Mr. Kuycuoğlu, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Purcu, Mr. Akaydun, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Star, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Amir Bircan, Mr. Çanaak, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Avcıcı, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Emre, Mr. Bridgetlu, Mr. Pine. I'll give you three minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, the draft of the Law on Personal Data Against Autoprocession, under open voting on the Convention on the Protection of Individuals, Substances, and Confirming Protocol on Bordered Data Stream: ▪ Number of votes used: 196 No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Empty: no. Invalid: no. [[x]] Ali Haydar Hakverdi Mujahit Durmişoğlu So the bill is accepted and legalized. Members of parliament, we will resume the negotiations of the International Adjective Co-operation Act and the Justice Commission Report, which are in the 2nd place. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In the past session, the final motion on Article 3 of Article 3 was held in the voting process of Article 278, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. To remind you of the motion, I'll have it reread and vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the interim declaration of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on 278 rows in which it is being discussed should be replaced as the interconnectable (e.g.) at the end of Article 3 of Article 2 of Article 2 of the International Co-operation Act. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0218par0099	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0216par0100	I've read the motion... I've voted the motion...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0218par0101	Motion accepted. Your motion is accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0216par0103	I got the motion to vote...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0218par0104	Motion accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0216par0105	Congressmans, listen to what I'm reading. Please!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0219par0106	Mr. President, you've voted the clause.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0220par0107	Look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0216par0108	I got the motion to vote... please! I've read the third motion out loud and clear here, and I've submitted it to your votes. In accordance with the current motion, I submit the clause to your votes:
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0221par0111	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0222par0112	Mr. President, you said it was material.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0221par0113	Mr. President, listen to me.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0223par0114	I'll listen to you, but I'm clear on this. Please, you understand me too.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0222par0115	Mr. President, don't be clear without looking at the report.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0223par0116	Come in, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0224par0117	Mr. President, take a break, take a look at the transcripts, then decide.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit07spe0223par0118	Look, I know what I'm doing is very clear, and I'm not going to back down on this. But you're a group vice president, and since you've made a request for this, I'm gonna take a ten-minute recess, and I'm gonna have to call the group's vice presidents in the back.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0223par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Of course, the reports are everything to us. Even if at times we object to what was written in the report or did not do so, even if we object and argue, the reports show the truth. After I had the motion read, I did not submit the motion, but the third article to your votes. After that, I had him read the proposal. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Since the transcripts have said everything, I must open a formal discussion of the 13th Amendment.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0225par0006	So the records couldn't have been tampered with!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0226par0007	There's no need to discuss the procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0223par0008	That's what we have to do, folks.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0227par0009	In the end...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0228par0010	Against...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0229par0011	In the end...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0230par0012	Against...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0231par0013	Erkan Akçay in favor, Mr. Baluken in favor, Doğan Kubat in favour, Free Special in favour... Yes, I would like to call Mr. Erkan Akçay to the stand. Here you go. Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0232par0019	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It's a good thing there are reports, but what would happen if there weren't reports? It wouldn't be possible to get out. What has happened since yesterday has once again shown us the importance of these reports, the value of all of us, and thankfully, these are the articles of the Civil Code. Mr. President, there's no need to attempt to enter through the chimney if the door was open last night. Again, I said, according to the Civil Code, that we could sort this out in the proper way. In my opinion, in fact, the incident has been resolved in a manner of speaking. After I looked at the reports yesterday and closed, I went through these transcripts in detail today. Hopefully, that's how the negotiations and procedures will go from here on out. Because Mr. Turan asked for the number of decisions, and I didn't hear them, but some of our friends heard them, and you heard them. But it must have been extremely accurate to confirm that from the reports. But I have a suggestion to the Justice and Development Party Group: you've seen how accurate and persistent this motion has been given by the Nationalist Movement Party. Let's not reject it in the vote anymore, let's accept it, then let's not jinx the bill. Yes, we're sorry about those procedures, too, but Mr. President is more upset. I'm sure he'll be more relaxed and more moral in the next procedure. That's all I have to say for now because I've decided to keep the time to a minimum, but we've talked for half a minute longer, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0233par0027	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Baluken, I'm not...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0234par0029	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, of course, the situation today is that we're human beings, that anyone can make a mistake. So there's no need to be so harsh, so heavy. But you have to look at it this way. So a motion from an opposition party since last night has been accepted several times, and this motion...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0235par0032	A negative motion.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0234par0033	...you insist on refusing to accept it, even though it involves only one word change. I mean, there's no sense of power like that. ▪ Everything the opposition says is wrong. On top of that, if you are more constructive from time to time, if you are in attitudes that relieve and reduce tension over every motion they make, they will not grow. I mean, there was a debate here last night about the procedure error of about 45 minutes, and the Deputy Speaker of Congress -- we put it in a separate location as well as the election of a woman of the AKP, and we care, but -- I understand we broke her heart a little bit in those harsh arguments. Today, though, we have tried to express that in the current law, our political criticism here can be hardened from time to time. But here it's all your fault, the ruling group. I mean, it wouldn't be a problem if you didn't insist on it since yesterday. Of course, I'd like to point out a different point here. So since yesterday, it's also been revealed how important the work done by the council workers here is. So, due to today's reports, we're going back from a possible error. But we haven't even been able to make partial corrections to the rights of the House workers who have worked so hard here. Last year, during the 24th Legislature, the Plan came back on the agenda during the budget talks this year. Although there have been serious problems with the rights of workers working at different positions in parliament, with their rights and working hours, with their rights and fees, unfortunately, political party groups have not been able to convince the ruling party. I mean, we haven't been able to solve a very small issue of our friends who work here for 24 hours, but look, in critical situations, it's come to light once again how critical it is that the council workers here are actually working for Congress. At least on this occasion, I hope the ruling party will reconsider, and we'll all sign up for a study that pleases the council workers. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0236par0038	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Lehte Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0237par0042	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have been promised to express my opinion in favour of the position of our president at the correcting point of the procedure hearing. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, similar mistakes have been made in the Parliament's work traffic from time to time in the past. The 13th article of the Civil Charter was carried out in a court of law. Here, a motion was made yesterday by the National Movement Party on Article 3 of the Third Amendment. In fact, we've given the Ministry a mandate to respond to judicial cooperation in cases that are not subject to what we see as our discretion, in terms of reciprocity, in terms of reciprocity, and in order to make it necessary, the National Movement Party may be considered under normal circumstances, but yesterday the General Assembly appreciated and rejected it. The motion's vote is today after yesterday's commission and administration proceedings have been completed. Now, as our esteemed President put this motion to the vote, since he did not specify the proceedings before him yesterday, he had us reread the motion to remind us that he should have actually submitted the motion to our votes, and we, as the General Assembly, voted on it. Then the examination of the reports revealed that this error was a human condition. And since yesterday, our esteemed President has been having a little trouble getting better at it. We're all human beings, there are these kinds of mistakes from time to time, and it's always possible to correct them within the framework of law, within the framework of legislation. The important thing is to be understanding at this point. And since this error has been corrected, the General Assembly here... in fact, what's important is that we are currently running this 13th article in order for the General Assembly to perform a healthy procedure. It's also important that it's run. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0238par0046	Thank you. Mr. Free Special against you. Please come in.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0239par0049	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. There's been an argument going on since last night. While the discussion may seem unnecessary at times, we now understand that it is very important to look at the reports, to take action according to the reports, to know what all the materials in the Civil Code mean and where they can be used. There is now the opportunity for the General Assembly, the group's views and the right way to conduct the procedure by opening a discussion of the procedure according to Article 13 of the Civil Code. Then there should be no reaction to the use of rights stemming from the Civil Code. Yesterday, Mr. Group Chairman of the Justice and Development Party, in fact, applied to protect the rights and law of its own group in a way that opposition parties often apply. Later in the night, a decision demanded a sufficient number, so that his motion would remain unrescinded for today. But this statement has not been heard by Mr. President, as it has happened to us many times in the past. Then the report was checked, it was confirmed that he was wanted, and there was a procedure done according to him. But there's a result of all this complicated work. We now know that if any of the groups demand the number of decisions enough, but at any given time, in the course of the voting -- if the parliamentary chair goes through this report, even if he doesn't hear it, we have a consensus and a established application that if this is determined by the objection, the number of decisions will be sought. In fact, once this issue came to power, which has always been a victim of opposition, but we can't talk about our problems, it came to a solution with the contribution of the ruling party. A lot of mistakes can be made. I don't think the President made a mistake last night, and I don't think he's making a mistake right now. If there's a mistake, it's possible for people to focus, to make healthy decisions. You can't say, "Why did you take a wrong turn, why did you fall asleep, why did you lose focus? " Responsibility there is your understanding that it forces you not to work under human circumstances. And you have to tell the ruling party that, look, law, equality, conscience, everybody needs a day. We're in such a mood that, for example, one day, if Mr. President, whom you love so much at work, is going to take 2 times 2/5/, you're in such a mood that one of you is going to come out and we're going to correct the historical error in the kerrat ruler. You're going to start to say, "You're going to start defending it."
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0240par0056	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0239par0057	That logic, that understanding, that brings us to an end. But the truth is one, and the truth is one. Our guide is the law, and we'll look at the scales of conscience when we make decisions. The end of partisanism can sometimes bring us to such difficult points. I thank the president for his understanding, and wish him success in his work.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0241par0060	Thank you very much. I wish this was the way all the arguments were going. I had this feeling once again that friendship is a good thing. Thank you again and again, all of you. Congressmans, since we should have voted on the third amendment, the will did not fully appear in the vote. So, under Article 13 of the Civil Code, I will repeat the motion's vote, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions. We will continue negotiations with the Bill of Law (278). Commission? Here. Government? Here. All those in favor of the motion... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 has been adopted according to the motion not accepted. Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a recommendation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey's Grand National Assembly's 96th anniversary and National Sovereignty and Children's Day are celebrated on April 23rd for a special meeting at the General Assembly in order to determine the meaning and significance of the day...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0242par0074	Mr. President, I need to make a contribution by apologizing. Let's not make another mistake after all this mayhem. Now, you've asked the government and the Commission, you've moved on to the negotiations of the law. There's no way we're going to put this to a vote before we're done with these law reviews.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0241par0076	There are many examples, Mr. Free Private.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0242par0077	Mr. President, no, I mean, before that, when the law is over.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0241par0078	Mr. Special, look, those with more experience than any of us in this matter, the Department of Decisions of Laws, and they present every procedure, every suggestion with its samples...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0242par0079	They're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0241par0080	...and we're doing this procedure here after we meet...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0242par0081	Sir, then let's do this...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0241par0082	...and something like this has been done.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0242par0083	Let's do this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0241par0084	How do we do this?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0242par0085	You guys go ahead with the process, the law talks. Let's see the Laws issue copies of past examples to groups. After all, this joint proposal will eventually be voted, but at the end of the night, but at the beginning. If there is, you'll do it before the next clause, but our legal logic doesn't see fit to do it by taking part in a process that has begun after the law has begun its talks.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0241par0086	I remember it being done.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0243par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0241par0088	Let me listen to you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0243par0089	Mr. President, there may be some friends who haven't followed the agenda very closely, so let the record show, I'll tell you. Mr. Deputy Director of the Group has just interrupted the Court's secretary's recommendation of the Council of Information Board, jointly signed all four parties, and the ceremony on April 23rd and our Parliament's Saturday at 14 p.m. It's an invitation for all parties to open at 00... it's not a very controversial, controversial issue. Therefore, there is no harm in reading it now, nor in reading it when you appreciate it. However, if it's about eating grapes and running the House, I think these kind of exits would be contrary to this General Assembly's general statement. Your appreciation.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0244par0092	Now, members of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0245par0093	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0244par0094	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0245par0095	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0244par0096	You all have your signatures on this advisory board proposal that I've submitted to your votes, which is why we see that we can vote at any stage when there's a joint advisory board proposal, which we've done, and it's done, and it's done. But, of course, we all know there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, no way, without a joint Council proposal. But there's a joint will statement here, and we've just voted to shut down this declaration of will, shut down the process, and take care of our business, and that's fine.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0245par0097	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0246par0098	Let's not, let's not, let's go to the law, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0247par0099	No, let's read it, Mr. President, let's vote on it.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0248par0100	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0249par0101	Mr. President, now, let's do this once...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0247par0102	So, shall we act according to Free Bey's wishes?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0249par0103	It's a shame!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0250par0104	Mr. Bronze, please, I'm listening to Mr. Free Private. Yes, Mr. Special...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0249par0106	Mr. President, under the counseling board's recommendation, there's no problem with that, a proposal signed by four parties. And we just made a mistake, and when we were fixing it, we put a figure on it. And according to my understanding, it's not right to submit a recommendation from the Council of Counsel after I've passed the law, asked the commission, voted the clause.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0250par0107	But I'm going to move on to a new clause, I'm going to set up a new procedure, so I'm not doing that during the motion vote. I've finished one process, and I'm going to do a second, new procedure. What's that? The 4th article.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0249par0108	Mr. President, let me say this one more time: it's not in the logic of life that I've witnessed and it's in my mind, but you can do what you want.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0251par0109	Mr. President, let's vote after the law, no problem.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0249par0110	If they bring in the samples, if there's anything we don't know, we'll find out. But I see it very wrong. Besides, it was April 23, I don't know, 23rd, sir, or... I can't describe the expression of Mr. Bulent Turan, as if we were saying something fundamentally when we were trying to prevent an error in the way.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0252par0112	Okay, guys, thank you so much. Okay, well, he's setting up samples, guys. Mr. Bostanci, please, I'd like to continue the process.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0253par0115	Mr. President, we can continue with the law, we can finally read it, fully appreciated.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0252par0116	Because I'm breaking down the same way your people are. You'll appreciate that I have to follow the paperwork and more than you do. Okay, he's bringing in samples, guys. Let us proceed to the reading of three motions in Article 4. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the "public order and the integrity of the nation" declaration, following the declaration of "other" after the "other" of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278, after the article (1) (a) "public order" (a) incumbent. Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Tahsin Tarhan Selina Doğan Mehmet Gökdağ Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that "economic, social and political" be added after the declaration of "nation and nation integrity', "after the declaration of "other" of "economic, social and political," and that the 4th article of the International Adjective Co-operation Act (a) shall be changed before the "public order" of the Article (1) (a) at the end of the article. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir Baki Simsek Kamil Aydın Mustafa Kalaycı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article (1) (c) be replaced by Article 4 of the International Law on Adli Co-operation on Criminal Issues 278, which are currently in session. The question is that there are convincing reasons why a person, ethnicity, sexual orientation and gender identity, a certain social group, will be subject to an investigation or prosecution due to their views, or will be punished or subjected to abuse. İdris Baluken Merkel Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Çağlar Demirel Behçet Yıldırım Ahmet Yıldırım Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0254par0140	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0252par0141	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0255par0142	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0252par0143	Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0256par0146	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Dear workers of the General Assembly, I thank you for your hard work. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the International Co-operation Act on Criminal Matters and Article 4 of the Justice Commission Report. You know how we call it international co-operation and obedience to international law, Mr. President, I'd like to start by telling you about a trial in Gaziantep? You know, a few months ago, the German NDR and SWR Canals announced that the women held by ISIS had been released from the Internet, that one of the sales offices was in Gaziantep. In videos broadcast by these channels and many digital channels and digital data, Ezidi women and girls who were driven to the slave market were clearly seen. On this occasion, Gaziantep Association of Advanced Women and the Gaziantep Bar have filed a criminal complaint to investigate the incident. The police department raided this office at the inn in question. I note that $370,000 of foreign passports were seized in this raid, as well as a $1,768-page Arabic receipt for the transfer of millions of dollars between Turkey and Syria. The first hearing was held at 31/12/2015, immediately in 15/01/2016, 15/01/2016, after the second hearing 15 days later. Dear President, despite all this data in this hearing, six Syrian citizens arrested for this incident have been released for lack of evidence. Those who were released for lack of evidence... unfortunately, the Arabic translation of the receipts of the 1.768-page transfer that I just gave the number to was given on 25/01/2016, ten days after the court ruled. You see, we follow international law, and when it comes to it, we can't interfere with the courts. The courts are independent, they make their decisions. Those who say that they have been detained in Gaziantep since June 7 have been on trial and have been imprisoned for months with no criminal evidence, while those of the state are acquitted for lack of evidence. Dear friends, today is the Day of Sorday of Ezidi to the Wednesday of our people. On this occasion, I congratulate you on the holiday of our people. I wish for the salvation of all communities, of all peoples, of this persecution, of this persecution of the State. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0257par0153	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0258par0155	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit08spe0257par0156	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0257par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul and his friends on Article 4 of the Law Bill 278. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission is here. The government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that the country and nation integrity's declaration be added after the declaration of the International Adliation Act on Criminal Co-operation Act No. 278, and that the clause at the end of the article be changed before the article (1) (a) is declared. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0259par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0257par0014	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0260par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0257par0016	Mr Mustafa Kalaycı will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0261par0019	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The regulation of the matter we are discussing determines the conditions in which foreign states can be denied their request for judicial cooperation. Among these are the violations of Turkey's sovereignty rights and national security, but emphasises, such as the integrity of the country and the nation, and violation of other basic interests in the matter, need to clarify the expression. In addition, the deniable expression at the end of the matter makes the matter meaningless and gives the initiative to accept the conditions mentioned in the matter. Because it may not be rejected, which means it's acceptable. Mr. Secretary, it's not your concern, but you're sitting there, I'll ask you. What is your purpose? Did you miss it, or is that what you're doing on purpose? Do you intend to accept demands involving violations of our national security? You're going to cooperate with strangers in demands that will bring a successor to our sovereignty rights? This arrangement will never be acceptable. This error must be corrected, and it can be denied, and it must be changed into denial. It's the anniversary of the day when the kingdom began to be used by our beloved nation. On Saturday, we will realize the 96th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I pray to God that the 96th anniversary of April 23, 1920 was a blessing. I remember with mercy and gratitude all the mebuses of the First Assembly, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who entrusted us with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the founder heroes and our noble martyrs who willingly put their lives on the line for the safety of our country. Dear MPs, despite the depressing conditions of the occupation of the Grand National Assembly, our great nation, who had no choice but to live independently, was born like the sun of hope in the stone building of Ulalin. On April 23, 1920, nationalist heroes who were only strong from the nation, excited by the presence of the nation, and reluctant to keep the nation alive were organized, rapidly and patiently organized. It was presented at the opening of the House, where the national struggle was based above all on legitimacy and the will of the nation. We know that the first Parliament is a democratic platform, a place of prayer, and a unique epic tale of freedom for the Turkish nation, believing and making the nation believe in salvation. Participation in the first legislature is a hallmark and masterpiece of a nationality glow that makes pluralism and democratic spirit nation subject. This national participation and national representation concern will be the basis of our national sovereignty, national will and democratic culture, which will find shape and meaning in our republic in later years. Our national struggle has achieved success, primarily with deep commitment to the independence of the Turkish nation, and then under the leadership and leadership of the Grand National Assembly. Turkey, with special care and merit, is the brain and heart of the national struggle until our Grand National Assembly of Turkey, completely free from the occupation and the Turkish nation's independence, and therefore has earned the full title of veteran. Sadly, in recent years, our national unity has been trying to break down, destroy our national identity. A thousand years of deep brotherhood law, which we should very carefully quash, is wanted to be wasted in the hands of ethnic opportunists. What we must never forget today is that the national values that our founding heroes and our noble ancestors leave to us, with their blood and their lives, will not be abandoned or compromised in any way. The indivisible integrity of our country, the unitary structure of our state, the honor, dignity and unity of the Turkish nation are from the red lines of the Veteran Assembly and will not be violated. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0262par0028	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the "public order and the integrity of the nation" declaration, following the declaration of "other" after the "other" of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278, after the article (1) (a) "public order" (a) incumbent. Murat Amir (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0263par0035	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0262par0036	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0264par0037	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0262par0038	Ankara MP Murat Emir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0265par0041	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. The 4th article, which I have been promised, considers situations in which the demands of judicial cooperation of foreign states can be rejected. There are concepts of public order, such as other basic interests of the state, that the AKP (AKP) often misunderstands. When we say the basic interests of the state, we understand something else, but you understand something else. If you're making this arrangement to cover up the December 17th-25 investigation to the U.S., the arrested and tried by the U.S. government, not to give the documents, the information the U.S. government wants, then there's no looting, there's no vanity, there's two hands on you, and we're going to be following this case. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) So, like the other main interests of the state, we deny that you refuse to cooperate in your own pocket, due to the concepts that you often interpret in your own interest. Dear friends, it is unfortunate that sexual orientation has not been counted among those mentioned. See, this is part of the public order, a paper that international law has imposed on us, and therefore international judicial cooperation is required. But you know, like Iran, sexual orientation differences in countries like the United Arab Emirates are a serious crime, although that's not a crime in our country, and since it's considered a public order, it should never, ever be co-operated with these countries, and that law must have been deregulated. But you, despite our insistence on the Law on Human Rights, which we took out earlier last week, you've actually given away the perspective on the back of your head, not taking sex orientation as a cause of discrimination. Again, we keep counting: military crime, crime of thought, political crime, of course, when it's a crime of thought, one wants to be proud, Turkey will not give information, documents to countries whose freedom of thought is in itself. But they say to him, "Go back to your own country, is there a crime of thought in your country or not?" Dear friends, speaking of which, we never accept insults to our President on a German television the other day, and we can never judge that as an expression of thought, and we strongly deny that, but we also have to wait for the same justice founder, Mustafa Kemal the Great. Look, I'd like to give you a little quote from the text that RTUK said might not be a problem. This is a statement that should hurt your conscience: they reign like Pharaohs, eat, drink, vomit. Lots of money, private cars, yachts. Pleasure, entertainment. Hit it, blow it, play it. Every day is a holiday, every day is a day. Let him who is left behind die. They said Mustafa Kemal. Does that make any sense to you?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0266par0047	Where did Mustafa Kemal come from?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0265par0048	Look, RTÜK didn't find any crime in this, so he called it an expression of thought. Well, what would Bu Tayyip Erdogan have said if he had been told, what would have been done if he had been told? I'm really curious about your assessments, but we're curious about the evaluations on your conscience. Members of parliament, Turkey has serious violations of thought crimes. Therefore, they must be organized in accordance with international standards. See, the Turkish Penal Code has its 299th famous article. So far, more than 1,800 cases have been filed against the President for insulting him. You know, there's even a 13-year-old kid. While we regret that the age of drug use has reduced to 13 years old, you, our Ministry of Internal Affairs, our court office, is taking 13-year-old children into custody, taking them into custody, and it appears that they've been following the police for nine months. A country like this has a crime of thought in your country, so I'm not sending you information. Is he allowed to say that? The 301st article, for example, is a complete freak, highly uncertain. Whoever you don't want, whoever you want to squeeze, whoever's against it, you judge, arrest, and drag. With that understanding, I'd like to extend my regards to the General Assembly in hopes that Turkey's sharing of the judiciary will be a country that has removed the crime of thought, which will not share the guilt of thought.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0267par0055	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0268par0058	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0267par0059	There's only one request for roll call that I submit the motion to your votes. Let's make our diagnosis, please. Mr. Special, Mr. Akkaya, Mr. Emir, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Gülcuoğlu, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Emre, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Çam, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Aldan. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278 rankings that are being discussed is 5. We propose and propose that the clause in (1) shall be changed to "laws in this law and other laws." İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir Bakı Simsek Kamil Aydın Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278 rankings that are being discussed is 5. Article 1 of the article. We provide and propose that the word "international" be added at the beginning of his joke. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Meral Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Behçet Yıldırım Ahmet Yıldırım The signatures of the other motion are of the same nature: Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Tahsin Tarhan Selina Doğan Mehmet Gökdağ Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0269par0094	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0267par0095	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0270par0096	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0267par0097	Mr. Serdal Welcuoğlu will be the first to speak on the motions. Here you go, Mr. Wellercuoglu.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0271par0100	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs will celebrate the 96th year of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which we are under the roof of in the coming days. I stand before you to express my thoughts about this important day. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, on April 23, 1920, were also the most important steps by the Great Leader, who founded and took the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation on its way to independence against the imperialist forces. If we can sit comfortably in these seats today, we owe it to Ataturk. On this occasion, I once again remember him with gratitude, respect, and gratitude. On the grounds of our martyrs, I also condemn this year's annual reception at the Turkish Grand National Assembly and the cancellation of the children's holiday, and I also condemn the president of parliament's refusal to allow the event that CHP wants to have with children in parliament. It should be known that we all have our hearts set on the martyrs who are given almost every day, that the grief of their families is the sadness of all of us. I think it's the wishes of our martyrs and left-behind families to celebrate this holiday for our children to be united by the feelings of love and brotherhood, to develop the sense of sovereignty and independence. Today is a day for our children to forget more about love, brotherhood, unity, unity, and many ugly events in recent days than about a day of entertainment. We don't spend days in our country over the last few years, so we don't get news of child death, abuse and abuse. Instead of going over these events, punishing the responsible the most severely, making the necessary legal changes, we cancel the children's holidays. Dear lawmakers, there have been huge increases in the rights of children, protected by national and international legislation, such as housing, health, education, social and cultural rights, especially the right to live in our country every year. Now, I'd like to share with you some data from our country about our children whose holidays we canceled. According to the report of the Migration and Humanitarian Aid Foundation in our country, 6,418 children were violated in 2015, while 703 of the children lost their lives and 1,081 children were injured. Again, that same year, 3,897 children were unable to benefit from the juvenile justice system. The report, which has more detailed data, shows the grave picture of our country in terms of children. Instead of giving our children holiday cheer, we are shaken by daily harassment, rape, death, and so forth from various parts of our country. The most dangerous thing is that these events begin to seem normal in the eyes of society. The reason for this is the lack of penalties, the protection and protection of institutions or institutions that have caused these events to occur at the highest level, preventive and deterrent measures. The Commission, established to investigate child abuse -- first rejected by the ruling party -- should act objectively and prevent the abuses of our children. Dear friends, I'd like to share with you just two paragraphs of Canadian Mayor toronto, John Tory,'s invitation to an event on the city's website on April 23rd. The event was hosted by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of the Republic of Turkey, to the world's children on April 23, 1920. Toronto is known as a cultural mosaic where different ethnic and cultural groups can live together in harmony and tolerance. Events such as Children's Day combine ethnic and cultural traditions between communities and promote multiculturalism and strengthen unity with brotherhood, love, friendship." Says the mayor of Toronto, Canada. We are canceling the celebration of the only Children's Day in the world. Dear MPs, as CHP, we will perform all kinds of events in accordance with the meaning and significance of this day and even the importance of the week because we love our children who are our future. I consider the April 23rd National Sovereignty and Children's Day celebrations, which the Ancestors gave them, to be their most natural rights, to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0272par0109	Thank you. The other speaker of the same motions is Mardin MP Gülser Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0273par0113	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. I've made a commitment to the International Co-operation Act on Criminal Matters. There are so many deep wounds in our country and other cities in this country right now that I wanted to share it here as a priority. As a Mardin MP, our friends may have expressed what happened in our region many times on these platforms, but unfortunately these voices were never heard; as if the ears were deaf, as if they were blind, we are faced with an application, a mental state that doesn't want to see all these sufferings. Look, I'd like to share a few examples of Mardinn MPs here with the MPs who came here as deputies of the nation. You know, Nusaybin was already facing a blockade, with an actual practice, about eight months away. A curfew and blockade that entered its last 7th and 38th day is now being bombed on Nusaybin, with its tank, with its cannon, with its rifle, with thousands of JSH, with its PSH. Isn't Nusaybin a district of this country, friends? Does Mardin, Nusaybin, Cizre, Cleopatra, Şırnak mean nothing to you? The pain that's happening here, the civilians who have been killed here, the children who have died under the name of terror, the women who have been murdered, the houses that have been destroyed, don't they ever appeal to your conscience? Look, when we're talking here, you can say, "Why is there terror?" So let's give you an answer to this: why would you choose the way to suppress a people's most legitimate demands of freedom, demands of equality, existence, truth, identity, language, blood, tank, or army, when you're about to be solved with dialogue, when you're about to be solved with dialogue? You have to ask from here. If there were a sincere stance in the mindset of the AKP government and in this mindset of the state, which is now in the service of the AKP, to resolve the Kurdish problem, today its policy in Rojava would prefer peace with all other peoples by choosing its neighbour as Kurds, not by feeding him in Rojava.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0274par0118	What peace are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0273par0119	The peace of existence. Look, the AKP government has the most use of faith. This is where I ask the true believers: His faith, his faith, was true to God, and he would approach all the differences that were created by God without monotheism. He deserved his faith, his religion, his faith, his conscience, and other differences as much as his right to himself, and he saw them equal. He respected their existence, their religion, their identity. So let me ask you this: how's this pickle, how's this cabbage?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0275par0121	Ha, bravo, I'll have to ask you that!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0273par0122	If you mock my Turkish, friends, I'm Kurd, my native language is Kurdish.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0276par0123	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0275par0124	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0277par0125	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0278par0126	What does that have to do with anything? What do you object to?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0279par0127	Here's the thing, guys: I can't use Turkish well.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0278par0128	You drive well, you relax.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0279par0129	But I'll tell you something else -- look, I'm running out of time -- look, right now, the applications in Nusaybin...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0280par0131	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0279par0132	Mr. President, they're taking it out on me, so I need a minute to say the last two sentences.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0280par0134	I can't give it to you. I'm sorry. It would be unfair to other friends.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0281par0135	Mr. President, you can discriminate against women.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0280par0136	Okay, I'll give it to you in a minute. Okay. Let's not make an example of it.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0282par0137	Look, lastly, I'll give you two examples: Despite all these practices, you took the governor's authority and handed him over to the military, even though the governor was given unlimited authority. There's martial law in there, but we don't know? By what law have you now handed over such authority to the military? Another procedure: have they been accounted for, despite all the civilians who were killed?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0283par0139	Terrorists, they're terrorists!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0284par0140	They're terrorists, no civilians.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0285par0141	Don't talk to each other, please...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0286par0142	You've become so unconscionable that you call children and women terrorists, it's such a reality.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0284par0143	There are no civilians there.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0286par0144	In other words, as a governor's pleasure, he can ban any action, activity, on the street for a month. What law is this based on? Even the slightest press release is now forbidden in Mardin, and two people are not allowed to meet.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0287par0145	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0286par0146	We're dealing with a Parliament that doesn't feel all this, but history will write it on its own leaves.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0288par0148	Welcome! Welcome to the mountain!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0289par0149	Thank you. Mr. Yıldırım, no one has the right to mock your tongue and dialect, so please know. No one in this House has the luxury of doing such a thing, and they do not act like it, and this Court will never allow it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0290par0153	Mr. President, this is not important to me.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0289par0154	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 5 of the International Criminal Co-operation Act on Article 278 in the current criminal issues under which the declaration of "in the law and other laws" shall be changed." Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0291par0160	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0289par0161	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0292par0162	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0289par0163	Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0293par0166	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the MHP on the amendment motion for Article 5 of Law Bill 278. I hereby salute your high council with love and respect. Dear lawmakers, international judicial co-operation is defined as a whole of the operations carried out by the state's authorities on behalf of other state's judicial authorities, including the extradition of criminals, the age of investigation and prosecution, the age of execution, and the transfer of prisoners. To fight crime and criminals more effectively, our country has signed contracts with more than ten countries and bilateral co-operation agreements with many countries, especially the United States. Today, these contracts and bilateral agreements also involve judicial cooperation with many states. Many of the international contracts signed by our country are related to organised and metaphorically emotional relations, such as anti-corruption, terrorism, bribery, black money, drug trafficking, and organised crime that cross the border. In my five minutes of conversation here, I'm just going to talk about the bribe. The point is that national and international bribery, smuggling, money laundering may not be possible. But what's important here is the determination and zeal to fight a decisive fight on this road. I am a thief. His understanding is never acceptable. Especially when representatives of a faith that curses the land and the giver want to cover up allegations of corruption and theft with their finger accounts, it's not something that can ever be forgiven in this world or in the kingdom. Dear lawmakers, do you believe that during the trial process in Turkey, the Justice Department, which has been sentenced to death in Iran as a close colleague of Reza Sarraf, who had been arrested for various crimes in the United States last night, admitted that the commission distributed in Turkey was $8.5 billion in the media, and that the International Adli Co-operation Act in Criminal Matters was discussed at this time? After me, another congressman asked a similar question. The question is exactly as your property, Iran's Islamic State sentenced Babek Zencani to death and said that during this interrogation, he was handing out $8.5 billion in bribes in Turkey, and that one minister had 7 per thousand shares in it. Did this come up during the Iranian President's visit to Turkey? Have you wondered, who was this bribe distributed to? Would you consider sharing this with the High Council, sir? The answer given to the MP by Mr. Secretary is exactly the same as the Minister who interviewed the committees, and it certainly didn't come up, so let's submit it to the information of our friends. These answers show that there has been no mention of Babek Zencani, who has declared that $8.5 billion in bribes have been distributed in Turkey and who has been sentenced to death by his actions. So I'm asking Mr. Secretary: is $7.5 billion, allegedly distributed in Turkey, 7.5 quadrillion small, no need to be investigated, no need to investigate? Would it have been done if Zencani Reza Sarraf had not been guilty? Is it the right approach not to pursue such a claim? Why would you sign international contracts, bilateral agreements if you weren't going to go through with this? Then I say we don't need that law. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to remind you again. Our most high religion is Islam, and maintain justice, even if it be against yourselves, or your parents, or your kinsmen, and do not obey your desires, and if you turn away, then Allah knows what you do. So basically, he says don't shut up about injustice. No position, no position is for anyone. Those who are involved in bribery, theft, corruption, money launderers, corrupters, bribes, black money, theft, fraud investigations will eventually account for them. Citizens, do not lie down in front of the palaces. Ask around. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0294par0172	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 6 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the indictment or prosecution or execution of Article 6 of the International Court of Adli Co-operation Act (I.E.) of the International Court of Co-operation Act (I.E.) in Article 278, which is currently in session, shall be replaced as the investigation, prosecution, or execution. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to add the word "International" to the head of Article 6 of the International Adli Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Meral Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Behçet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 6 of the International Adulteration Act on Criminal Issues 278, which are currently being discussed in the following way. Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Tahsin Tarhan Selina Doğan Mehmet Gökdağ Information and documents from international co-operation cannot be used except for investigation or transfer or execution, which is subject to the request, unless sent by the state. Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0295par0200	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0294par0201	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0296par0202	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0294par0203	İstanbul MP Gülay Basci will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0297par0206	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the High Council with respect and love. A very important case has been filed in our country today. There was a hearing at the Ensar Foundation about the children who were raped. Now, there's been a strange trial, and then there's the situation that we're all worried about. Because we're there, of course... these events can happen in any kind of society. But the important thing is the attitude to take when such an event happens, the government that governs the government, what the government is doing, what the government is doing. We're looking, Mr. Secretary in charge of the family. We know about the Ensar Foundation and its work. We know that foundation. So he's saying that we know those perverts. For him, it doesn't matter to us. We expected the Minister of the Family to take care of the children and their family, not the foundation.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0298par0210	How many times has he said it?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0297par0211	Sir, we'll take care of those children from the Minister of the Family. We'll take care of the parents. Have you ever heard him say that?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0298par0213	We heard it, he said it here.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0297par0214	How do you talk about it? Kids first. Why are you doing politics?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0299par0215	Ladies and gentlemen of the House...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0297par0216	If you can't do it, you'll resign. The Minister of the Family must resign. The Minister of the Family must resign. He should resign now, today. We have nothing more precious than children. You're a mother, you're a father. Turkey has begun to evolve elsewhere. In the last ten years, 250,000 children have been sexually abused, 250,000 children. Well, let's look at the numbers in Turkey, and we're looking at the numbers from the government, from the state. One out of four people are depressed. There's a 678 percent increase in drug addiction. Ten-year-old drug abuse age. 790 percent increase in prostitution. Well, in Turkey, you're spending more money on the Ministry of Religious Affairs in charge of religion and morality than on the Ministry, you're budgeting. What are you doing with that money besides buying Mercedes? What is it you do?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0300par0219	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0297par0220	When morality is broken in a country, there's a lot of trouble in that country. But you're interested in other things. The state of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0301par0221	We're building a bridge.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0297par0222	Those bridges always lead to your house. Sir, you're doing everything you can to stain our Supreme Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the Republic of Turkey. You mobilized the pool media as it was. And you're using TRT clearly. Everywhere your men are talking to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades. From here, we make it clear that you cannot erase the love of Ataturk in our nation's heart, nor can you erase the great leadership, the success, of Ataturk, who is the ruler of these centuries. [[A round of applause from CHP rows; from the lines of the AK PARTY, don't buy in!]] You're talking nonsense, it's empty! You don't want to celebrate April 23rd. Why don't you want it? Look, authority belongs to the nation unconditionally. He gave the National Day of Sovereignty to the children.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0302par0228	Line up!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0297par0229	Why are you giving concerts if you don't want to celebrate our martyrs? Why do you do events? You always have an excuse. You didn't want to celebrate October 29th. Two years ago, you insulted and assaulted the party group that I was in. October 29th, May 19th, April 23rd, in spite of you, we will celebrate forever. This country is the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Ataturk. It will always be. Because it's a 90-year-old commercial break. What you call it is a memory of Ataturk. We don't call it 90 years of advertising, we call it the memory of Ataturk, and we call it the giant with blond hair and blue eyes, not the tall man.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0303par0231	Why are you so uncomfortable with the tall guy?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0297par0232	This structure, of course, has these consequences. The pregnant woman cannot wander the streets. A 6 - year - old child can be married.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0303par0233	Why is the tall man bothering you?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0297par0234	We're fighting this mentality, we're against this mentality, and we're going to resist.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0304par0235	Keep up the good work.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0297par0236	I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0305par0238	The people chose the tall man. Look, it's written right there, people. The people chose the tall man, people!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0306par0239	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0307par0240	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0306par0241	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0307par0242	Mr. President, for the record, our children are more valuable than anything.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0308par0243	I hope...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0307par0244	Our children are more precious than anything. We show it everywhere and in every way. The Minister of the Family does not disagree either, and the government and the AK PARTY Group agree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0309par0245	But I'll be fine once in a while!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0307par0246	I'm sure the speaker will be pleased with my explanation.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0310par0247	If the Minister can explain it.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0307par0248	On the other hand, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is the founder of the Republic of Turkey. We have no negative attitude towards Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the republic. On the contrary, the EC PARTY has always been honored to be a political will of its attempt to crown the republic with democracy.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0310par0249	Don't cast a shadow, no more favors.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0307par0250	In this context, the tall man and the blond-haired, blue-eyed man are on the same road. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0311par0253	Thank you. Yes, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the word "International" to the head of the 6th and (2) of the 6th article of the International Criminal Co-operation Act of the International Adjective Act on Article 278. Mehmet Emin Adıyaman (Iğdır) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0312par0260	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0311par0261	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0313par0262	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0311par0263	Mr Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on the motion, İğdır MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0314par0266	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a promise on the 6th Amendment of the law. Article 6 of the Law is that documents from the country which is co-operative will be used in the field of investigation, prosecution and execution, and there are exceptions to that. These were about the change of criminal status and the emergence of a new situation, that documents could be used if new defendants were to appear. It's not really something that needs to be discussed, but I think it's something that protects or protects the accused. Because it determines the scope of the investigation or the scope of the prosecution. In fact, what I'd like to express here, or what I'd like to talk about... is the extent of the concept of the war, which has been brutally practiced since July 24, 2015, perhaps, outside the dimension of what's often expressed on this bench. Yes, cities are falling, evacuated, hundreds of our civilian people slaughtered. In addition, there is another dimension in the region, in which political genocide operations and the Constitution itself are on the agenda of an illegal practice, which is actually beyond martial law, which eliminates the conditions of martial law under the extraordinary conditions of 121 and 122. Especially in areas where the city and city sieges have not been implemented -- perhaps not many -- but as of the season, there's also one problem that's very recent -- now, for example, in areas like Kars, Ağrı, Erzurum, Van, Bitlis -- people who will leave the village, town, town, town, town, town, and live on foot with their animals. However, as I have just mentioned, there are private security zones in the region that exceed 160-170 areas or restricted areas based on the authority given to governors from the City Administration Act. Now, these forbidden plateaus are a land that, as of the season, can feed their animals for much less than five months, six months, or so during the summer season, when our citizens are actually working on livestock. In these areas, there are people who are actually interested in private property. For example, friends, let me give you an example of Iğdır, who is only a scholar. You know, Iğdır is considered the Çukurova of the east; Iğdır is a province of farmland and agriculture, but in the summer months, animals have to get out of the plain. For example, the number of small animals is about 800,000, and the number of cattle is about 90 thousand. Now, these pedestrians, such as Kars, Ağrım, Erzurum, who live on livestock in Iğdır, are on foot, but can't go to these plateaus. This means that if our citizens don't go out on foot, the curfew of the pedestrians, our citizen's concept of terrorism is to be punished all under his name, and the only option remains: If they can't feed on the plain, then they face a situation like selling their animal to meat processing, meat production, company complexes at all costs. I demand that the government, as of the season itself, resolve this issue, lift its ban on pedestrians, respect the right to travel and property, end these arbitrary practices. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0315par0274	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the indictment or prosecution or execution of Article 6 of the International Court of Adli Co-operation Act (I.E.) of the International Court of Co-operation Act (I.E.) in Article 278, which is currently in session, shall be replaced as the investigation, prosecution, or execution. Kamil Aydın (Erzurum) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0316par0281	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0315par0282	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0317par0283	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0315par0284	On the motion, Mr. Kamil Aydın of Erzurum will speak. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0318par0287	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding the 6th Amendment. I salute the High Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish that the blessed Birth Week, which was sent as a mercy to all the worlds, and that the divine principles and commandments of the Prophetullah, which he tried to live by, in accordance with its purpose, should be a blessing to all mankind, to our fellow nation, and to our nation. Dear lawmakers, what we need to really see and understand is the truth that hurts our hearts in order to be justified or based on corruption, where there are excesses in existence and absence. In the beginning comes the violence of terror and the abuse of our children as a result of negligence and favours. In this sense, all authorities, especially the Religious Works, must draw attention to both atrocities without any concern. In carrying out this mission, the word of God, the right and the truth, should not always be afraid and concerned about the direction of political will, because the door of knowledge, as Hazret Ali put it, is the son of your friend, but the mind of the world and material possessions cannot show determination and determination to object to injustice and inadequacy. Therefore, in apocalypse consciences, as a great man stands at the table of Sultan, the conquest of the whole world is ineffective. It can't go beyond that. Dear lawmakers, in our political literature, there is a concept of selectiveness in perception, which we all use from time to time. Unfortunately, we see that 14 to 15 years of power add another concept to that, and it's becoming selective in perception, as well as in judgment. Unfortunately, when we look at it today, we feel that the judiciary is also selective. We're not the only ones with political opinions. In international platforms, and in reports, we see clearly in some of the practices that we have to meet, as well as in the terms of agreements and agreements that we have to fulfill, so to make it more concrete, Turkey is on the side of the United Nations Anti-Corruption Conventions, and the unfairness of property of public officials has been subject to punishment. The application's first review document was published in June. Turkey has signed and approved the OECD Convention on the prevention of private law contracts against corruption and International Trade Operations to Foreign Public Officials, but unfortunately, Turkey's note is not good when we look at OECD reports in this context today. In both the United Nations and the European Parliament and the OECD reports, especially in the process, which began with the Lighthouse, and continued with December 17th-25th, and in the judicial process that we are in today, Turkey is not in a position to fulfil its obligations or to act in accordance with the agreements it has signed. And how do we know that? It's very comfortable, we're looking at a few applications. Indeed, we bear witness that many later rich people will give in the Court's reports, sir, that the tax slices he owes have been erased in a pen. Now, we just made a quick statement. Dear MPs, we can't have a more important principle than truth and truth, and we can't have a more important motto. But unfortunately, we're repeating it over and over again, our commitment to individuals, to political trends, so blinding us to the truth and to the truth. But once again, I end my words with the words of Lord Ali: 'In the name of your friend, son, I say to you, 'Good evening,' and to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0319par0293	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 7 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the word "adjudgmentable" taken at the end of Article 7 of the International Adulteration Act (2) of the Criminal Co-operation Act on Article 278, which is currently in session. Çağlar Demirel İdris Balaken Merkel Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Behçet Yıldırım Ahmet Yıldırım Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the application of the International Code of Adli co-operation in the 278 rows in which it is being discussed will be added under the terms of the application of the Article 7 (e.g. after the declaration of the transactions in my hand). İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir Baki Simsek Kamil Aydın Mehmet Parsak Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 7th Article of the International Criminal Co-operation Act of the International Adjective Act (C) and (c) benchmarks be replaced in the following way. Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Tahsin Tarhan Selina Doğan Mehmet Gökdağ The request for international co-operation can be requested to be present during the implementation of the matter. ) The procedures carried out in accordance with the internal law of the state concerned as part of the international request for legal aid also apply to Turkish law. Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0320par0320	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0319par0321	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0321par0322	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0319par0323	Mr Mustafa Akadın will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Akadun.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0322par0326	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you about the high-profile lawmakers, the personality disorders of politicians and senior executives. Honourable lawmakers mean personality disorder, subjective distress and/or harmonisation disorder that goes with professional functional disorder. It is estimated that the world population has a personality disorder of about 5 to 20 per cent. Narcissistic personality disorder, which has often been expressed recently and is assumed to be high in politicians, is one of the most important disorders in personality disorders. Until recently, it was estimated to be 1 per cent per cent in the American population, but it was estimated to reach up to 6 to 7 per cent from the 2000s. In Greek mythology, Narkissosa, who is in love with his reflection in the water, is a form of personality disorder that has taken that name, meaning someone who is in love with himself. Narkissos looks at the water, looks at the water, falls in love with himself, eventually falls into the water and dies. According to mythology, a flower grows from this water, and this flower is named after the flower..nergis. So that's where the daffodil flower comes from. In addition to politicians, it has been noted that authorities are common in invaders, university staff, surgeons, lawyers, and dictators. World psychiatrists have described nine criteria used in the diagnosis of that disease under the name DSM-IV. First of all...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0323par0328	There's no need to look away for the sample.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0322par0329	I'm not touching anyone, I'm just telling them the scientific data I've been passing on from literature. Please don't pick on me. Take it wherever you want.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0323par0330	Like a mirror, a mirror. It's a perfect fit!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0324par0331	Mr. Bronze, please...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0322par0332	Please, Congressman... Will you shut him up, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0324par0334	Mr. Akadun, please address the General Assembly and do not respond. Mr. Bronze, please...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0322par0336	It's unique, it's unique, it's more important than anyone, it's a declaration of infinite power, intelligence, beauty, talent.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0325par0337	What does that have to do with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0326par0338	Why do you bother? It has a lot to do with the motion.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0327par0339	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0328par0340	It's got a lot to do with the motion, so I'm going to tie it up, so let me.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0327par0341	Mr. Akadun, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0328par0342	Don't expect to be known with divine power, admire yourself, demand for constant approval, imagine you have the right to do everything, believe you're the one to be favoured, don't use someone else's weaknesses for his own benefit, empathy -- I can't do it in Turkish -- envy the successful, don't think everyone's jealous of him...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0329par0343	That's right!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0328par0344	Don't be arrogant and arrogant.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0330par0345	It's what it looks like.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0328par0346	These are literature, I'm not adding them, guys. At least five of these nine criteria are diagnosed with narcissistic personality disorder if one person has one.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0331par0347	You're describing yourself.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0328par0348	The narcissistic person thinks everything he does is perfect, insensitive to criticism and fragile.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0332par0349	Teacher, you're running out of time. Explain the motion and maybe we can vote.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0328par0350	It's considered safe, but there's a lack of self-esteem in the background. In childhood, it is thought to have been caused by dysfunction in their relationship with parents. It is assumed that there is a history of abuse by parents. Narcissistic personality disorder is also associated with antisocial personality disorder, paranoia, and psychopathic personality. The other name of the coin is megalomania, self - worth, and there is a sense of inferiority in the background - Caesars, Pharaohs, dictators. Excessive people, expensive homes, workplaces, and luxury car addiction, the tendency to overreact to criticism, ridicule, humor.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0332par0351	What was the motion about? What was your motion, would you explain the motion? Explain the motion, maybe we can vote for it.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0328par0352	Their greatest fear is the loss of power, they feed on praise, they hate space, they can easily get depressed, their success graphics can be high because they're ambitious, and their leadership positions can lead to disaster.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0333par0353	You only have a beer festival! The Antalyas have taught you a lesson!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0328par0354	Friends, narcissistic personality disorder is very difficult to treat, and they don't require medical aid because they don't admit they're sick. There are examples of dictators like Napoleon, Hitler, Himmler. Stalin, Kim Jong-il, Mengele, Paris Hilton and Donald Trump are also expressed in popular culture today. WAFF...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0334par0355	Your time is up.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0328par0356	Since there's been a lot of interference, I'm gonna need another half a minute.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0335par0358	I can't, I'm sorry, please...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0328par0359	A few years ago, he was in a politician in Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...said in a world forum, we don't want you to... My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0336par0364	What in God's name have you been talking about? What the hell did you guys talk about? What was your motion, your motion! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0337par0365	Thank you, Mr. Akaydun. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0338par0367	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit09spe0337par0368	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0337par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of Antalya MP Mustafa Akayd and his friends' motion on the 7th article of the Law Bill 278 rows. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission is here. The government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the application of the International Code of Adli co-operation in the 278 rows in which it is being discussed will be added under the terms of the application of the Article 7 (e.g. after the declaration of the transactions in my hand). Mehmet Parsak (Afyonkarahisar) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0339par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0337par0014	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0340par0015	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0337par0016	Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0341par0019	I have received our pledge as the National Movement Party on the 7th Article of the International Adulteration Act on Criminal Co-operation Act (I.A.) in Article 278. On this occasion, I salute the Veterans' House. Before I begin with my words about our proposal, I pray to God that today's Happy Birth Week, which we are living on, is a blessing. The Lord Muhammad, our Prophet, was born with many miracles, his presence illuminated the world and transformed all ugliness into beauty. Mankind has established great civilizations in accordance with the high values and principles that come with it, realizing its rights lost, and the pleasure of being equal in the presence of God and the world. Knowing the value of this unique value offered to us, we need to be guided by his honesty, compassion, justice, and protection over people, persecution, and all challenges. With these feelings and thoughts, our beloved Prophet Muhammad our Lord, wishes that the messages delivered to all mankind be understood, lived, lived, and to be united, united and united in the name of our country, and to celebrate the Holy Birth Week of the entire Islamic world. Dear lawmakers, the 7th article of the bill I have been promised is to hold judicial requests for the conclusion of the trial under the request of Turkish judicial authorities, or the execution of a final trial. The (1)th joke (a), (b), (c) and (c) are being arranged in terms of these demands, and (2) it is ordered to be sent to the relevant state in the event that information that may lead to another state's criminal investigation is learned by the Republic of Turkey. There is no question that the importance of judicial cooperation is greater in terms of international law. In fact, the issue has become an obligation, as different countries' legal systems have increased their relationship with each other. For this reason, we believe that any positive amendments to the international legal system or to the law system are in our country's best interest, but it is no doubt that these amendments that we put into effect should be implemented in a way that will help improve our country's interest and reputation. There is no doubt, however, that both our legal system and our international and international political relations are the primary and primary goal of Turkey's interests and the interests of the mighty Turkish nation. With these explanations, the case of Reza Zarrab is known. Reza Zerrab, arrested in the United States and sentenced to seventy-five years in prison for four different crimes, is currently on the hunt for redemption. Speaking of getting away with it, we all know how this guy got away with it in Turkey. If there is such a thing, I will lie in front of you. The expression of the former Interior Minister Muammar Guler is unfortunately a black spot that will not be erased from memory. It is also thought to see whether Reza Zerrab will be asked to be extradited as part of this bill, which we have discussed. We are anxious to hear the clear answer to this question. Respected MPs, Turkey's international legal and political relations are sadly pathetic. In the evenings, the pool media is trying to paint a strong Turkey image in the news bulletins, but beyond our borders, unfortunately, that is not the case. The AKP is trying to please Europe with such legislation, which we hold talks on, but unfortunately it has not achieved any concrete success. Dear MPs, as of another dimension, any member of the terrorist organization abroad must be asked to be extradited to Turkey in a decisive manner. We also think it's important at this point. So, in terms of visa exemption and not under the compulsion of Europe, in a sincere manner, these international laws and relevant laws of law must be enforced and all those who are hostile to Turkey must be brought to our country and given the necessary punishment together. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we demand that the world be set in motion by the order and the sanctity of the state be legalized, if there is any Turkish necessity or necessity. Our international problems can only be solved by this philosophy. I hereby request the acceptance of our motion, the Veterans Assembly, and I salute you once again.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0342par0027	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the word "adjudgmentable" taken at the end of Article 7 of the International Adulteration Act (2) of the Criminal Co-operation Act on Article 278, which is currently in session. Behcet Yıldırım (Adıyaman) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0343par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0342par0035	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0344par0036	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0342par0037	Adıyaman MP Behçet Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0345par0040	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. President, my esteemed fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group to express our views on the 7th article of Bill of Law 278. I salute the General Assembly. We are making these legal regulations within the European Union's compliance laws as a basis, but these regulations are being rushed to Parliament without discussion in the European Union's Compliance Commission. So, while we're making laws in the integration process of the European Union, I'm not just saying it's for this law, we're turning the country into a test board for all the laws on the same plane. Let's take this law out, look at the results, and if they say there's a flaw in the European Union reports, we'll fix it again, or we'll rethink it again, if there are convictions in the European Court of Human Rights. We're making a law based on real democratic standards, not on the needs of the country, but on saving the day. The essence of the law clause is the European Union's homework for the benefit of visa exemption. I'm sorry, but it's not going to be a question of whether we're going to establish minimum democratic standards, and if we're going to take advantage of visa exemption, we're going to join the European Union. Speaking of minimum democratic standards, laws in countries with minimal democratic standards are binding for everyone. It's also true of my fellow villager, and it's binding for those who are homesick for the presidency of the White House. But "I don't know the court's decisions, I don't know the law, so let's leave the law aside if you have to, and decide according to your own mental code." "No matter how many laws you make from this House, your interests will not yield. In order for the laws to be binding in practice, the Parliament must first have control over the laws passed by the majority of Parliament, the laws passed by Parliament, and the authority to rule against all authorities. If you don't show that will, whatever law you take out of here, forget about visa liberalisation, forget about joining the European Union. And when we look at the way the current law is set up, let alone the government's legal authority, the government has left its majority in parliament to the central office, the Ministry of Justice, in order to regulate the issues within parliament's regulatory area. Rules and regulations are the way to regulate matters that need to be regulated by the law. It's against the spirit of the parliamentary system and its essence. Therefore, this arrangement clearly violates the Constitution with the majority of the government's Parliament. The government's reason for this arrangement is as follows: "As part of the ongoing process between our country and the European Union, there are issues related to judicial co-operation between our country and our country's visa liberalisation Dialogue, which is part of the road map of visa liberalisation. A special legal arrangement in the field of criminal co-operation is also important for the completion of the process of the visa liberalisation Dialogue, and the accession goals run between our country and the European Union, and for the meeting of the Union's acquisitor in this framework. My fellow lawmakers, we're making these laws for visa exemption, so I think we need to grow them to May. I don't think any sane country would consider giving a country visa exemption to a geography without peace. So, if we want visa exemption, we need to get out of this violent spiral, whether you want to call it a conflicting environment in our country or a war environment, whatever you want to call it. There's talk of accession goals being achieved. If we want to achieve membership goals, let alone extradition of criminals, first we have to address life-right violations, we have to bring thought, freedom of expression, we have to provide freedom of the press. Forget this visa exemption if you can't get an MP into a particular part of your own country. If curfews continue, if thousands of people are forced to migrate from their homes, if we can't solve our basic problems on the basis of dialogue, negotiation, we can't reach European Union goals by violating the Constitution by trying to remove the immunity of lawmakers. This is the number one government responsible for the lack of peace. Therefore, I think that if we want to move further through the European Union accession process in visa exemption, this war in the country must be stopped at once and created an environment where people can express their thoughts freely, discuss them on a democratic basis, and organize them. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0346par0052	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 8 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "promise" of Article 8 of the International Adli Co-operation Act (a) shall be changed to the "promise" of Article 8 of Article 8 (a) in Article 278. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of Article 8 of the International Court of Business Union Act (1) be changed in the following way in the criminal matters of which 278 rows are being discussed. Cemal Okan Yüksel Tahsin Tarhan Muharrem Male Musa Pine Selina Born Tulip ▪ The following provisions apply regarding international request for financial assistance: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 8 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act (1) (b) in the 278 Term Numbered Criminal Issues. Çağlar Demirel İdris Balaken Merkel Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Osman Baydemir Ahmet Yıldırım B) Turkish judicial authorities may, on grounds, partially or entirely refuse requests or ask for additional information or documents in the situations required. Does the Commission agree with the motion as read?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0347par0081	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0346par0082	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0348par0083	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0346par0084	Şanlıurfa MP Osman Baydemir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0349par0087	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored MPs, once again I salute you with respect, love, respect. No doubt the entire law we've been living under, with his soul, with his word, with the basic purpose of this country's effort to build the establishment of the fundamental rule of law that needs to be built, but we are now all in the middle of one of the efforts to meet the requirements of visa exemption in a hurry. Is the effort for visa exemption a false effort? Of course not. All our citizens in this country will, of course, benefit from visa exemption when the day comes and I hope it happens. But I'm very clear that the efforts of this legislature, unfortunately, will not be sufficient for this exemption to be lifted, because the practice and the law will only be fulfilled in accordance with that international obligation. Today, the practice is at a different stage, pointing to a different state. Look, I'm going to read to you a text: Due to the exclusive and offensive practices of members of the TEM branch staff and lawyers, we would like to share with the public that we have stopped the appointment of lawyers under the CMUK. This statement is not my explanation, but the statement of the president of Urban Baro and continues: Our people are being excluded, their meetings are being blocked, their clients are being insulted. When families hold private counsel for their relatives in custody, law enforcement officers in the TEM have been sent back by the lawyers with false reports that those in custody do not want special defence. In recent days, a female lawyer has been insulted by TEM police for stepping on her feet while waiting for a statement in TEM, and has been forced out with a offensive attitude. Lawyers are being tagged, a perception of the people in custody is being created, while our colleagues' duties are also being obstructed. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers -- Mr. Secretary, I would very much like to have Mr. Minister of Justice here in your place -- in approximately six months' time, only 1,400 people were taken into custody in the city of Urbana, where they were subjected to the most severe tortures. Here, while we groups argue amongst ourselves and take note of the picture of this country's political atmosphere, there's nothing left in practice, in the field, in the name of law, in the name of the state of law. People are being subjected to the most severe inhumane treatments, and you know what the current picture is, with a perspective that no one, like the fans of the two football teams, has ever seen their own fault, foul play. But today, the people who live in this geography suffer the most, and I assure you, one day, we're going to need every single one of us. At this time -- as a political representation -- if there's only one idea of politics and politics that doesn't run this country, which so far doesn't run it, it's the HDP administration, it's the HDP perspective. We haven't been government until now, and I say in that context, but all these other political trends have become governments, and for a while, you were saying, you were saying: justice, freedom, equality. For 14 years today in your administration, people have been screaming, "justice, equality, freedom." I assure you that one day you will need justice, one day freedom, one day equality.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0350par0093	Everybody needs it.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0349par0094	Come on, let's get this country out of here once again before this violent spiral. Let's save this country. The laws that will then be passed here will be the perspective of the lawmaker, the ability to respond to society's basic needs, the process of responding. Once again, I salute you with these feelings.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0351par0097	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0352par0099	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0351par0100	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All in favor... Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0353par0102	Let's do it electronically.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0351par0103	Let's do it electronically, okay. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of Article 8 of the International Court of Business Union Act (1) be changed in the following way in the criminal matters of which 278 rows are being discussed. The following provisions apply regarding international request for financial assistance: Muharrem Man (Chanakkale) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0354par0113	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0351par0114	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0355par0115	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0351par0116	Mr Muharrem Man will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Man.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0356par0119	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Yesterday, Mr. Attorney General, when he was reviewing the entire bill on behalf of the government, he went far away from the bill, and he said, "Look, the legislation and the execution are not working, the parliamentary system is not working, come, let's take care of this presidential system together, let's solve our problems." So we're saying that as the Republican People's Party -- we're going to keep saying this on every platform -- our problem is the parliamentary system, the presidential system, the presidential system, the government system, not the government system, our problem is democracy. So we say, let's all move our country to the first-class democracy it deserves. We say, let's make a constitution that guarantees basic rights and freedoms, doesn't damage the essence of basic rights and freedoms with exceptions, strengthens the judiciary, strengthens the parliamentary system, enhances the administration of the legislature, but you insist on running away because all you care about is the presidency. Look, today, they divide countries in four parts of the world -- fully democratic countries; semi-democratic, imperfect democratic countries; hybrids, fucking democratic countries; semi-aggressive countries and authoritarian countries, as we call them. We're in the semi-aggressive class of countries, unfortunately. During your time, we were regressed to the hybrid, hybrid democracy class. All right, let's take a look at the 49 most democratic countries in the world. These 49 countries are run by five presidential systems, six of them by the presidential system, three by the parliamentary government, and 35 per cent by the parliamentary system. And let's look at 20 countries in the world today whose national income per capita exceeds 40,000 dollars, developed, democracies developed, and the highest levels of prosperity run by the parliamentary system. So our problem isn't in the parliamentary system, it's in your applications. Let's strengthen the parliamentary system, our democracy... our problem is democracy, not the government system. Look, he's forced a visa waiver today, so you're bringing in the bill and trying to get him out of here in a hurry. Our goal in the European Union should be full membership, always full membership. Let's not give you full membership, but with a visa exemption, come take a walk. We need to get away from your understanding quickly. We say that the control of Parliament over the administration, the control of the judiciary over the administration, the control of the media over the administration, the control of civil society over the administration, is democracy and freedoms. Without these controls, it is unfortunately impossible to talk about democracy and freedom. Look, Journalists Without Borders has released the 2016 World Press Freedom Index, and you've followed it. Among 180 countries, we were ranked 151,1, on the list of freedoms of the press. We were left behind from countries such as Uganda, Tanzania, Kenya; we were in the same category as countries like Iran, Iraq, Nigeria and Ethiopia. Turkey certainly doesn't deserve this painting. So we all have to fix it together and fix it quickly. That's what we call an emergency democracy, precious lawmakers, urgent democracy. Today, the trial in Karaman was concluded. Yes, the criminal has been punished most severely, but those who neglected the crime in the background, who condone illegal proceedings, for example, the Governor of Karaman, has an investigation been launched into the National Education Director? Have there been investigations into those who neglected to deliver children to the homes of the state's dorms, the homes of the foundations, the houses of the cults? Look, I'm afraid we're experiencing these consequences because the foundation of the secular education system has been damaged. Trying to establish political or cultural Islam on the Republic of Turkey is not the right thing to do. What we have to do, as the Parliament of the Republic of Turkey, is to crown the secular democratic republic with democracy and bring it to the level of modern civilization together, I offer my love and respect.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0357par0127	Thank you, Mr. Man. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "promise" of Article 8 of the International Adli Co-operation Act (a) shall be changed to the "promise" of Article 8 of Article 8 (a) in Article 278. Kadir Koçdemir (Bursa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0358par0134	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0357par0135	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0359par0136	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0357par0137	Mr. Kadir Koçdemir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0360par0140	Mr. President, I have a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. I salute your high council. We had the most extreme examples today evening. From November 1st, when we look at the Parliament's work, I remember something about the military. Soldiers, you know, in the most energetic age of their lives, they're busy during the day, so they can sleep when their cheeks touch the pillow. When we look at the way the House operates, it's as if we lawmakers are being kept busy here all night so we don't have to do politics, so we don't even have a decent agenda, not even a chance to follow an open session. As a result, the votes are often held by lifting fingers in the wrong place, and then by flipping back to the Charter. In two days, we're caught several times in a row by lawmakers at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, not knowing what they're pointing their finger at. What's all this for? All this is for visa exemption. What was his visa exemption? The visa exemption was a process that our Turkish Grand National Assembly approved and implemented in 2014; again, it was a process that our government started and continued as a simultaneous process. If this process had gone as planned, the re-enactment agreement and visa exemption would have taken effect at the same time in June 2017. However, it has been compressed by a Prime Minister who recently said that his work was more important than the essence of matters, and when it was first prepared, a text of up to 200 articles was reduced to 38 articles and brought to us by regulations of up to 170 articles. So, in the co-existence, are we on the right track in the process of giving up the government's decision? We started the rebuttal deal three or four months ago. We hope to obtain visa exemption for Turkish citizens in June. But, will it? There are decisions made last week, and there will be a re-opening issue at the Home Secretary meeting tomorrow. It is said here that you may have followed: if the visa exemption is not then, then Georgia, Kosovo and Turkey will be given the first condition in the history of the European Union as a condition. What are they? Reception will be uncompromising. What's the second condition? Refugees will be provided with human resources here, which will be controlled by the European Union and will not be the least problem in respect of human rights. If that happens, visa exemption will be lifted immediately. Now, some of the sensitivities of our government that did all this are similar. In a few days, we will celebrate April 23rd. The same government has removed the celebration of April 23, for some reasons, but has been providing employment to its fellow martyrs since the 1990s; in the years when this government served, our Prime Minister shamelessly shows that he is able to share the suffering of Turkey's suffering under the name of İshdam Kura Şeleni, but this veteran Assembly's ability to celebrate the anniversary of the country's taking over the nation's will on its own behalf -- on some other grounds of Turkey's agenda -- while it is shamelessly affected by Turkey's agenda. Guys, our situation is that a guy bought a new car, he's not happy with his car, and he's complaining. And he says to the salesman who asks if you're cooked... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Turkey has become a system of sound and authority, all but its Parliament. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0361par0148	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0362par0149	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0361par0150	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. Electronic vote... Two minutes... [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's enough to make a decision. The motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions in Article 9: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "observed" statement at the end of Article (3) of the International Criminal Co-operation Act of the International Judicial Co-operation Act on Article 278 is changed into "responsible." İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir See Lightning Kamil Aydın Spiritual Ersoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the word "international" in the 9th and (3) of the 9th article of the International Criminal Co-operation Act of the International Adjective Act (I.A.) into "international." İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Meral Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Behçet Yıldırım Ahmet Yıldırım Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 9 of the International Adulteration Act on Criminal Issues 278, which are currently in session, in the following way. ▪ 1) The use of video and voice communication may be requested to meet the international request for co-operation. These procedures are carried out under the administration of the authorities or authorities of the current state and under the law of this state. Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Tahsin Tarhan Selina Doğan Mehmet Gökdağ Does the commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0363par0182	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0361par0183	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0364par0184	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0361par0185	Mr. Hussein Çamak will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Pineak.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0365par0188	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Unfortunately, in Turkey, the veil of neutrality in the eyes of the goddess of justice, a symbol of justice, with a sharp sword of justice in one hand, scales in the other, and a tape of neutrality in the eye, has been removed. After the referendum on September 12, 2010, since the judiciary was significantly driven by power, this neutral tape has been removed and its eyes have only been conditioned to look at one. In the squares, you will either side or be eliminated. After moaning, the word "justice" remained only a woman's name in this country. The European Court of Human Rights has the most cases since Turkey, Ukraine and Russia. These cases often turn out to be against Turkey. Out of international law norms, the prestige of our country is falling apart, and every day, we continue to create people who have nothing left to lose. This, of course, is the result of the desire to bring law, execution and judgment into the hands of one power, in line with the underdeveloped democracies that the political adult has been imitating from the Middle East. Dear friends, Ataturk Turkey, who won the Battle of Salvation against the European states that occupied Ottomans, had never given up its goal of peaceful civilization by turning its face back to Europe, where it once fought. Because complex civilization is also one of the most important conditions for competing with world countries. As a matter of fact, the young republic has managed to meet all civilized conditions from education to equality with men and women in order to achieve the world standard. Playing with the structure of law in world standards and losing its neutrality means setting up a ground for us tomorrow in the same Middle East swamp as Iraq, Syria and Libya. Congressmans, we are living in the halls of the court where justice escapes along with many others, under the yoke of palaces of justice, harming human rights and freedom of expression. Everyone knows where political cases will lead, except for the hope that the Constitutional Court, such as Can Dündar and Erdem Gül, will be able to make impartial decisions. This, unfortunately, causes us to fight each other and complain about the victims of these injustices. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Justice is the windpipes of citizens living in a country. By playing with justice, you can only leave that society breathless. People who have difficulty breathing can resort to all sorts of things in a heartbeat. The idea that justice does not exist is the most important basis for violent cycles. Thus, terrorism has always found a place for it to be trashed in countries without modern democracies. A French proverb says that in countries where justice is small, the criminals are the great ones. It is important to be aware that the state of the judiciary today can eliminate you when someone else arrives tomorrow. Come on, let's not embarrass ourselves and beat each other up any more by disregarding international law norms. We're in a time when the recipients of awards are being punished abroad for involvement in international crime. When I end my words, I say, let's not draw justice away from the independent fabric that everyone needs. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0366par0198	Thank you, Mr. Pineak. I will submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 9th article of the International Adli Co-operation Act (Icontact 278) in the current criminal matters, shall be changed to the international (also referred to as "International") in the 9th and (3)th jokes of the International Code of Co-operation. Mehmet Ali Aslan (Batman) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0367par0205	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0366par0206	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0368par0207	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0366par0208	Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0369par0211	Mr. President, I salute Mr. Court and the General Assembly. Today is the birth anniversary of the Prophet (AS/TK). He was born on the 12th day of Rebiyülevel. It was April 20th that day, too. So there was always a difference between the year of the moon and the year of the sun, but during that time, the rebiyulevvel corresponded to the generation of April 20. We celebrate the birth of Muhammad (AS) as a mercy to all the worlds, and ask all mankind to bring peace and peace to all the world. .....
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0370par0215	Say it in Turkish, we don't understand.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0369par0216	I said it in Turkish. Of course, Turkish... because you have Kurdish and Arabic antipathy, they don't even understand Turkish, unfortunately, there are friends who come to a lack of insight. And I appreciate you worrying about it on a day like this. There are signs in this for you in the language of every nation; We have created you in different languages and colors, not that you may know each other, and that you may help each other. Sure, it's about justice. Again, there are dozens of verses about justice, and they bind all of us, especially the assembly, where the will of the people, the will of the nation, is more binding because the people are just as we are. We're a first-degree example. When you rule between people, you judge with justice. And yet there is a Covenant of the Prophet, which binds all of us, and perhaps what we need most these days, he says, "The main reason why those who were before you were destroyed is because they did not touch him when a respectable person committed a crime, and when a weak and solitary person committed a crime, they punished him. I swear to God, my daughter Fatima will be punished if she commits a crime. When I read about this incident, I was reminded of immunity. I removed the interest at the Farewell Hutbesi, and the first interest I lifted was the interest of my uncle Abbas, and the first blood feud I lifted was the blood feud of my uncle Rebia. If we want the practice of the law, it's simply an example of immunity -- the prophet (AS) has given no privilege to himself or to his daughter or relatives. From the highest office that wants immunity removed, the President, the Prime Minister, and the Minister of Justice will first apply it to themselves and say: "First, we demand that our immunity be removed. This is the divine reference of the Prophet. This is the example. But look, what does it say? When a righteous person commits a crime, they do not touch it, but when a weak person commits a crime, their punishment is only because of what the Messenger has said, and it is the truth, and there are signs for him who supports it. If my Lord wills, He will replace you with another people. My Lord is Guardian over all things. This book isn't just for reading. The Prophet is the living Koran, and we must follow these practices in some way. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0371par0221	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0372par0222	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0371par0223	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Aslan, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0373par0225	I thank you. Rather than a party, put on your own practice, be worthy of your party.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0374par0227	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0375par0228	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0376par0229	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but I have a request for a roll call. Mr. Free Special, please, don't let your friends stand up, I'll take it, I'll process you. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0377par0232	He has just criticised our policy on immunity, judging by the birth of the Prophet (AS/TK) in his speech.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0376par0233	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0377par0237	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all at this hour of the night. Based on the testimony of the precious witness, I too celebrate the birth of the Holy Prophet. I hope to walk his path. Dear friends, on the basis of the birth of the Holy Prophet, for what reason, for what understanding, for what immunity you have attached to Teville, I would like to speak to my precious teacher again, for whatever reason he said so.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0378par0240	Come on, read it again, you'll understand.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0377par0241	However, there is a fact from our point of view, which is that we would like to have our deputy, just like he said, to have his immunity referred to by your co-mayor, three months ago, that all immunitys be removed. You asked for it. Besides, I'd like to express another fact. The issue of immunity, another reason for Turkey's recent agenda is that all HDP MPs, without exception, removed our immunity. Friends, I'm not kidding, a few months ago, all HDP MPs went to the head of the Parliament and petitioned the Parliament, and that signature wasn't taken back. His instructions, sir. You said, we said, but we said, "Let us all be removed, not of the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP)." Because you stood on this stand, not fearing God -- your testimony -- there's theft, there's harassment. You said, "It's not going to happen, you've made accusations that we didn't imagine."
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0378par0243	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0377par0244	We say: 'If you have an accusation, let's see whether the AK PARTI or the CHP's and the HDP's and the HDP's. In return for the signatures the HDP has requested.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0379par0245	Including the Prime Minister, Prime Minister?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0377par0246	I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0380par0248	Thank you. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0381par0250	Mr. Orator has stated that our group is both in a major conflict about immunity and is afraid.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0380par0251	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0382par0253	Is it signed or not? I didn't say anything, Mr. President. Did they get the signatures back?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0381par0255	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, Mr. Bulent Turan is a lawyer, but from what I understand, he can't monitor law enforcement, legislature activities in Parliament very much. The proposal that we presented to the Constitutional Compromise Commission during the 24th Amendment period and the new constitutional proposal for immunity. We don't approve of a proposal brought against the Constitution by resorting to such games, deceptions, once and for all.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0383par0257	What are you afraid of?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0381par0258	I'm gonna tell you right now, I'm gonna tell you who's scared.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0384par0259	Don't make a big deal out of it, lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0381par0260	Permanently, we propose that all immunity be removed, not just once, but also for all ministers, except for the immunity of the bench. You're the one who's scared. I mean, you've brought such an arrangement that you bypass all the mechanisms of the Civil Code. The process of the karma commission is missing, the MP has no right to defend, the universal principle of the backward functioning of the law is underfoot. I've suspended the current Constitution with a purely arbitrary application, and I've brought a temporary clause, and it'll be a one-time thing, you say. Yeah, that's bullshit.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0385par0261	What are you afraid of?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0381par0262	Let's remove them permanently -- except for the parliamentary immunity of the bench -- and include all the crimes that come next. So, if you don't understand this, I'm sorry, we're fine, we're gonna say there's something wrong with your ability to understand. There's nothing for us to be afraid of, nothing we can't account for. We've said so many times, whether our way leads to the dungeon or to the grave, we'll never take a step back from this path that we're leading. I hope you're not scared either. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0386par0266	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0387par0267	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0388par0268	Mr. Group Deputy President Bulent Turan is calling the name of our party El or Yaman? Let's see, here is the measure of your height. By saying things like that, it has led to a misleading and unrelated point of view of our group's attitude towards immunity.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0389par0269	It was just about the HDP, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0388par0270	I'd like to answer that.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0390par0271	By referring to the name of your party?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0388par0272	Yes, he did.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0390par0273	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0388par0275	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I am now speaking in great comfort here as a member of a party in historic proportion.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0391par0278	Well, well!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0388par0279	In 2003, when we first said to the Justice and Development Party, "Let's remove the untouchables."
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0392par0280	Look, your band didn't applaud. The band didn't applaud.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0393par0281	The band knows when to clap.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0388par0282	...at that time, the Prime Minister of the Age had said: "With this judgment? When we said this in 2010, he said: "I will not make the chosen ones drown the appointed ones." In recent years, he had a parallel hold on the judge. Now, on the issue of immunity, the present Prime Minister says, "Hodri square!" It says: "If you have the courage to run, you won't find the hole to escape." We gave the answer to that hodri square right away, we're relaxed.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0394par0284	Take care of the group.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0388par0285	But, ladies and gentlemen, if you're going to make a challenge, if you're brave, if you're brave, if you're brave, you're not going to take that hodri square off the back of others, you're going to involve yourself in it. (Applause from CHP) There are no Prime Minister in the Prime Minister's square, there are no 26 ministers in the Prime Minister's position.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0395par0286	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0396par0287	Take care of your group, your group!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0388par0288	The Prime Minister pulls the trigger, but his attitude is false bullying, the fake bully!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0397par0290	Cowardice, cowardice!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0398par0291	Let's have a clean word, please.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0388par0292	After pulling out, the Prime Minister's flight left thirty minutes later and narrowed it down to three and a half hours for a brief meeting. One fezleke of Bali Yıldırım, 800 signatures in his pocket, they corrupted the Prime Minister's chemistry. Let us tell you this in the future: If someone is putting forth an attitude, if they are showing courage, he will first put forth his own heart. Your Prime Minister's a fake bully, the mayor's a...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0399par0297	He's a coward, a coward!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0400par0298	Mr. Free Special... Mr. Special, please... it's not right to speak so heavily to the presidents and prime ministers.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0401par0299	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0400par0300	Yes, what's your request?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0401par0301	Mr. President, for the rude language he used to speak to our president...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0400par0302	Here, two minutes... It's not nice, it's not nice to any general president and especially the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0401par0305	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this bench is not supposed to be a place where people who swear at their own party every day, with street language, blasphemous proposals. I'm telling you, no matter what president, no matter what deputy he is, it's not going to look good in the last statement. However, we are sad and troubled that the place where Mustafa Kemal's 90-year-old party came from has become a blasphemous party.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0402par0307	We've learned from Recep, from Recep.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0401par0308	There's a swear-off contest; one comes out, one goes out; the president comes out, the deputy leader comes in. Is that acceptable?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0402par0309	We learned from Mr. Recep!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0401par0310	Our President-General has been very brave to say that all parties should be removed from their rights and their immunity.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0403par0311	Let him put himself in it!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0401par0312	You say, "Yes." You say, "No." It suits you, I'll tell you, but we'll take care of it. And we'll never be one of those parties where the disbeliever is authorized to compete in blasphemy.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0404par0314	But it doesn't suit anyone.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0401par0315	Look, dear friends, I'll tell you one more thing: there are two issues discussed in our proposal for amendments in the Constitution; one of them is immunity. The gentlemen say, "Yes." He says, "The Prime Minister doesn't have one." Look, if there's a cure for the ministers...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0404par0316	I do.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0401par0317	...it's being removed, they don't know what they're doing.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0404par0318	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0401par0319	The Supreme Court stemming from the ministry's mission cannot be removed. (CHP rows) We need parliamentarians.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0404par0320	The ministry is finished.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0401par0321	However, you may not know, the current 129...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0405par0323	You're wrong, you're wrong!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0401par0324	Why are you yelling, what? Wait a minute, calm down! ...there are 129 of them, including ministers. The crime stemming from the ministry's mission is one thing, the crime stemming from acting as a deputy is another. If you don't know, we can explain, but I'll tell you again, I've got a list, now 11 people, no idea what you're doing. Are you saying yes, or no?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0406par0326	None of your business! We say what we want. We're gonna ask you?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0401par0327	We'll see who's brave and who isn't, in the moment of the vote.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0407par0330	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0408par0331	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0407par0332	Mr. Akçay has been demanding words for a very long time, and I'll give them to you later, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0408par0333	Okay.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0407par0334	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0409par0335	Mr. President, while Mr. Turan was speaking earlier, he also mentioned the name of our party, and in a manner of speaking...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0407par0336	Here, let's give you our word for two minutes, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0409par0339	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, I'll leave it to all of you, whether it's street language or street language. We, the National Movement Party, proposed a constitutional amendment on November 14, 2007, and proposed to political parties, the Justice and Development Party as well as to those immunitys in our party's programme and our election declarations. However, the Justice and Development Party has rejected our proposal to limit immunity only to the immunity of the bench and parliamentary activities. The nationalist Movement Party's programme and all election declarations stipulate that the issue of immunity will be limited to the immunity of the bench and only Parliamentary activities. Again, in this framework, there were four different proposals that we proposed to the Justice and Development Party and the Republican People's Party, and again about these proceedings and immunitys, about the issue on the agenda, and in these four proposals, there was no constitutional change in the law nor any amendment, but in order to remove the issue of the Justice and Development Party from the context, and by laying flour on the rope, he spread the issue and spread the matter with temporary Constitutional change. However, it is necessary to carry out the proceedings in our Constitution and the Civil Code, so there is no need to do so, our Constitution, our Civil Law, has opened the way for this... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...all right, we'll be able to work this out with our proposals, and we'll be able to work it out.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0410par0344	Mr. Akçay, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0409par0345	Yes, I hope we'll be able to express it in the future, Mr. President, but it's not a waste of challenging you, it's the nationalist movement party that has made you the main challenge. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0410par0347	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Special...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0411par0349	Mr. Turan just spoke in response to my speech, using the expression of his abusive party, our right to answer...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0412par0350	That's not true!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0410par0351	Here, two minutes... I swear to God, I'm about to say something, and he's going to be pissed off at me, the group's acting presidents, but I'm telling you, if it weren't for those group presidents, we'd be running this coven pretty well, folks.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0413par0354	Mr. President, he's insulting our Prime Minister, you can't say that.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0410par0355	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0414par0357	If there are no members of the Justice and Development Party Group, the Parliament will be well-run. I would like to say that I accept the applause of my 10-15 friends, who applaud their words, and thank you on behalf of the five valued members of the Justice and Development Party. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now, dear friends, once, the ministers are constantly changing, constantly changing, relevant, indifferent minister comes in, sometimes it's the curve line. Look who's sitting there. The Minister has a fezleke.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0415par0360	That's right.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0414par0361	It's true. It says. In this change, Mr. Minister's fezlekesi, Mr. Secretary is excluded from this arrangement, as it is necessary for the ministers to establish an investigative commission on the Supreme Court to be tried in the Constitution, to serve as a prosecutor, then to vote his report in the General Assembly. Besides, as CHP, we've made it very clear that we've had one proposal from the beginning.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0416par0364	Mr. President, in order for this to happen, it has to be about his mission.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0414par0365	Let's stop the first joke of the matter of the Civil Code, let's talk freely here, but then let's raise his second joke for all of us, for the past, for today, for tomorrow. Who's afraid of what? Who's afraid of what? What's the harm in that? You're saying we're short on arguments. Thanks, it'll be less than a few, it'll be long gone by now. If you have a clean government, if you have confidence in your ministers, if you have confidence in yourself, you believe that you have also made a very serious change in the judiciary, and you say, "We are the son, we are the girl." We have his judgment. Your friend said. If, under the circumstances, you cannot show courage toward the future and the past, then look at the criticism of those who came here after that. Mr. President, I assure you, what I'm saying is that it's a political criticism.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0417par0367	Yeah, yeah!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0414par0368	I don't know about your bullying under normal circumstances. But it's his own expression. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What are you afraid of? Be young. There's nothing more normal than saying that your attitude is a false bully. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0418par0373	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0419par0374	Mr. President, I'm going to file a report.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0414par0375	No, no, say it from here, please.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0418par0376	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0419par0377	If it weren't for the other members of the group... I'd like to express that I don't find your testimony elegant.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0414par0378	They applauded you, they applauded you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0419par0379	That's why...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0420par0380	You've been nervous for two days.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0421par0381	Well, I'm not gonna make jokes anymore.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0422par0382	I took it as a joke, Mr. President, democracy.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0423par0383	The party's deputy leader is just about to step down from the bench, and he's going to talk back to our Prime Minister, and we're not going to answer him. I don't think that's an understanding, that's one. Secondly...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0424par0385	You don't answer.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0425par0386	Mr. Turan, you don't have to say that. I'm aware of that.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0423par0387	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0425par0388	But if you're very uncomfortable, I'll tell you the second part of the speech: I love the vice presidents, they're all very good friends. Okay?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0423par0389	Thank you, Mr. President, and we love you very much. Mr. President, I'm also going to tell you to make a mistake. The Deputy Leader of the Group has just said that they will not be tried, even though they have a fezleke of the ministers. Article 83 and Article 100 are different. If our minister has a fezleke, if there is a barrier to immunity like ours, he will be removed and tried.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0426par0391	No.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0427par0392	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0426par0393	Ask him about the situation now, it's not like that.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0428par0394	Congressmans, please... you have spoken, please leave the administration to me.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0426par0395	No, ask the Minister.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0429par0396	Mr. President, if the group vice president doesn't know, take a break. I'll say it again...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0430par0397	Yeah, it's not about pharmaceuticals, it's about law, it's about law. He knows better because he's a lawyer, you're talking about pharmaceuticals.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0431par0398	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0432par0400	Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0431par0401	Are you done yet?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0433par0402	It may not be, but the Minister's fezleke is...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0434par0403	Shut up!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0435par0404	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0436par0405	Come in, I'm listening...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0437par0406	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0436par0407	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0438par0408	Mr. President, but I'll say it again.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0439par0409	It's a crime of duty.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0438par0410	There's a Supreme Court in Parliamentary regimes, and it's a separate study to remove it. So the obstruction of the immunity issue will be lifted during our time and the ministers will be tried. However, if there's anything more to the charge of duty, I'm not talking about the prosecution's proceedings...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0439par0411	That's it...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0438par0412	Then the matter of the Supreme Court will begin. So, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0439par0413	Of course, if he is a pickpocket, he will be judged; and if he has slept before Reza, he will not be judged in court.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0440par0414	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0438par0415	What kind of situation is this?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0441par0416	Shut up, shut up!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0442par0417	What's it to you? I'm asking you to shut up?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0443par0418	Mr. Special, I'm listening to Mr. Turan, and I don't understand. Please don't interfere, he's the deputy leader of the group, and so are you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0444par0419	Mr. President, what manners, what decency!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0442par0420	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0443par0421	Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0444par0422	When you say "cursive," they get angry, he always talks, he always stops, we just listen, can that happen?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0445par0423	Who said anything about sexual deviants?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0444par0424	Why does he say it himself?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0445par0425	Who says that?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0446par0426	Get back in front of him, Bulent, get back in front of him.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0447par0427	Mr. Turan, are you finished?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0448par0428	Mr. President, I know because they're talking, lying down. The man who uses a low expression is a pervert of the sex. That's what I'm saying. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Mr. President, our ministers' fezleke is just like the Regents. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0449par0432	Is it over?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0450par0433	You're in a bad mood, you're in a bad mood.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0449par0435	Mr. Secretary will make a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0451par0439	Mr. President, when the Constitutional Court counts the duties of the Constitutional Court on Article 147, the Constitutional Court shall judge the members of the Council of Ministers for their duties as the Supreme Court for their crimes. Thus, when he was acting undersecretary of Culture about Ismet Yilmaz, he was sent to the Council for the Protection of Culture and Nature, a statement to the Council for the Protection of Beings of Culture and Nature because he appointed someone who should be assigned to Ankara to Erzurum. Therefore, if this immunity is lifted, Ismet Yilmaz will also be tried for this crime, but the Supreme Court is not where he will be tried. Why not the Supreme Court? Because it's not about his mission.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0452par0440	Let's talk about it, Mr. President. Let's talk about it.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0453par0441	He doesn't understand, he doesn't understand.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0451par0442	Where's he gonna go? He's going to the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit10spe0454par0445	Thank you. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0454par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 278. The commission is here. The government is here. On Article 9 of the bill, we will vote on Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan and his friends' motion. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "observed" statement at the end of Article (3) of the International Criminal Co-operation Act of the International Judicial Co-operation Act on Article 278 is changed into "responsible." Spiritual Ersoy (Osmania) and friends Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0455par0015	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0454par0016	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0456par0017	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0454par0018	Mr. Ruhi Ersoy will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0457par0021	Mr. President, the high-profile law we're discussing is the general issue in the bag law, the debate over visa exemption in the integration process of the European Union, and the 9th article I'm talking about is the introduction of legal regulations for the testimony of prisoners in Europe or any criminal in the online environment, in the use of technology. Of course, the oral culture, written culture, electronic culture, cultural changes, and the spread of globalization, networks of communication and focus in life have made such sharing inevitable. But at the end of this, we're running around in an environment where even the issues that we're not going to get are controversial, and we're trying to figure out if we can take a road to our European Union adventure. Now, as we run this adventure, the National Movement Party talks about honorable membership in its own election declaration and general principles. Now, we all know that the law, which raises concern about using criminals' communications, on one hand and on the other, Europe has released areas that broadcast over the screens of separatists in its own centers, which promote terrorist organizations. Not only that, but the West wants to make the problems it describes in its own world, in its own principles, in its beliefs as the world's problem. The 9/11 process is a turning point for them, and the threat to them is that yesterday, Al Qaeda, then ISIS, etc., and so on, sees their own lands as a threat to them, and the whole world says, "Let the world take common precautions against them, if those who want to be integrated are in it." All right, what's the threat from this PKK? So this is the PKK that's threatening us, isn't it? As I was preparing, in the past few years, the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security of the Prime Minister has studied the laws of various countries and international agencies on terrorism, or red books. Do you know what's out there, precious lawmakers? The West saw only the organizations I counted as a threat to it. The PKK is not a threat to the West, and even in its reports published a few days ago, almost remove the PKK from its terrorist organisation list. Now, there's a report that Turkey has been shot to the ground. So here we are, back in the morning, back in the morning, getting everybody sleepy, everyone tired, nervous, trying to make a law on visa love legislation for Europe. That sounds ironic to me. First, we feel that more meaningful exits should be made for the honorary membership of Europe to give up its dishonorable attitudes. What do you mean? Now you will support the broadcast organs made by PKK members, digital technology and organization members will be a material for propaganda that is shown as cinematographers, and then you will say: "We show the prisoners digitally from the screens in the process of court trial. The fight against terrorism is a matter of concept. Aziz MPs, we want the proposals of the National Movement to be carefully followed. The basis of this desire is the fact that it will not end, not only by fighting the flies on it, but by drying the swamp. How many terrorist heads are you able to bring through Interpol, a member of a terrorist organization, with a red bulletin, to this country or wherever it is, and you're doing what's necessary? Start from here, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0458par0025	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0459par0028	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0458par0029	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request. Mr. Spectacular, Mr. Bircan, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Yildiz, Mr. Yþeş, Mr. Aşek, Mr. Emir, Mr. Çağin, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Akaydın, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Men, Mr. Emre, Mr. Yilmak, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Aldan. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 10 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The International Law on Judicial Co-operation on Criminal matters, which are currently in session, 278 rows, is the 10. Article (4.) We propose that the phrase "but" in his joke be changed to "only." İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir See Lightning Kamil Aydın Spiritual Ersoy Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the expression "responsible" be added before the word "judgmentable" is mentioned in the 10th article of the International Judicial Co-operation Act on issues of 278 rows. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Meral Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Behçet Yıldırım Ahmet Yıldırım Other authors of the same motion: Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Selina Doğan Mehmet Gökdağ Tahsin Tarhan Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0460par0063	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0458par0064	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0461par0065	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0458par0066	Mr Kemal Zeybek will first speak on the motions. Here you are, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0462par0069	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. First of all, I'd like to remind you that the late justice is unfair. April 23rd, two days later. It's a day for decent, honorable, brave people. Today, April 23rd, is the day our martyrs are remembered. April 23rd is the day of our country's independence and joy. That is why in the Battle of Salvation, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, a friend of his, a man of honor and heart, said, "There is no salvation for the country if the righteous who live in a country are not as courageous and courageous as the dishonest ones. " Yes, today is the day of the struggle for the democratic, secular republic in the Battle of Salvation, at which point we have arrived. The day of April 23rd will be celebrated by brave people all over Turkey, all over the land, in every corner of the country. We, the Republican People's Party, the founder of the Republic's Republican People's Party, are also condemning the mindset that is not allowed to celebrate with children in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... at the point where our country has arrived today. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Of course, the times in which societies live... in particular, morality is the foundation of society. For these fundamental, moral people, the life of the republic's history is also very important to its process. We today, in Turkey, in Karaman, in the Ensar Foundation, and in there, the rulers of this, of our 45 children and our young...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0463par0073	Not 45 people.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0462par0074	We know of the existence of the notion, which, with a certain ignorance, with a dalliance -- that's what it's all about. Karaman is after the Ensar Foundation, and it is not enough that the person brought up the idea behind it today is being tried for it. We know that the justice that protects it, that doesn't go against it... has not been done.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0464par0075	He's on trial for 500 years, 500 years.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0462par0076	Those who want to cover this up are entirely complicit in this case.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0465par0078	Go for it!
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0466par0079	Congressmans, please, let's be quiet.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0462par0080	Of course, it's about judgment, justice. In law-run states, judges are independent in their duties; they judge according to their conscience, in accordance with the Constitution, law, law. No body, authority, authority or person can give orders or instructions to courts and judges in the use of the authority of the judiciary, or send them to the general, or give them advice and advice.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0467par0081	Of course, it's true.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0462par0082	There is no question about the use of judicial authority in the Legislative Assembly, no discussion, and no statement can be made. Unfortunately, today in our country, where we are now, none of this is being followed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and that they're suppressing the judiciary, and that you've seen, in some way, politically governed by the judiciary...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0467par0085	Give me an extension, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0468par0086	Mr. Zeybek, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0462par0087	Dear friends, I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0468par0089	The other speaker is Bitlis MP Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0469par0092	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to present the opinion and suggestions of my group on Article 10 of the Law Bill 278 on behalf of the People's Democratic Party and my group. I salute you and the public. Dear lawmakers, this bill, which has been rushed on visa exemption from the European Union, has basically been drafted without the rule of rule of law. Of course, it's not like we're ignoring a major issue, such as visa exemption, or we don't want it to happen. But to do something positive, we don't think it's the right approach, even to the most fundamental norms of the law, to be left to the initiative of the Ministry of Justice, which is called the central authority of the bill. In fact, as mentioned in the basis of the bill, we need to address, not only in one dimension, but in all dimensions, the International Judiciary Union on Criminal Matters, which are envisioned for visa liberalisation of the European Union, but also in the case of bringing the Department of Justice custody over the legal mechanism that operates in Turkey. In fact, with this bill, the ruling party, which is supposed to turn Turkey into a state of law, develops the opposite method and gives the Ministry of Justice broad powers, allowing all judicial authorities to comply with this decision. Dear lawmakers, we are aware that as the People's Democratic Party, legislation and governance should operate on a democratic basis with a pluralistic understanding, while the judiciary must be created to make decisions in an independent, legal and free manner. But the ruling party, as in many areas, is trying to gather all the power at the centre, even in a situation where it will save the citizen from the loss of visas. Even in a judicial matter, the stronger the judgment will be, not the rule of law, but the creation of the law of the superior. I mean, our primary mission is to maintain the independence of the judiciary, but today we're seeing an example of how to create an dependent judiciary. In general terms of the bill, the demands for the judicial cooperation of foreign states, the violation of Turkey's sovereignty rights, national security, public order or other basic interests; the fact that the verb is a crime related to military crime, thought crime, political crime or political crime alone; the subject may be rejected in the face of convincing reasons for the person's race, ethnicity, religious, citizenship, or political opinion, for which he will be subject to an investigation or prosecution of a certain social group. Of course, all forms of human application are acceptable to us, but concepts such as national security and public order have today become a statement based on the interpretation of power. The concepts of freedom, equality, and justice that are being used where power does not want to be today are called threatening national security and disrupting public order. Members of parliament, the ruling party has shown its example very clearly in both the teacher and academics' case. On many platforms, the apocalypse was broken, and academics and Ayşe teachers were developed statements that would argue that they were threatening public order and even national security from terror propaganda. Dear lawmakers, not everyone has to have the same opinion as you. As much as we don't like it, respect for what's different is the most important indicator of our democratic consciousness, our culture. Today, I'm afraid, we're facing a complete eclipse. Anyone who doesn't think like power can easily be accused of treason, terrorist, separatist, false headlines about him, news can be made, cases can be filed. Today, thousands of people, including journalists, academics, politicians, are in prison for this reason. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Finally, the nationalist, polarizing, security tells me there's a way to go back, not forward with rhetoric and actions, but backwards, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0470par0103	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0471par0104	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0470par0105	I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motions... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 10 of the International Adli Co-operation Act (4) be replaced as "only" in the intermediary Article 278. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0472par0112	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0470par0113	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0473par0114	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0474par0115	Motive...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0470par0116	I'm reading the reason: It has been predicted that the provisions should be more understandable and that there will be no hesitation in the application. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions in Article 11: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of "genderity" after the declaration of the 11th Amendment (b) in the Criminal Co-operation Act of the International Adjective Act on Article 278, which is currently in session. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir See Lightning Kamil Light Desire Virtue Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the International Criminal Co-operation Act on Article 278 shall be changed (1) (b) in the following manner. The person requested for extradition has strong reason to doubt whether he will be subject to an investigation or prosecution due to ethnicity, religious, citizenship, sexual orientation and gender identity, a certain social group or political opinion, or whether he will be punished or subjected to torture or abuse." Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Mehmet Gökdağ Selina Doğan Tahsin Tarhan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the International Law on Judiciary Co-operation in Article 278, which is currently in session, change the (1)th joke (b) Bendi and (2)th joke in the following way. Çağlar Demirel İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Merkel Danış Beştaş Behcet Yıldırım Besime Konca B) There are strong doubts that the person demanded will be subject to an investigation or prosecution due to his race, ethnicity, religious, citizenship, sexual orientation and gender identity, or gender identity, or a certain social group, or political opinion, or be punished or subjected to torture or abuse. 2) All elements of the elephant, particularly the way it works, may not be considered a political crime, considering the weight of the tools used in the crime's operation or consequences. Genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity are not considered political crimes. Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0475par0146	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0470par0147	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0476par0148	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0470par0149	Mr. Besime Konca will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Konca.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0477par0152	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. We're here to make laws, laws, and law enforcement laws again. But while the government is being hasty about it, the Prime Minister says that these laws, in particular, have ruled out 90 per cent of European integration laws, but the countries of the European Union are publishing reports of incompatibility regarding the policies of this government. The latest report was 73 pages, and there were serious criticisms. The government travels through all European countries, door to door, and these visits are shared with the public that successful practices have been achieved as a result. But then the European countries, in their report published by the European Union, found that this government was not actually doing good work, that Turkey's politics was not a successful government that ruled Turkey. The report for Syria is 55 pages, and the report for Turkey is 73 pages. Reports filed three or five years ago are 45, 43 pages. In this regard, this report shows that the government's existing laws are not law of harmony, that it cannot accept itself to Europe, and they also have an approach on the basis of extraditement of this report. This is a picture that appears to be a concrete statement that this Assembly is not working on the right basis, that it does not make healthy laws, that it does not apply laws. Again, I'd like to mention the case of sexual abuse against the children seen today in Karaman. A one-act theater has actually been played, which is the second time the public's conscience has been injured today. A case that has not listened to the lawyer of the victims' families and ended in one hearing is an unprecedented case in Turkey where such heavy crimes have been committed. And the president of the Ensar Foundation -- and I'm saying it in the same dimension -- we worked on the defendant's name to get the most severe punishment. There's an explanation after the trial. They worked, yes, by affecting the court, whether we should give them a hundred years or two hundred years... the last thing they've agreed to is a five-eight-year sentence. However, all those in charge of this foundation clearly state that the defendant is working to get the maximum penalty, especially when the president is the one who should be the subject in this case. It was very clear in this case how the trial was directed, that it was not a trial, that it was an end to this crime, that it was a relief of public opinion and that it was a cover-up. But the public will go over it over and over again, and we will follow it. And since something like this happened today, I'd like to share it here. In Milas, a 14-year-old girl at Dr. Mete Ersoy Elementary School -- Olcay Koptekin -- was subjected to the abuse of a male student and assaulted the child in self-defense. When this went to the administration, what the principal did said would lead to discipline for beating a boy. She also summoned the mother of this child, and while the administration was discussing it, the daughter molested me. I defended myself. The school administration said we'd discipline you. He said that the girl threw herself down in front of both the school administration and her mother, and now she's fighting for her life at Mudla Hospital. Will the Department of National Education or the Ministry of National Education go through with it? Is he going to find out? Right away, the school's officials, managers and vice principals, and the teachers who brought this girl into this situation, the 14-year-old girl, need to be processed immediately. So it's clear to us, if we end the abuses at the Ensar Foundation or at other schools or other schools in this way, what other schools will conclude, and how will other teachers do their duty and develop an attitude toward students? Another issue is that I have no time: Today is the anniversary of a massacre that took place 38 years ago in Malatya. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I condemn the massacre in 1978. And today, in the villages of that province, they are just the means to legitimize this massacre.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0478par0163	Mr. Konca, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0479par0164	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-20sit11spe0478par0165	I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
