tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 102nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. As usual, members of lawmakers, I'd like some silence. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Istanbul MP Selina Doğan, who wants to talk about issues related to the historical peninsula and proposals for solutions. Here you go, Mr. Dogan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Dogan, a moment, please. Congressmans, please continue the conversation in the lobby. I'm asking you... I think I'm making this warning for nothing.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0002par0011	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0001par0012	Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0003par0016	Dear MPs, I have made a promise to tell you about the situation in Istanbul, which has not only held the most important historical structures in Turkey but also the most important ones in the whole world, which have been in the almost dying historic peninsula and historical peninsula for thousands of years. I salute you all. But before I say anything, I condemn the hatred massacre committed against LGBTI individuals in Orlando, America, three days before that. And again, in our country, LGBTI organisations have decided to carry out the march they call the Walk of Honor, as in the past years. They've had a lot of heavy interference over the past year by the police, and we don't want these images to happen again. Also, it's been published in the press, and there are very serious threats to their rights of life. I would like to remind Istanbul Governor and İstanbul Security Directorate once again that they must take responsibility for their most basic democratic rights, and now, I am continuing the issues of the historic peninsula. Istanbul, which is home to many civilizations in history, is hosting millions of tourists from different countries of the world every year, thanks to its ancient and architectural masterpieces, which defy cultural accumulation and time. Today, I'm afraid, under the occupation of corrupt urbanization, concrete piles and mobile sellers in the historic peninsula, especially the Closed Trader in this region. Historical structures that rise from the hands of famous architects who cost the world show unique examples of Roman, Greek, Byzantine, and Ottoman architecture are still challenging time, but these structures have become unorthodox by contempt and environmental factors. The historical peninsula is giving SOS, valuable lawmakers, and it's time to put a scalpel in here already, and it's even passing. It's time for the historic cyclone to re-emerge from the collective value of all mankind and return history to its originality. Dear lawmakers have become obliged to implement a whole-fledged understanding of governance, including the historic peninsula. This administration must take the following precautions at once: Tourism investments should be encouraged in the region and open the way for new and modern businesses under various standards. Fish bakers, whose health and hygiene are not adequate, must be set standards for restaurants and must be audited. Unfortunately, it's occupied by traveling vendors on the historic peninsula. The image of the third world country we saw in the documentary should be terminated. I'm afraid the light signs and the air conditioners are creating video pollution. Tiners cut off tourists and ask for money, you all know. The solution to these problems must be produced immediately, and the thinners must be rehabilitated. The historical peninsula must be purged of functions such as small industry, manufacturing, storage, which do not match its identity; the tradesman must move to other areas without being victimised. In the long run, the peninsula must be cleared of traffic by leaving tire-wheeled transportation; alternative transportation options, such as light rail system, walking and bicycle routes, should be presented. The historic peninsula is the guest room of our country, so to speak, the window of Turkey. However, the attitude of taxi drivers working in this area does not match our hospitality or our image of the country. From the gates of Eminönu Square, tourists are being carried to 150-200 lira. Although this problem has been expressed on almost every platform, unfortunately, no measures have been taken so far. Of course, you can't talk about the historical peninsula and not talk about the problems of jewelry, you know, in a historical peninsula where the heart of a jeweler's heart beats. Jewelry is a job with a history of 6,000 years. It's an industry that employs about 1.5 million people from a workshop to a wholesaler, a stapler, a retailer to an exporter, a one-eye shop to a large jewelry factory. The Chamber of Commerce considers the tax record enough to be a jeweler, while the jewelry rooms are rightly seeking mastery. When that happens, anyone who has money for years of labor and craftsmanship can enter into the jewelry industry, and there are new jewelers who lack the rules and the athentic culture of the profession. The sector is losing blood, and it's literally dying, losing its energy and its masters. It's time for the administration to step in and tell him to stop. In order to resolve the sector's problems by one hand, the production of employees must be single-handedly controlled, licensed, and also documented by people who understand the profession, the organisation of the Association of Turkey's Goldsmiths needs to be organised, and yet, the law of jewelry and regulations that control the profession must be put into effect as soon as possible. One of the most important problems with jewelry is that it has to do with the settings. According to the 2008 arrangement, Turkey is standard in...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0004par0034	Mr. Dogan, thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0003par0035	Can I have another minute?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0004par0036	No way.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0003par0037	Okay.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0004par0038	Thank you very much, Mr. Doğan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The second unscheduled statement belongs to Army MP Ergün Taşcı, who wants to speak on behalf of Azerbaijan National Liberation Day. Here you go, Mr. Stoneman.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0005par0044	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the esteemed MPs, Azerbaijan, on behalf of the National Liberation Day of Azerbaijan. I salute you all. Azerbaijan and I are brothers and sisters who support each other in all areas as one nation. Common bloodlines, language, faith, culture, history, patterns, and customs connect these two countries. The basis for Azerbaijan and Turkey's brother country is historical ties, mutual initiatives and unwavering will. Azerbaijan leader Haydar Aliyev (Azerbaijan) voiced a nation, two states. The expression is a clear reflection of the characteristics of the two states. Azerbaijan's relationship with his brothers in Anatolia has been expressed by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk as our joy and grief. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, Azerbaijan and Turkey, as they did yesterday, overcome all kinds of difficulties by acting side by side. In the wars of the First World and Çanakkale, our Azerbaijan volunteers fought alongside the Turkish forces, showing great heroism. At the time, when the Armenian Stones occupied Baku, with the help of the Bolsheviks, committed genocide against the Azerbaijans in March 1918 and brutally killed tens of thousands of our descendants, the Kafkas Islamic Army, under the command of Nuri Pasha, came to the aid of the Azerbaijan brothers. The Bolshevik Russia that can't digest it...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0006par0048	Mr. Stoneman, wait a minute... Congressmans, there's a big hum in the hall. Please, please...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0007par0050	There's a big conversation in that corner.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0006par0051	Please... Congressmans, please continue your conversation in the lobby. Please... Here you go, Mr. Stoneman. I'll add it to your time.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0008par0055	The unsatisfactory Bolshevik Russia overturned the Azerbaijan national government on April 27, 1920, making mass arrests and massacres. As a result, the people of Azerbaijan suffered for 70 years, suffering and poverty. When the dates showed 1991, Azerbaijan regained his independence 70 years later and became the first country to recognise Azerbaijan. In 1993, during the civil war and chaos of Azerbaijan, Haydar Aliyev Nahcivan, the national leader of Azerbaijan, was invited to Baku, and was elected president of the Ali Assembly. Since this day when Azerbaijan's fate changed, the conflict and civil war ended in Azerbaijan because of the leadership of Aliyev (Azerbaijan). Thus, this historic development has been declared the National Liberation Day by the Azerbaijan people. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have taken political, military, economic, social steps between Turkey and Azerbaijan over the past period, and important projects have been carried out on a regional scale. Creative co-operation and solidarity between the two countries on international and regional platforms has shown itself in almost everything, supporting the Azerbaijan of Turkey and Azerbaijan of Turkey. In this context, Turkey has defended Azerbaijan's righteous trial on every platform in the issue of Karabağ, in which Armenia supported the separatist activities of Armenians and occupied 20 per cent of Azerbaijan territory. Because the problem of Mount Karabağ is not only a part of Armenia's occupation of Azerbaijan lands, but also part of the geopolitical domination battle of regional and global forces in South Caucasus. On the other hand, in the last two hundred years, Turkey and Azerbaijan have witnessed different historical developments, but since the early 20th century, both states have had to deal with the Armenian problem. The so-called Armenian genocide plans, which were adopted by different countries regarding the 1915 events that caused the Turks and Armenians to suffer in the very special circumstances of World War I a hundred years ago, are the shame and abuse of political materials, written by a biased and distant approach from historical facts. Mr. President, it is with this occasion that we celebrate the Day of Independence of our Azeybaycan brothers, the first President of Azerbaijan, Ebulfez Eferbey, who has played a very important role in the independence of Azerbaijan. The flag that has been raised will not land again. The leader of the Kafkas Islamic Army, the hero of the Kafkas Islamic Army, Commander Nuri Pasha, the first President of Azerbaijan, welcomes the relationship between Turkey and Azerbaijan, the two states.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0009par0060	Thank you, Mr. Stoneman. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, who wants to talk about developments in the export and incentive system. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0010par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops on the progress of the export and incentive system. I salute the grand jury. Following the release of the first quarter growth figures, the so-called third-rate growth of Europe, it has been admitted that some measures for incentives have been taken in the economy. The AKP is the one who cannot manage the economy within its normal flow. In some countries in crisis, extraordinary incentives to attract foreign investment and pave the way for production exports have become mandatory. If everything is good in the economy and we're getting five percent bigger, why do we need to take these measures immediately? Do we know what these measures will cost our country, taxpayers? Will these measures be implemented to stimulate the economy or to give a number of people privileged opportunities? Will equality, justice, and competition be harmed in the economy? In terms of foreign trade and investment policies, the measures for Band-Aids are not necessary, but are highly radical and radical. In blocked export markets, rising currency and inflation, foreign resource dependency and the foreign debt of the private sector are the biggest risk and vulnerability in the economy. Exports have lost blood. The export markets blocked by AKP's external-dependent economic policies and faulty foreign policy ring alarm bells for Turkey's economy. The AKP has withdrawn 70 billion dollars in the medium-term programme, targeting exports of $277 billion in the plan that was launched just two years ago. Dear MPs, during the AKP period, not only were trenches dug in the southeast, but were dug in foreign trade and economy. Our exports have become highly dependent on the processing regime. Investments have been moved from manufacturing industry to non-profit areas. The national income share of the manufacturing industry has been reduced to 15 per cent. The Adeta industrialisation strategy has been followed. The technology level of production, exports, has dropped. It's a process regime, including another bleeding wound of foreign trade. In 13 years, it has reached the extent of some sectors of exports to cover 70 per cent. A year's loss is $15 billion for businessmen. The number of documents closed to all documents was 70 per cent in previous years, while in 2015 the number of documents was down to 8 per cent. The foreign policy, visionless approach by the AKP government, in particular in the last five years, has left Turkey and our region in the world isolated and discredited. This has reflected about 15 billion dollars in cost only to our exporters in the last three years. We got into a fight with five of the top 15 countries we exported to. Turkey is no longer receiving tenders from those countries where it is at odds, and tourists are no longer coming to Turkey. The AKP has also caused a huge reduction in direct investments in the country. In the first four months of the year, foreign direct investments have been reduced by 45 per cent. In national revenues, investments are negative; we're growing on consumption. The AKP government has changed investment incentives three times since 2012, but the incentive system has not met its goals, the high-velocity value of strategic investments has not been improved, the share of advanced technology products has not been increased. When we look at the regions, 77 percent of the incentive documents were given to 1, 2, 3, and 60 percent of the fixed investments are in these 3 regions, 67% of the employment created in incentive investments is still in these 3 regions. In 4, 5, 6, investments were not encouraged. Now, what I'm trying to say here is that the investor wants high incentives for the transfer of technology at all costs. Now their goal was 2023 in the debt of honor. The ministers, indeed, had previously made a statement saying, "It was a dream." Now the ministers don't know what to say, and they certainly don't stop being targets anymore. I give you all my regards, thank you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0011par0076	Thank you. Congressmans, right now, I'm going to promise 15 members of parliament who have entered the system a minute of their position, and then I'm going to promise the group's deputy presidents two more minutes if they get into the system. Mr. Engin, please, we'll start with you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0012par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. In the last few days, dozens of high schools have supported the declarations of Istanbul's Boys High School students that they will not submit to the pressure. The economic, social, and political problems we face in our country today are based on the outdated education system that mortgages our future. While developed countries are competing to best education for their young, for the best in science, technology in the world, in our country, the AKP government is calling for more children. It aims to raise generations of non-questioning, non-thinking, non-profits. However, from pre-school to higher education, our entire education system needs to be reformed from a... from a.. from a.. from a.. to a.. to be targeted by creative generations who question, investigate, research, and think freely. I wish that this movement, which began in our high schools, would give us the opportunity to discuss problems in our educational system. Greetings from the council to all our high schools.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0013par0084	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0014par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Sadly, I see that the secular republic established by the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is under great threat. The explanations confirm that. The preparations for the new constitution show that the traces of Ataturk have been tried to erase. In a television channel, Mehmet Ukukum, the chief advisor of President Erdoğan, announced that the new constitution would not refer to the Ataturk ideology, and deepened our concerns. According to the statement, only Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is the founding leader of the Republic of Turkey. And I say that no one will be able to lift up the republic that Ataturk had established, nor to wipe out Ataturk (Ataturk) from our hearts.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0015par0089	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0016par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. If you're going to bring the presidential system on a television channel like in the U.S., bring it in, we'll sit down, we'll discuss it. Mr. Prime Minister, we've ordered the US presidential system, as long as the unitary structure is protected, and you're welcome. He said, "Let's go!" So, in the same maneuver that we've always been used to, we want the parliamentary system established by our ancestors. He said, "Let's go!" All of this suggests that the CHP has no road map on the new constitution and presidential system, but is also very confused. The goal is to block the new constitution based on the presidential system, which will ensure the unconditional and unconditional sovereignty of the national will. On this occasion, the liberal, participant new constitution based on the presidential system calls for support, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0017par0094	Thank you. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0018par0097	Thank you. Nine schools in Osmangazi district are being turned into imam-hatip schools, despite objections from parents. In this regard, yesterday in Akpınar, parents use their democratic rights to open a signing booth and police officers from Osmangazi Municipality are outstripping their duties and interfering with these guardians. On top of that, if that's not enough, we'll release the marketers to you. They're making threats like that. We want everyone to know that we will always stand by our citizens who seek their rights against these tyrannys, and we will always fight against being bullied and imposed on the people what they don't want.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0019par0100	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0020par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, Hatay County has one of Turkey's largest ports and two important customs doors. However, because of the war in Syria, the border doors are closed. It is imperative that the economy of Hatay County, which has suffered a recession in its economy, be revived by new projects. Therefore, the opening of a free zone in Hatay, which is exempt from many administrative and legal regulations and can lead investors to the region, would be one of the key supports to our province of Hatay. I demand to encourage investment and production for exports and to start the work needed to open a free zone that will accelerate direct foreign investments and access to technology. My respects, thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0021par0105	Thank you. Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0022par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, the two states are the National Liberation Day of Azerbaijan, which we have always called the one nation, called the one nation. I sincerely celebrate the National Liberation Day of the Republic of Azerbaijan, which restored state sovereignty in 1991 at great cost. Our Azerbaijan brothers are now past the difficult times, having the right pride of having a state that is both regional and internationally successful within the country. However, we never forget that the five-tenths of Azerbaijan territory is still occupied by Armenia and that over a million Azerbaijans have been displaced. On this occasion, we repeat our call for the immediate withdrawal of the Azerbaijan territory, which Armenia has occupied for nearly a quarter of an century. As always, we will continue to be with our Azerbaijan brothers in this righteous cause. I pray for the mercy of God to our Azerbaijan brothers, who have sacrificed their lives for their country, especially in the massacre of Hodjalı, and I greet the people of Azerbaijan with a greeting.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0023par0112	Mr. Gündüz...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0024par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Recent activities in high school as an excuse for project schools are part of a game. In 1980, a game was staged over high school youth, resulting in tens of thousands of young people being sentenced to streets and then to prisons. Supporting statements by some CHP MPs who were under the roof of our parliament yesterday are a sign that history has not been learned. Those who try to organize a game on young people should know that we do not send encouraging greetings of anarchy under the roof of parliament, rather than warning them to raise conscious young people and prevent provocation. As a member of a family who was victimised in the September 12, 1980 coup and a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I condemn these initiatives and address my younger brothers: You will direct the future of this country. It's not the streets, it's the knowledge, it's the wisdom. You need to grow up to be open to all kinds of innovation while you have your own values. You must have a Koran and a computer.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0025par0117	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0026par0119	It has been announced by the district of Balıkesir Dursunbey, that anthrax disease has been seen in a business in Hamzacık, from our rural neighborhoods in our district, so around 100 major animals have been destroyed and the region has been quarantined. It is known that anthrax is a very important disease in our animalism and that it is contagious, and that it will infect people because it is a zoonose disease. In the Balıkesir economy, animalism is very important. Balıkesir is among our highest boroughs of animal potential. Why was this disease not detected until 100 cattle were destroyed? The Protection and Fighting Rule against Anthrax Disease compels a series of measures to be taken, even if suspected of anthrax disease. Why can't the disease be detected until it reaches this extent? Such issues as whether this disease has anything to do with imported animals need to be cleared up. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0027par0122	Thank you. Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0028par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Applications have been received by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy for contracting personnel under the Family Social Support Programme. Some of the municipal offices on these applications have not even made an announcement on their websites, and some have shown that the announcements have been removed by the end of the week and have been removed from the websites within a day or two, with some of the municipal managerial offices listed in the form of an unpointed list of interviews as a result of preliminary applications. Do you think about three children who were asked in interviews, even as the preliminary application stage of the project was carried out? • Do you find that Turkey's Syrian policy is good for our country?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0027par0128	Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0029par0130	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers blame the Republican People's Party for the deaths of a thousand people in a year, including 540. Those responsible for all these blood and tears are the bastards who met with the PKK in Oslo, who signed agreements with the PKK in Dolmabahçe, who held terrorist welcomes in Habur, who met with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and met with the PKK. They are the ones who sent weapons to ISIS with MİT trucks, who welcomed Syrian terrorists as guests, who ignored them while they were hoarding bombs and weapons, who turned the country into a pool of blood because they couldn't extract the 400 MPs they wanted to become dictators. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0027par0132	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0030par0135	Mr. President, the precious lawmakers, we've recently been watching as an example that those who can't revenant their trip want to put them on the street using the most vulnerable young people in their education. No one can impose on our children, born in early 2000, their rotten views that the last century has corroded with coups. Those who want to provoke high schoolers into the street should try to get out of the trunk, not the street. Let no one use our children to their own political ambitions while the children of the high schoolers are having fun in the summer homes. I speak to our young men, don't believe those who call you to the street. Know that if she cries, my mother cries, and the rest lies.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0027par0138	Mr. Result...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0031par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Patients who come to Hatay Province and district centers for treatment are unable to get sufficient service due to the lack of necessary units or expert personnel and medical equipment, and especially because of the concentration of Syrian refugees in Hatay province. In this framework, how many patients who have applied to public hospitals have been transferred to other hospitals due to the lack of medical equipment, or the hail in intensive care units? How many of these patients died during the transfer and due to late intervention? Patients who want to be examined and tested for the intensity of Syrian refugees in hospitals are scheduled for weeks and months later and cannot be found in intensive care units. What study do you intend to do to prevent the problems of treatment and deaths caused by this inadequacy? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0032par0146	Thank you. Mr. Dudu...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0033par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. The iron steel industry has long been known to have a major crisis. In this sector, which is one of our country's locomotive sectors, major industrial facilities are either one by one cutting shifts or stopping activity. On the other hand, our import rate is increasing in iron steel. Nursan's company broke down and about 2,000 people were unemployed in the district of Payas, Hatay, which carried out about 55 per cent of our country's production of iron steel. What measures have the government taken, both in this firm's private and across the sector, and what do they intend to do after today?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0032par0151	Mr. Yilmaztekin...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0034par0153	Thank you. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, if they want to be the president of the American type of TV program five days ago, let them, but Erdoğan doesn't want it. If our Prime Minister is the type of American, then we're in. He responded in the form of the challenge! On the same day, do you want to divide the state system, Turkey, or not? We don't want you to ask us. Go on, explain. He answered in the form of the challenge! Dear lawmakers, I don't understand this statement, and I don't think political scientists will either. Because it's a very different case and a disaster. Yesterday, I send a political portrait that opposes what he proposes, which challenges what he proposes to himself, to the public's discretion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0035par0156	Thank you. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0036par0159	Mr. President Mehmet Uçım has made an unfortunate statement that the name of Ataturk will be taken out of all the articles of our Constitution, that only the Constitution as President will remain in the initial part of our Constitution, and that the changes in our Constitution will be made in this way. Let Mehmed Uçum know that no power can remove the name of Ataturk (Athaturk) from our Constitution. Everyone knows Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is our founding leader. Ataturk is a world-renowned leader, not only in Turkey. Therefore, no one will be able to remove the name of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has cost our people and the world from the Constitution. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0035par0161	Thank you. Mr. Bektasoglu...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0037par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP continues its attempt to bring its political ideology into every aspect of life in the most radical and successful high schools in our country. We said, "Don't bring politics into the mosques." We said, "Don't bring politics into the universities." We said, "We can't listen, they won't listen." Apparently, it's time to destroy dozens of our country's most successful schools with projects and methods, regression, pressure and censorship. As an epiphany of hegemonia, which the government is trying to build on society, thousands of young children, like us, object to the efforts of the curriculum to be removed from science as much pressure and practice on teachers as the students. They know that our students have turned their backs not to the principal, but to the power that has brought politics into the school itself, and the police raid has driven their young hearts into a hurry to silence them with fear and oppression. We all know that our schools have never had a political stance and that our country is a hundred-white institution with its successes. We say, "Don't use our children to use your policies to destroy everything that is successful." Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0038par0167	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who have entered the system. Mr. Akçay, come in. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0039par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. Real issues are also ignored in our country, which is occupied with virtual agendas and false problems. However, it is good for our country to return to its true agenda and be busy with the main issues. We see that the government is not busy with the country's real agenda, that it can't be, and that we're no longer curious as to why a representative from the government is not present in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you the same question: why isn't the government present? Turkey's economy caught virtual growth with a model based on consumption and debt. With this growth model, Turkey's economy has gradually moved away from production. The industrial industry, this growth model that left production out, has finally entered into a major financial and debt crisis. Most of our industry's operating profits go to funding spending. So much so that the financing costs have increased by 75 percent over the previous year. It signals danger. So the industrialist spent more than 63 per cent of its profits as financing expenses. During this period, companies' short-term loans to banks increased by 18 per cent and long-term loans by 25 per cent.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0040par0176	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0039par0177	Thank you. Companies' commission costs have increased by 22 per cent, financing costs by 62 per cent. Short-term financing costs have increased by 58 per cent, long-term financing costs by 93 per cent, and financing costs totalled more than 130 billion. It's a very serious crisis, given the corporate tax they pay and so on. Another important issue is the external debt data of the private sector. As of the end of 2015, the private sector's total stockpile of foreign debt increased to 283 billion dollars, short-term 88 billion, long-term $195 billion. In 2015, the foreign debt of the private sector -- $720 billion -- was 40 per cent of the national income, given the number of national revenues. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Then the time ended, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0041par0183	Thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0042par0186	Thank you, Mr. President. Recently, the fact that our students in high schools in Turkey have issued a statement on democratic, secular, scientific requests for education seems to have caused a disturbance in the government's environment and members of the ruling party. First of all, I'd like to point out that high schoolers haven't been out on the street yet, Mr. Lawmakers. I don't want them to spill either, but with that, you shouldn't be afraid of the street. The street is a democracy, of course, with the record and the condition of peace. However, there is no way you can avoid any dissatisfaction with the administration with external maharajah paranoia, parallel allegations, terrorist charges. Of course, a youth who is not biat and obedient, but questioning and critical is the future of Turkey, the youth that Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has entrusted to the republic. Young people don't have to swear to you, they don't have to obey you. I strongly doubt that young people have a part of the rebellious spirit that comes from their age, from their insane blood, that they have to make demands for their rights, with such paranoia, with such a terrorist charge, if you will. It's a syndrome, a paranoia. The government and the ruling party need to get rid of this paranoia first. Don't be afraid, no high school student will bleed anyone's nose, it's not their job to bleed. However, Mr. President, the MPs, Azerbaijan...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0043par0191	One more minute, Mr. Altay. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0042par0193	However, we celebrate and congratulate Azerbaijan National Day as the Republican People's Party Group. As always, the two states are a one-nation scheme that we internalize. I send my regards to the Azerbaijan people from here, from the Republican People's Party Group. The last word is about what the President's advisor said. Let the counselor look at this: Have him take a survey of 23 million voters who voted for the Justice and Development Party, and the voters who voted for the Justice and Development Party will see that they internalise Ataturk (Ataturk) and the secular quality of the republic. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0044par0196	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0045par0199	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the resistance of June 15th to 16th was a historic rebellion by workers, a major resistance to the strengthening of the union bureaucracy by the state's hands forty-six years ago. One of the biggest resistances in the history of the working class of Turkey was the resistance of June 15-16, after the passing of the Labour Law and Trade Unions Law, which regulates working life and fundamental trade unions' legislation, and after the passing of the National Assembly and Senate. The change was significantly restricting the workers' freedom to choose a union and making it difficult to change the union. We salute this great historical resistance of the Turkish working class once again today. In the attacks by state forces at that time, three workers, workers, died, and we remember them with mercy. We would like to express that we, the HDP, have followed the struggle of the working class today with great honor. On the other hand, political genocide operations, which have been under the direction of the AKP government for a long time, continue. So far, nearly 1,500 friends from our party have been arrested, more than 5,000 have been taken into custody. A political genocide operation involving the Socialist Party of the Crushers, one of the components of our party, and members of the MYK and party assembly today, has been launched by security forces ordered by the AKP. 14 ESP officials have been taken into custody. Likewise, detention and arrest of university students continue in Isparta. We're condemning these political genocide operations...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0046par0203	I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0045par0205	...that the AKP government will never get any results from them, and that they will stop these genocide operations as soon as possible, and that's what I'm calling it. Mr. President, today, our Mush MP Ahmet Yıldırım and two members of parliament with him, his co-workers, have faced a police attack in Mush. Without a written search warrant, our MP's vehicle has been asked to be searched, and as a result of our MP's objection to this illegality, the official vehicle registered to parliament has been requested to be connected. Our MP is already following the necessary political stance and legal process against this illegality, but right now two of our MP's co-workers have been taken into custody as a result of this illegal approach by the police. And during all this procedure, we've been able to get our congressman to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in an ugly, disrespectful manner. In particular, I would like to remind you that the immunity process of lawmakers who have been denied immunity from the coup offer here is only related to relevant files. Other than that, I'd like to state that the whole process of law enforcement, police, security forces, in this way, without law, of searching for the MP's vehicle, threatening, insulting the MP, or detaining his co-workers is unacceptable. The AKP government is planting wind. He who sows the wind reaps the storm. There is not a single member of our party, nor a single citizen of our people, who will bow to it, bow to it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0047par0211	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0048par0214	Mr. President, thank you. Turkey has 700,000 teachers, millions of high school students. The AK PARTY has been in power for 14 years. The way we look at education, the idea is to raise free generations of conscience. Turkey is not a tent state, but we have 80 million people, and what is sociological tissue here is, in the sense of power and the need for social values that the AK PARTI is leaning on, in a way that suits the sociological structure. Thus, as the education curriculum in upper secondary schools is prepared, the common values of society are, of course, taken into consideration, all of which are shaped in the framework of scientific processes, put into practice in light of the references of education, modern education standards. Different activities can be requested in high school; let's not do that, let's do that. There's a way and a way. There are school administrations, there are teachers, there are family groups, there are students themselves, and in this framework, if there are problems, they can be solved. But organizedly, if someone, some centers, wants to put high schoolers on the street, it's not about education anymore, it's about law. That's what I want to draw attention to. Of course, the streets are a place of democratic demonstrations, as long as it's done in accordance with the law, but I don't want this kind of evaluation to be understood in the capacity to bring high school students to the street. High school students are not people who have just come up with ideas about politics, so they're not in a position to stand on the street long enough to fall behind any conclusions.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0049par0218	Mr. Bostanci, I'll give you one more minute. Please, complete.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0048par0220	Citizens, of course, in the streets, in the squares, in accordance with the law, if there's a problem with high schools, they can say that, democratically, but high schoolers are not welcome on the street. If high schoolers have problems, they need to solve them within the framework of teachers, administration and family units, not within the framework of the National Education Directorate and the Ministry. Therefore, it is wrong to approach the issue this way, to pretend that you want to solve a job in high school education, and to engage in other forms of whims and desires other than here, which are of no use to the country, nor to the high schoolers. On the other hand, the AK PARTY has no problem with Ataturk. It's a free country, people can speak their mind, but the AK PARTY has been in power and execution for 14 years. He became the late President of Ozal, he became the Prime Minister, and someone kept saying, "You have a secret agent." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Does Ozal have a secret agenda? No. He's dead, he's dead, he's done what he's done. The AK PARTY has been in line for 14 years, a government that acts on a line that matches the values of this country. You don't have to dream about things. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0050par0225	Thank you. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of parliament, the report on the resignation of Sakarya MP Şaban Dharkli of the European Union's Integration Commission on 14/6/2016 and the resignation of Balıkesir MP of Şıkesir from KİR Commission has reached our presidency on 15/6/2016. It's for your information. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I will have the motions read separately. Since the parliamentary research motions I shall have read in the second and third row are more than 500 words, the summary of the motions will be read, but the full text of the motions will be included in the Journal of Tutorak. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our milk producers across the country are having a very difficult time because of the agricultural and animalism policies that have been implemented in recent years. The National Milk Council, created by milk producers, associations, cooperatives and industrialists to work within the framework of national agricultural policies stated in Agriculture Law 18/4/2006, determines the price of raw milk in our country, as well as research and education institutions for real or corporate representatives who belong to them, occupational rooms, consumer organisations and public institutions and organisations. On September 30, 2015, the National Milk Council meeting to discuss the price of raw milk reference ended before the board of directors of the National Milk Council announced that the price of milk was high and asked that the industrialists be reduced 10 cents, while producer representatives said the price should be increased by 10 cents. Thus, since July 1, 2014, there has been no change in the price of raw milk at $1.15. However, as a result of a meeting with the Central Association of Agriculture Cooperatives' milk industry, the price of cooling milk has been reduced by 3 cents in the provinces of 40lareli, Edirne, Tekirdağ, Çanakkale, on December 1, 2015, due to the decline of milk prices in Anatolia. On 1 January 2016, milk prices will be lowered by 2 cents more, and prices will continue this way until 1 June 2016. Although production costs have been increasing for a year and a half, no increase in milk prices, stay still and even want to be pulled down is a victim to the milk manufacturer. Therefore, the number of companies producing has fallen. In 2011, there were 401,000 production companies, and in 2012, it fell to 405,000 businesses and 376,000 businesses in 2015. The number of cattle and milk production has been severely reduced for years. Despite all technological advances, the need for manpower and effort in livestock are high, while the profit rate is low. A large population of milk producers is in great straits because of the lack of production costs of raw milk, the loss of the Milk Council, the lack of industrial pressure on the milk producer, the lack of support for family businesses, the lack of stability in the market. We respectfully present the situation of the milk producers and the National Milk Council across Turkey by establishing a research commission based on the 98th Article of our Constitution and the Article 204th and 105th Articles of our Civil Law to ensure that our producers do not have such difficulties in the coming period. [[Edirne]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Eskişehir]] 4) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Antalya]] 9) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] [[Antalya]] [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Manisa]] 15) Gamze Akkuş İsgez [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 17) Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 18) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[İzmir]] [[Sivas]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Balıkesir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the opening of the Parliament's research commission on the quality of staff employed in disabled rehabilitation centers, nursing homes and children's homes in Turkey and on the investigation of the violence committed in the same institutions, under Article 104 of the Constitution and Article 105 of the Civil Code. 23/12/2015 1) Fatma Kaplan Liberty [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Çanakkale]] 5) Zülfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[Janitor]] [[Antalya]] 8) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] 9) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sivas]] [[Mughle]] 13) Brült Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] 15) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Denizli]] 17) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Burdur]] There are 93 private care centres in Turkey, while 153 private care centres are operating. In addition, 82 hope-houses serve our disabled citizens. According to the Report on Briefing, 450,036 people are being cared for in their homes. As of November 2014, 149 receive 10,277 disabled individual care services at private care centres. Again, as of November 2014, there are 4,261 maintenance staff members at 85 public care and rehabilitation centres. For every 6 disabled individuals given care care services are employed by taking care of the day-care staff so that there will be 1 day-care staff per shift. The disabled rehabilitation centre in Turkey cannot prevent violent incidents in which the quality of staff employed in nursing homes and children's homes is determined by special service tenders. The example of this was last seen in torture at Köseköy Youth Education and Rehab Centre, which operates on the border of Koseköy's Kartepe district. In the past few years, the emergence of torture footage from many nursing homes and rehabilitation centers has also raised questions about the nature of staff working in institutions. It is also clear that the nature of hundreds of disabled rehabilitation centres, nursing homes and children's homes in Turkey cannot prevent violence from being determined by special service tenders. Instead, it is necessary to understand that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy should open a special and qualified staff within its ministry and form their own trusted staff on humanitarian care. Otherwise, it's obvious that it's not going to work out with the contractors. For this reason, we would like to point out that the Department of Family and Social Policy's private-service contractor system, the quality of staff employed in rehabilitation centers, nursing homes and children's homes, and the investigation of violence in the same institutions are a priority issue, and the problems with the Council research commission will be reduced to a minimum. Yours truly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Unional rights are fundamental human rights that are universally accepted. In many international documents and contracts, union rights have been guaranteed directly or indirectly. The agreements and recommendations agreed by the ILO on union rights and the decisions made by the control bodies are international legal norms, a basic reference in collective working relations. Even though ILO Convention 98 is signed with the ILO Convention number 87, which is a basic contract on union rights, there are still several anti-union policies being implemented by employers and governments at times and are being interfered with trade union activities. Turkey is among the countries in which these applications are seen. Unional rights violations in Turkey are making trade unionism, which is already powerless, even weaker, causing workers to get away from the unions. The violations of union rights and freedoms come not only in the last decade, but as the most troubling rights and freedoms for rights and freedoms following the coup of September 12, 1980. In particular, collective rights of employees (including collective rights of action, including cooperation, collective bargaining and strike) are sometimes banned completely, limited at a time when it cannot be completely banned or recognised on paper. In particular, according to calculations based on the number of workers under the collective contract of employment, the number of workers included in the collective contract was 1.6 million in 1988, while in 2015 the number of workers was reduced to 800,000. According to OECD data, the lowest country in unionisation has been Turkey with a 5.4 per cent unionisation rate, and unionisation in Turkey has declined by 43 per cent between 2002 and 15 per cent. Thousands of workers have lost their jobs due to the use of their right to organize, and judicial decisions have not returned to their jobs, even though they have confirmed it. The use of organizational rights and freedom, which is one of the most fundamental rights to be protected by our state, stemming from the Constitution and international contracts for workers, also leads to the removal of another right and freedom; it is the right to work. Unfortunately, these rights and freedoms are now only on paper in Turkey. In the post-2002 period, when the AKP alone was the government, there was a serious depletion of union rights. The results of this wearout are both striking in terms of both qualitative (equal, application, social-political effect) and quantitative (integration, collective contract coverage). Turkey is at a far earlier level in its unionisation rates than in the decade after September 12th military coup (1980). The most democratic rights of employees are to prevent organisation and the use of collective bargaining rights, in effect bans are being introduced, they face restrictions from legislation. However, when workers join the unions to use their rights to organize, the state is taking on a variety of methods to prevent employees from using these rights because of the current legislation with the employers. For this reason, the Unions and Community Contract Act No. 6356, the Unions and the Union of Public Servants' Unions 4688, and the Common Contract Act No. 4857, and other legislation related to working life and other legislation, we propose, therefore, that a parliamentary study of the Constitution be opened under Articles 104, 105, and 105, in order to establish the right of employees' right to be formed and to develop solution proposals in this regard. [[İstanbul]] 2) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] [[Kayseri]] [[Zonguldak]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] 7) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Ankara]] [[Burdur]] 14) Gamze Akkuş Isgez [[İstanbul]] 15) Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 24) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday 15/6/2016 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On June 6, 2016, a proposal for parliamentary research to be submitted to Turkey's Grand National Assembly in order to determine a new area for Syrian refugees' housing centre, given by Siirt MP Besime Konca and her friends, has been suggested to be read in the same session Wednesday (June 15/6/2016) and presented in the same-date joint of the talks to the General Assembly for the information of the General Assembly. Peoples' Democratic Party Group's proposal will first speak for İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0051par0418	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the setting of a new housing centre for Syrian refugees, a group proposal by the People's Democratic Party. You know, today, I begin to speak with respect to the anniversary of the Turkish working class's 15-16 June resistance, this honorable class resistance. Dear MPs, the city of Alevi is now in the middle of 16 villages in the District of Kahramanmarash Pazarcık, where our citizens live heavily. A container of 27,000 people capable of Syrian refugees has begun construction. The land is the only field used by the people of the region, whose livelihood is agriculture and livestock, and its environment consists of first-class farmland, which is watery. According to the district chiefs, all attempts by the governor's office, written or verbally, have been ineffective since they were informed of this decision, which had been made beyond the approval of the residents. In response to the appeals filed, 16 residences, which could have been considered a housing centre of the State of Maraş on December 23, 2015, have been examined, and work on the location of the Prime Ministerate's AFAD presidency continues. As of this time, all work has been carried out, unfortunately, hidden from the people of the region. Dear lawmakers, when the lawyer's report is reviewed, the tender date is very important -- 29/2/2016, the contract date is 17/3/2016, and the land has been removed from the mera quality on 18/3/2016, so it's being tendered before it's removed from the mera quality, sir, I'm giving this to you, it's a very important issue. I'm afraid there's no CED report on the land that was auctioned off before the Mera was released. The people of the region, who are not included in all of these decision-making processes, continue to seek rights on a legal level by suing, while expressing their democratic and righteous demands through peaceful mass protests. On April 3, 2016, an 82-year-old citizen named Mor Ali Kabyel, who had been affected by the gas bomb and pressured water of the gendarmes who were protesting the construction of the people, had unfortunately lost his life and walked to Hakk. Mera, as well as economic reasons for responses to the removal of grass and fertile land, security concerns are justified. Because it supports these concerns that the region stands at the key point of transition to Syria in Adıyaman, Antalya, Kilis triangle, as the media claimed from the AFAD camps, where their hatred and violent massacres were evident against Alevis were the most important human source of activity and organizational work. Again, it has been reported that in the coming months, it has been reported that similar AFAD camps have been planned in the Akçadağ districts of Malatya, Sivas, Divricik, Imranlı, Zara and Yıldızeli, where the people of Alevi are living, in particular, in the coming months, and in this regard, land work has been announced by the governorates, by the villagers who have been working for the governor. Dear lawmakers have different sociological tissues in this area, where the 1978 Maraş massacre remains on memory, where our Alevi citizens live, with a population of about 3,000 people. And it's clear that this camp will clearly change the demographic structure, and we're considering it as an attempt to change a demographic structure, a certain demographic structure. Given the need for the state's self-existence of life and property safety, it is vital that the current situation, as we have explained above, be evaluated in the economic dimension, along with all these historical and sociological processes. See, on the list of 21 people wanted in Turkey, Mahmoud Gazi Tatar, an ISIS terrorist organization militant, stated that he had met ISIS in the AFAD camp. Mahmut Gazi Tatar, born in Adıyaman, 1991, was a student in technology at Adıyaman University, while working at Adıyaman University, while working at AFAD camps, stated that he had met and changed his life. Again, an ISIS militia killed in Kobani was issued with a housing card saying it was staying at Akchakale AFAD facilities. While the cases of Maras, Çorum, Sivas and Vezi have occurred, the Alevis seem to have invited this camp to a possible sectal conflict every day while trying to be intimidated by threats and pressures. The people of Turkey can no longer handle a new conflict that will create such an infinitive. From here, construction of the Syrian refugee camp (known as Lower Terolar) must be stopped. A new process, which has been used by the people of the region, is to be examined and rearranged by the legal dimension of the process of losing this quality of the field, and to be involved in the decision-making process of the people of the region. The shelter for Syrian refugees must also be taken into consideration of all sections of society and set a new area. Now, there's a platform set up on this Sunday, where the esteemed MPs visited the National Guard platform, our group and other party groups, and I think they visited CHP yesterday -- I don't know if they visited the AK PARTY -- and they visited our party group, an 80-member delegation, the people of the Teros, the young, the elderly, they all came together and told us about their problems. When they consider the fact that ISIS and DAEŞ gangs can live in these camps very comfortably... you know, these DAEŞ and ISIS gangs, they know very well what the massacres of Flames in Syria are like, the massacres of Ezidi. It's natural for people in the region to face such a thing after a Marasian massacre had occurred. Now, he's not doing any work... as a government, if you're going to build a camp like this, it's a need, actually, that's how our party looks, and those refugee people who come there need to be met. The fact that these people, who are not even refugees, who have not even reached that position legally, have been taken from their homes, come here...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0052par0428	Let's set it up for Rize, to Rize.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0051par0429	Of course, it's our duty to protect them, to make sure they live honorably. But why do you build these camps in the Alevi regions, and why do you do them? So here's an area where animals can spread, graze, why do you set it as an urban thing or a campsite? This is, of course, a policy that we think is set up by a great policy... that will upset the Alevi population there... 3,000 people live there, and you're trying to accommodate 27,000 people. It corrupts demographics, damages our social tissue, people say. Alevi, Sunni, all together... only the Alevis are not really nervous about it there. They say we've lived together for years, thousands of years, a society, a kind of spiritual formation, we've reached a social texture, no matter what you say, no matter what you say, we're a community of values of life together, but this new structure is far away from us. They are human, too, but we find it correct that they should be inhabited elsewhere, in a more suitable geography. The government is said to be working 16 areas, 16 locations. We were not informed of the workspace as well as the location of those working areas, although we applied in writing, we were not informed of what field they were working in. You bring this camp into the center of the Terolar, and into the field of the mera; it is not right. The people's demand, this mera area... it may not be possible to restore that corrupted field to agricultural land... because the topography is really broken, and there it is, taken over plant soil, and the rubble has been laid out. What is to be done is you will leave this place to the villagers to be offered to urban and social services, and it is the public's request that this camp be abandoned. The people of the teros say we don't want to camp here. We, the people we've lived with for thousands of years, do not want our social tissue to be corrupted. I salute you all. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Thank you. The first speaker against the People's Democratic Party's group proposal will be Mr. Fahrettin Oguz Tor, deputy of Kahramanmarash. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0053par0436	Mr. President, in order to determine a new area for the Syrian refugee camp in the village of Kışceheşık district of our Kahramanmarash, I have taken the oath of the Peoples' Democratic Party on behalf of the HDP Group's proposal for the opening of the Parliament's investigation under the legal scope of the loss of this area used by the people and on behalf of the Syrian refugees, which are involved in the decision-making processes of the people of the region. I hereby congratulate the commander of the Turkish Islamic world from the bottom of my heart, calling for peace and blessings. I salute you and our beloved nation watching us on the screen. Dear MPs, before we get to the point, I would like to briefly explain how the Syrian civil war began, when it began, who it was, who it was, the scope, the prediction of the government of the Republic of Turkey, what its policy is. Because not only is the immigration camp a result of Syrian domestic policy in many parts of our country, but in many parts of Turkey. The conflict, which has been limited to foreign forces such as Russia, Iran, the U.S., began on 15 March 2011 and spread across the country, followed by ISIS, Al Nusra and some Kurds, Turkmen, Dürzi and Suryani groups, who were loyal to the Syrian Baas Party and the militants who wanted to take this party down from power. In April 2011, the Syrian army was deployed to quell the uprising, and the soldiers opened fire on demonstrators across the country, after months of military sieges and oppression, demonstrations turned into armed riots. According to the United Nations, the death toll was more than 220,000 at the time of January 2015, and according to another centre's research, the total number of people who died indirectly or indirectly due to the Syrian civil war was 470,000 as of February 2016. Millions have left their country and become immigrants. In our heromarash, there are also 18,000 Syrian citizens living outside refugee camps -- many of whom are unknown. Dear MPs, the summary of Turkey's Syrian policy is hidden in the Prime Minister's statement. The Prime Minister's statement says: "If God wills, we will go to Damascus and embrace our brothers and sisters there as soon as possible. And that day is close. Let us pray in the mosque of Emevi, and in the tomb of Salahattin Ayyubi. We will pray freely for our brothers at the Temple of Bilal-i Abyssin, at the Temple of Ibn-Arabil, at the Ashtem of Solomonia, at the Hijaz Railway Station. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm afraid that's not the case. We will go to Damascus very soon, and pray in Emevi Mosque, and visit the shrines. What was the situation before? I also want to say this briefly, the situation earlier: Yes, the visit of the Erdogan family to the family of Assad is also past the Assad family's Bodrum holidays. Joint Council of Ministers meetings between the two countries could not be carried out more than 50 (50) documents signed, but after the tension in Syria in March 2011, Davutoglu was cancelled after Assad's meeting in August -- with Damascus -- after an Assad meeting. Yes, after that, Davutoglu tried to organize Syrian dissidents and the international community, but over the past four years, these dreams have revealed a whole new set of facts in the field. The Turkish AKP government's up-and-coming Syrian policy in 2011 has unfortunately caused disappointment, we must point out. It's such a disappointment that you can't help but feel sorry for yourself. Turkey has gone through a lot of trouble because of its bankrupt Syrian policy. There's talk of $10 billion here. Therefore, the AKP government must apologize to the Turkish nation for its bankrupt policy and the suffering of the Turkish nation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's more. Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu has made a statement to the BBC: "We do not want the PKK, the PYD, ISIS, and the Syrian regime as neighbours." That's our prayer, that's what the government's zeal should be, but I don't think there should be any more neglect like passing terrorists to Kobani, if that's the real goal. Dear lawmakers, the problem we're going to talk about today is the result of the bankruptcy of Syrian policy. I'd like to start by explaining the situation of the refugee camp today. Now, on 31/12/2012 -- of course, as in Osmaniye and elsewhere -- our heromarash was decided to build a refugee camp. You need land, you need tenting, and in the talks held in Kahramanmarash, a total area of 1,550 acres of the Small Industrial Building Cooperate was allowed to be established on 31/12/2012, with the protocol signed by Governor Şükrü Kostepe, which allowed the tent to be established for only six months, provided it stays for six months. The tent city would only remain on the site of the Industrial Construction Cooperative for six months, but it was four and a half years since we arrived today from 31/12/2012, and the site of the Industrial Site was not abandoned. Small Industrial Site has planned, done its project, is stuck, has been working on it for years, wants to build a business there, but there's a refugee camp, he can't do it. So, moving the refugee camp from here has become a necessity, but where will the refugee camp go? It's been investigated, it's been chosen to be the village of Down Pointy. Now, of course, for example, right now, around the refugee camp, some of the individuals are doing their jobs -- I mean the refugee camp in Marash by their own means. There's been a lot of controversy here, there's some serious allegations, and I'd like to put it briefly here, in public, about the refugee camp to this village of Mosquito. The first of the allegations is that the fact that they are in the center of the city and working is allowed to provide and easily meet daily food, education, and security needs, while they are now placed in a smaller area 22km away from the city without having their opinion taken away from them in any way. This violates the basic principle of the protection of refugee rights and family life. It's called, there is a claim. Another claim: the area where the camp is being built is a mera of the village, and around the meadow are fertile farmlands where all kinds of production can be made. The village's livelihood is agriculture and livestock, and this area is essential for this economic activity. The removal of this area from its mera quality and turning it into a campsite could lead to forced migrations. Of course, the mera is done over a shaved hill. Around it, yes, there are farmlands, and the counteroffensive is that the farmland is unharmed. In addition, there are allegations that while they are being made here, local citizens are not allowed to accept their views, so there is no participation. Yes, the construction of the camp was attempted by hiding from the locals and by making false statements in person. There are allegations in the form of the camp. The construction of the camp site was illegally launched, tendered and continued. There are allegations. There are also allegations that the expert reports -- the city planner's expert, the agricultural expert, the geology engineer, the science expert -- are against it. Another claim -- I have to say a counter bet here -- is said to be not in the amount of the local population, many of the local population is alleged to be abroad. I just want to say that no one is sad, no nose bleeds, and suhuletes should approach the matter and be resolved, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0054par0450	Thank you, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0055par0451	Mr. President, I demand a statement from my position according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0054par0452	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0055par0456	Thank you. Mr. President, as the General Assembly opened, I spoke of political genocide operations against the Socialist Party's officials and the police pressure against our MP Ahmet Yıldırım. Now our friends have given us a new message. There was also a raid on the home of our Co-Chair Figen Yüksekdağ, which was known as his residence address, as part of the operations against ESP. A raid on the home of the co-chair of a 6 million-voted political party is a low-down bandit, a raid on the home of all 6 million. We're dealing with an example of bandits who are trying to completely purge democratic politics, who are trying to deepen chaos, irreparability, war.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0054par0459	I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0055par0460	A complete mental eclipse, an example of total lawlessness, has once again been revealed to the public of Turkey, along with this raid. We have an understanding that goes with gasoline to a fire. Where do those who raid the home of the leader of a political party, the co-captain, get that right, that right, that edge? Our entire environment is filled with the sad end of authoritarian dictatorial oppression. I would like to invite those who have given this order and those who try to re-examine this dictatorial understanding, democratic politics, to re-examine those sad endings that are standing right next to us. I'm saying that we'll never give up on these raids, we'll never back down, and we'll have the right responses around our co-chair by 6 million. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0056par0463	Thank you. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0057par0466	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the rule of law, without a doubt, is the source of this Parliament's existence, the essential element of our function. I just saw Mr. Bauken's claim on a website. No doubt the government's assessment of everyone under the guise of counterterrorism is unacceptable. I just told you on this stand yesterday that the state must fight terrorism, but we must not tolerate any civilian losses within the framework of the law, 78 million... The bet is that the pressure on the home of a political party leader was perhaps caused by a busybody within the security forces. But if this is not a planned and systematic process, it can also be regarded as a coup to the peace climate of the country.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0058par0471	Here you go, one more minute.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0057par0472	It's a sensitive subject, we don't know the details. But this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must be informed immediately. And you'll appreciate that information that the government has to do. I demand that the government inform the General Assembly immediately and without delay.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0058par0473	Thank you. I'll look into the matter, Mr. Baluken, and I'll talk to the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In favour of the People's Democratic Party's group proposal, the last speaker will be Mersin MP Hüseyin Çayak. Here you go, Mr. Pineak.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0059par0481	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on behalf of the People's Democratic Party. I salute the High Council. The wrong policies of power have led to an influx of refugees on our borders. This has burdened our country with heavy economic and political responsibilities. Finally, container cities have been established in various areas. One of these initiatives is the pointy container city. Based on the location selection, a container city of 28 to 30,000 people is being built in the middle of a area of 374 acres, surrounded by completely productive terrain. The container city is intended to be set up in the middle of people's living spaces, brought to an end without the consent and consent of the locals. When we met with the governor, I would object to such a camp being built there, but I have to do what the government says. He said, "The state is for the people, for the people's peace and well-being." We had 17 alternatives, but we identified it as the most suitable location. He said, Governor. As a man who knows the geography of Kahramanmarash, and a man of the region, I find that reason very hard to believe. When I spoke to my friends who were members of the Justice and Development Party, Kahramanmarash, they said it was not suitable for camp, but it was preferable because there was no other option. The desire of Syrian asylum seekers to move to a territory that is not at all in harmony with culture, faith, and lifestyle makes the locals nervous. First of all, these people want to live in peace without harming their natural habitat and without fear of death coming from their immediate environment. It is not a rational and conscientious approach to place the city in the midst of people with different beliefs and cultures, when there are so many available places in Maraş. The fact that these camps are completely different beliefs and that citizens of culture are wanted to be held in dense places raises serious questions. Citizens in the region having a painful experience like the Maraş massacre are naturally concerned about their future in this situation. They don't want to be in a situation where they're going to damage their natural habitat and they're going to be worried all the time. But the state exists for the peace and security of the citizen, the state for its people. Thus, the people of Pointy Haunted, concerned for their safety, have long resisted this camping initiative. And because they can't make their voices heard, they're looking for a solution to this problem under the roof of the House. Once again, we urge power to act responsibly under the roof of the High Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will now present to you the memo of the House of the locals. They said they wanted to meet with all four of the parties -- 80 people came here yesterday -- but they told us that they met with the three opposition parties, but they could not make an appointment with the ruling party group, and they returned home without meeting. As residents of this refugee camp, they oppose their rights as well as the rights of war victims Syrian refugee neighbours. Because Syrian asylum seekers are being violated. Syrian asylum seekers are being removed from everyday life and moved to areas where they will be subjected to labour exploitation. The villagers may be forced to emigrate because their economic livelihoods are being taken away. The campground is built without the principle of living together and without information. The construction of the camp began by hiding from the locals and making false statements in person. Because of the camp construction, the daily vital needs of the villagers were endangered. The construction of the campsite was illegally launched, auctioned and continued. The locals were not granted their consent. When I say this to the Governor, no, it's not consensual, it's very wrong, it's very dangerous." he said. In democracies, people get approval. It's also a human rights violation. As a result of the village's detection case, expert experts have determined that the camp project has no public benefits and that the environment will be affected. The villagers are being prevented from expressing their most basic human rights and are being acted against a democratic society principle. Despite all violations, the administration court has not decided to stop the execution. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to present to you now the reports of your expert witness: The city's planner expert: instead of a settlement that could be solved by the production of integrated housing in the centre or around the capital and social tissue, the city has been chosen to have no production perspective in the rural area. The project violates the principles of general urbanism, planning, higher-scale plans and zoning legislation. There is no public benefit. The agricultural expert says the need for use and use of local people remains in the area where the camp is being built. Construction in the field of Mera will completely remove the fertile soil layer, negatively or indirectly affect living creatures that feed directly or indirectly, destroying all plants, including habitat plants in the region. In this way, local livestock will suffer, and the entire country will also have a negative impact on its economy. There is no public interest in changing the Mera quality and building the project in this area. Geological engineer expert: the area where the camp was built is the first degree of earthquake. Uncontrolled construction can increase the risk of earthquakes. Uncontrollably dumping waste and waste from the housing centre can lead to contamination. Excessing water from drilling wells to meet the need for water will cause subterranean water levels to drop and institutions. Science expert: Because of studies in the area, the road has been changed and has remained 8 to 10 meters above the area. Kahramanmarash Platform Cost Analysis Report: The cost report by the Kahramanmarash Platform, which contains NGOs in different opinions -- other than false accusations against the citizens of Alevi -- supports our claims. According to this report, the distance, infrastructure, cost, long-term social benefits, and security of the site will be held in Pointyhuzük, the area of the TOİKI Karacasu, which has previously been feasibilityed by the AFAD, is more suitable. When I spoke to Mr. Celalettin Güvenç, a member of the Justice and Development Party, he said that the area of this region, the TOKI Karacasu area, was more accurate. For these reasons, actions in this area, which is not suitable for both refugees and residents, must be considered and stopped once and for all by consideration of all our sensitivities. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0060par0498	Thank you, Mr. Pineak. Peoples' Democratic Party will speak against the group's proposal as the final speaker, Kahramanmarash MP Mehmet İlker Çitil. Here you are, Mr. Çitil.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0061par0502	Mr. President, I have made a promise against HDP's motion to conduct a parliamentary investigation into the temporary housing centre in Kahramanmarash. On this occasion, I salute you. Before I begin my remarks, two temporary village guards were injured in the attack launched by PKK terrorists at the police station in Gosha district at noon. In addition, one of our police chiefs was killed in the conflict in Istanbul. I condemn and curse any attack like this and this. I wish our wounded rangers a speedy recovery. On this occasion, I ask for God's mercy on our fallen security forces. I pray that the month of Ramadan, which we are in, in the name of our country and of the world of Islam, will bring good in the name of all mankind. The central district of Kahramanmarash is Dulkadiroğlu, where both opposition parties and my beloved citizen Oğuz Tor Bey have also said in the District of Pazarcık -- it passes as the "Teros' position" -- in the village of Lower Stikcehük, in which, in fact, many of the containers in the neighbourhood are being made for our Syrian refugee brothers, are being made for a new fit, and also for the purpose of making a new fitness in our province and region. The issue of the construction of the relevant temporary housing centre had been on the agenda of parliament several times before, and in particular, our friends in the region had voiced the necessary answers again from this platform. With the same talks being held here today over and over and over again, frankly, it is a sign that we lawmakers, with great responsibilities, have been suspended from the main post of our great Parliament, and have been distracted by artificial agendas. In the presence of our great nation and history, I would like to say that I feel the need to make these statements, and I would like to leave that to the public. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as far as claims are concerned about where the housing centre will be built, the work on the location is entirely geographical and due to the appropriate conditions. Both our governor and our commission have been taken into consideration by our term lawmakers. The following is that, as a result of the research conducted by both the Department of Research Commission and the technical staff in the custody of the head of the agency appointed by our Governorate of Kahramanmarash, 16 of them have been examined at the premises mentioned in the motion, 15 of them being a legal case, the forest being assigned to other institutions, technical problems and the size of the land being inadequate, as a result of the fact that some of them are intangible. In 16 places being examined -- one of the allegations -- the TOKI plot was finally sent to the governorate of AFAD in our paper, dated 15/10/2015. The assessments of the AFAD presidency and the high slope and hard ground of the bet by the TOKI technical staff have been requested to evaluate the merak in the village of Mosquito, under the AFAD presidency, as a result that the cost would be high due to its structure and that it would carry inappropriate, inefficient, inefficient and difficult conditions. In the article of 20/11/2015, the decision of our AFAD presidency was also asked for the presidential opinion, as well as the allocation of allocations in the event of the choice and decision of the AFAD presidency over Dikcehüzük. In addition, the alleged land has been officially registered as a 6th-class, weak farmland and a rocky position, not as the first-class farmland claimed. That's how a report was created by our Agricultural Commission. It has also been reported that the CED report is not necessary for the related land, which has been made clear that our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism's CED regulations are exempt from the CED reports as well as from the CED reports, according to Econ 1 and Econ 2. In our Kahramanmarash, about 90,000 Syrian brothers, including 18,500, are now in the tent city, as in the example of Ensar-Muhacir, both our elements of the state and our citizens and our NGOs. In the same way, one of the allegations was that our 82 - year - old citizen, Purple Ali Kabyel, died in a different way. But as a result of our research, I'd like to point out that it's not like that. It's a normal case of death due to cancer. A claim such as the assimilation of our citizens of Alevi, who are now living at this point in Kahramanmarash, is completely unrealistic, and to bring up the sad events of the past today with very different implications, and to bring them up in our region today, as if there were a threat to our citizens living in our province and in our country, I also strongly condemn them and express it again. On the other hand, when the refugee centers in our country are looked at, it is also a very important detail that this is only established in appropriate geographical areas, where the population is not looked at by Turkish, Kurdish, Alevi, Sunni and so on. While there is a camp center close to 26... in our Kahramanmarash... in which I also condemn the breaking of storms and the creating of artificial agendas. Again, as noted in the motion, none of the refugee camps in our country have been given open or secret support to the DAEŞ terrorist organization. Our refugee brothers here saw and sheltered our country as a safe haven, away from the cruel Assad regime and the chaos in the country. To make these victims of terror asylum seekers look like allies of another terrorist organization is purely ulterior motive. These allegations are the result of a completely unrealistic, other, incriminating attitude. Congressmans, these allegations of provocation are dangerous. The common sense of the people of Kahramanmarash and my countrymen will not allow it. In every part of Turkey, our people, who embrace the helpless, the refugees, the helpless, take care of these refugees who will come to Kahramanmarash, and they will continue to come out. Let it not be forgotten that the faith of this nation, its customs, its culture, and its history guarantee us this. So our citizen is simply saying to those who claim, "There's no bread for you here, you can't provoke us. He responds and answers to another door!" It does. That way, I'd like to say that we'll continue to hug our guests from here. Also, this tent city centre, located in the industrial area of our current Kahramanmarash centre, was established about four years ago on 3 September 2012. It's private property of our industry tradesmen, our industrial co-ops, and they've opened their arms for four years when they should be investing, and for four years, they didn't withhold either material or spiritual help. I also want to thank them. And while our citizen, our human, our tradesman, is acting this way, working with sacrifice, giving his own private property for four years, I strongly condemn these storms and those who have broken it out of here once again. We opened that area to our Syrian visiting brothers and sisters in 2012. They both gave the first step health care, the second step health care, our Public Health Directorate, our hospital for co-ordinating our Health Department. And we've located two 112 stations right around our industrial area there, where we're carrying about 5,000 patients a year. This area was also planned to be used as a temporary housing and crisis centre for natural disasters later, which we thought was multi-purpose because our Kahramanmarash province is a province with a risk of first degree earthquakes. Hopefully, this problem will serve our heromarash after the tribulation has been resolved. In the meantime, I'd like to give you some information on the new container town. 5,008 containers are available, and these are made in two stories. It's at 60 percent now. I still don't know what we're talking about, because it's 60 percent, and soon it'll be open to service, and our Syrian visiting brothers and sisters will be served. There are still 500 staff, four schools, public education centers, mosques, hospitals, nine wells... which will also serve those surrounding villages and neighborhoods. In the same way, there are 16 villages there -- the neighborhood as it is now -- three of them are direct Sunni neighborhoods, the other three or four are mixed, the villages where our citizens live in peace. Another part is where our citizens of Alevi live...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0062par0517	Mr. Çitil, thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0061par0518	As I end my words here, I salute your grand delegation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0063par0520	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0064par0521	Wait a minute... Mr. Tor has entered the system, and I'll give you my word, Mr. Doğan. One moment, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0065par0526	Mr. President, thank you. Speaking about the group's proposal, Mr. AKP Kahramanmarash MP İlker Çitil has said that I have declared that the village of Lower Point is connected to Pazarcık. That's wrong. I've read the group proposal text, and I've made a promise about this group proposal text. That's the expression in the group proposal, that's not my expression. They are bound to Dulkadiroğlu even though they were previously bound by Pazazcık. So this is the expression in the group proposal text, not my expression. I want this fixed, and I want it on the record like this. That's not my statement, I want him to know.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0064par0528	Thank you, Mr. Tor. Mr. Dogan...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0066par0531	Mr. President, the speaker said that our motion as a group is about creating an artificial agenda, and that there is no such problem in essence, and that he strongly condemns it, that there will be no bread. What we consider a very important social problem is that the people of the region in the Terolar region do not want it, and they try to address the lack of adequate work with the people of the region in this way. It's a very serious issue, and it's a very important matter to reconnect with the locals and change the campsite. Otherwise, what we want is not for the tissue to break down their relationship with each other, on the contrary, but for the preservation of ancient relationships and the continuation of these social relations. My respects.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0067par0534	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. The Minister has a request for word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0068par0538	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, I've asked for my word on this HDP group proposal. Although Mr. Kahramanmarash, Mehmet İlker Çiçil Bey and Fahrettin Oguz Tor Bey have also been briefed. I think we need to look at the whole thing. In 2011, 58 percent of the Syrians who fled from a dictator who dropped bombs on their people took refuge in our country. Turkey has taken a completely human approach to this issue and has opened its doors to the event, as well as to international agreements. We don't care about the cult, the sex, the language, the race; it's only human. Currently, there are 2 million Syrian refugees in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0069par0543	One more minute, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0068par0544	The number of asylum seekers in the temporary shelters is 266, but 7.742 is also Iraqi. Hatay, Gaziantep, Şanlıurfa, Kilis, Mardin, Kahramanmarash, Osmaniye, Adıyaman, Adana and Malatya are the camps. 18 locations have been searched during the work of choosing locations in Kahramanmarash -- our representative has given information. The current tent city of Kahramanmarash was in a 500-acre area owned by the Small Industrial Cooperate, and in order to build the industrial site, there was a tender for the Ministry of Industry today, which had to be resolved urgently. I would like to present to the knowledge of the Supreme Assembly, especially the information of the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) who has proposed this group, that right now, the coalition forces in the Azez region need to be involved with the Syrian army...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0069par0547	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you one last minute, you're making a statement. We'd appreciate it if you could pick it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0070par0550	There are now more than 180,000 Syrian people from their homes, waiting for them to be hit by an olive grove on the edge of the church. And in that region, the camp that was built in Syria, as you know, was bombed by Russian planes, with 10,000 people. We're looking at it as human beings. We're trying to make sure that these 180,000 people don't come to Turkey, but when they come to Turkey, we're also preparing for them not to stay hungry and out in the open. I repeat, we're not looking at it as Alevi-Sunni, we're looking at it as human beings. The government of the Republic of Turkey has spent more than 11 billion dollars on this job. We will continue our open door policy and humanitarian aid, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0071par0553	Thank you. The People's Democratic Party group proposal...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0072par0555	Mr. President, I'd like to speak of my position according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0071par0556	Just a minute.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0072par0558	Mr. President, there's no one here who doesn't look at it from a human perspective. All political parties are bringing this up so that the human dimension doesn't lead to more dire consequences. Unfortunately, we all know the government's humanitarian approach to refugees from Syria. One of the authors of the policies that created this refugee issue is the AKP government itself.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0073par0560	Did we drop the bomb on people?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0072par0561	Now they've put millions of people in refugee status. These people: One: they're using it as leverage against the European Union. Two: they consider demographic change in Kurdish and Alevi as part of the assimilation policy based on demographic change. Three: From time to time, they allow them to cross the border to Syria and use it as a part of the war. So don't let anyone come to us and give us a human perspective on the construction of the camp in Terolar.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0074par0565	These are six empty claims.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0072par0566	We all care about human perspective, of course, but we're all aware of policies that are particularly based on demographic transformation in Kurdish and Alevi regions.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0075par0567	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0074par0568	These are six empty claims.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0072par0569	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit01spe0075par0573	I will submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's a disagreement between the clerks, let's do it with the electronics. I'll give you two minutes. Here, I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0075par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 102nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 15/6/2016 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. İstanbul MP Ali Özcan and 24 MPs submitted a parliamentary research motion to the Turkish Parliament's presidency on 6/1/2016 to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating the work on a possible earthquake in Elazig and the surrounding provinces (120 rows). lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in Wednesday's 15/6/2016 jointly and to be held in the same dated combination of talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal, İstanbul MP Ali Özcan will speak first. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0076par0014	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've made a commitment to our motion to investigate the earthquake. The subject of the earthquake is discussed in two ways in developed countries, before and after the earthquake. There are serious shortcomings in our country. Political power continues to ignore this issue. In our country, urban transformation plans are designed to be runt-oriented, rather than to be treated by the risk of earthquakes. The urban transformation is applied to high and luxurious places, not to areas where the earthquake will be badly damaged. The Mining Study and Search updated the data of the living fault lines containing geological, geomorphological and seismological information of the earthquake. Large projects such as the Eurasia Tunnel and the Ottoman Veteran Bridge needed to be considered. Experts who draw attention to the danger of earthquakes also need to be heard. We've submitted a motion to investigate the risk of earthquakes and to determine the necessary measures. This is an extremely current and sensitive issue to address. According to experts, there is a possibility of an earthquake the size of 7. He's not ready for such a big earthquake. The East Anatolian fault, one of Turkey's largest fault zones, is very close to the Elazig city centre. Many of the buildings that were built before 1999 are not in accordance with regulations. It is imperative that Elazig be prepared for the earthquake. Urban transformation plans must be reconsidered by the risk of earthquakes and must be included in planning the villages of Elizıg. Not Rant, but human-focused work should ensure the housing and life of our citizens. Remember, the earthquake doesn't kill, it kills buildings, people build buildings, people oversee and approve building. The control mechanism is very important around here. Elazig is one of the three cities estimated to suffer major damage to the earthquake in Turkey. Istanbul is the first of the cities to be destroyed, Elazig the second, Malatya or Marash the third. Why do we call it "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or Because the work is kept confidential for some reason, as in other matters. The issue of emergency activities after an earthquake is just as important. In this particular, the topic of earthquake gatherings is important in cities in which the population is dense. Today morning there was an earthquake of 3.2 in Marmara. The most striking aspect of the government's view of the earthquake, rather than looking at it humanly, is the area of the earthquake gathering. The 1999 quakes have shown that the Marmara region is at grave risk. Until 2029, a severe 7.2 earthquake is expected in Istanbul. The earthquake will cause massive loss of life and property in Istanbul, where 60 per cent of the building's stockpile is unsustainable to the earthquake. Istanbul has 1,600,000 buildings. Suppose 99 percent of these will be fine, and there will be no human casualties in these buildings, and only one percent will happen. At first, this may seem extremely pleasing, but increase the number of 11% of buildings to 16 percent. If there's four apartments in each building, that's 250,000 people. So if only 1 percent of the buildings in Istanbul were destroyed in such an earthquake, it would be a serious disaster. It is known that between 1999 and 2003, more than 500 earthquake concentration sites have been established in Istanbul following the work launched just after August 17, 1999. Some 75 per cent of the earthquake concentration sites set up by the City Council are alleged to have been constructed by zoning. We asked Davutoglu, the Minister of Environment. The Minister of Environment has given us an article meaning that he has no knowledge of the authority or responsibilities of his ministry. In fact, all these questions should be asked to Recep Erdogan because he has been leading Istanbul since 1994. Seventeen years have passed since the earthquake. Is Istanbul ready for an earthquake? According to experts, Istanbul was more prepared for an earthquake than it is today in 1999. Doesn't the conscience of those responsible for this painful reality ache? We're asking the government and the mayor of Istanbul about the area of the official earthquake gatherings, and they're not responding, they're hiding information and records that should be open to citizens. The government wants to be serious about business. There's a secret business here, a lack of seriousness. This is where we tell our citizens from Istanbul: I'll explain in detail to anyone who wants to know how the information is hidden. Of course we know some of it. After the 1999 earthquake, we know how many earthquake concentration sites were drawn, what malls, what towers were built on them. And among those gathering areas was the Taxi Travel Park. You just couldn't touch the Travel Park because of the democratic resistance of young people, and you'll never touch it. How dare you build multilayer structures on a parcel base when you don't even have a regulation of 20 floors and above structures? I find that hard to understand. Such a city as Istanbul, the bill of an unplanned, undocumented director is too heavy. Surveillance and research on the purpose of preparing Istanbul for the earthquake are ear-to-eye. As part of Istanbul's seismic risk reduction and emergency preparation project, public offices, schools, hospitals, roads, bridges and viaducts have been partially reinforced, while citizens' habitats are still at grave risk. The urban transformations, which were created to prepare for the earthquake, have been transformed from an earthquake-driven, non-scientific project. Who decides which district will prioritize urban transformation? It is possible to plan and schedule a city for an earthquake with the participation of NGOs, people and universities. The building stock is just a component of the city. We need to be ready as infrastructure, environment, people, economy and management, other components of the city. How will these infrastructures react to the possible Istanbul earthquake? The earthquake is also the greatest environmental disaster. The debris and waste and the possible dispersal of industrial facilities will result in a massive environmental disaster of glowing, explosive, and toxic materials. As their factors mingle with air, water, and soil, they eventually reach our people again through the food chain. We need to prepare our people for the earthquake and reduce the risk. Has anyone calculated what would happen to this place, and thus Turkey's economy, if the earthquake were to occur in the Marmara region? You're stacking all the investments and the giant projects here as the most risky area in the earthquake, but you're not taking precautions. The loss of work, the economic loss of business in a possible earthquake, must be calculated and taken into account. Elizım is one of the most predicted cities in which the earthquake will be destroyed. Therefore, with the support of my esteemed fellow lawmakers of Elazig, I hope that our research proposal will be accepted, and I offer my regards, thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0077par0031	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. Mr. Lezgin Botan, the Van MP, will speak first against the Republican People's Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Botan.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0078par0035	Mr. President, perhaps it is, but I will speak in favor, not against it.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0077par0036	Mr. Botan, the information in front of me is written on the side. İDRIS BALUKEN (Diyarbakir ▪ He is, in a manner of speaking.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0078par0038	Well, all right, let's fix it, then. All right.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0077par0039	All right, fine. You will speak in favor.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0078par0040	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0077par0041	Okay, fine. The content is more important. Here you go, Mr. Botan.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0078par0043	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group regarding the CHP Group's proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Despite developing scientific and technological possibilities, Turkey is no longer able to use these facilities enough, even though ground ethics are now easy to perform and the necessary measures are taken in advance. In the world, developed countries use scientific and technological resources to build settlements and structures in line with the data obtained. These preemptive measures against possible earthquakes, as well as measures that must be taken during the earthquake and after the earthquake, are as important as the measures taken ahead of the earthquake. For example, building and building buildings must be planned with an earthquake-oriented focus based on the earthquake truth. In the earthquake process, it is important to consider and organise the necessary measures to be organized in time, to provide evacuation, housing and health care. According to the earthquake map and the actual seismic data on this map, 93 per cent of Turkey's territory is located in earthquake zones. But we do know that an earthquake is not fate, as long as we know how to live with earthquakes, how to deal with earthquakes after earthquakes. Rantist, far from opportunistic attitudes, let's observe earthquake-oriented, human-focused plans. Despite Turkey's geologic position in the first-degree earthquake belt, the urgency of measures for earthquakes has come to light with the August 17, 1999 Lake earthquake. It has been launched that the areas close to the fault lines should not be granted residential permits and that the settlements on the fault lines in the current situation should be evacuated and subject to urban transformation. Until May 20, 2011, after the 1999 earthquake, according to the Kandilli Observatory's data, there were 38 earthquakes greater than the 5th earthquake on a devastating scale. On 23 October and 9 November 2011, our province faced two major earthquakes. After 1999, we take the necessary measures against the depressions. Despite being called ▪, the destruction of the most public buildings in the 2011 earthquake in Van province is exemplary in showing how effective the measures are. How will a sense of government that doesn't even build public buildings that can withstand earthquakes allow citizens to build their dwellings in accordance with the earthquake? Despite the Law and disaster and emergency laws on building a building suitable for the earthquake, the failure of civil defence services to citizens after the earthquake shows that the earthquake phenomenon is superficial. The Bayram Hotel after an aftershock, which was reported unregistered after the Van earthquake, was destroyed, and we lost 38 lives there. Even this example shows that the responsibility to take precautions and control the earthquake requires more than preparing legislation. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, although five years have passed since the great earthquake disaster of our province in 2011, I would like to point out that the suffering of the earthquake is still as fresh as the first day. The government's first aid to the people of Van, who were waiting for tents and help in the winter conditions, after the earthquake, was the TOMA, and the tear gas. Immediately after that, the Van Metropolitan Mayor was taken into custody and put in prison. The assistance from all over Turkey has been blocked by public officials, and the victims of earthquakes have not received food support in the tent for days. After that, tent cities were also designed without the equipment to provide for our citizens, so we lost at least 35 children in the fires. As you know, the TOKI has taken over construction work on housing for the victims of the earthquake. THE dwellings built by the Turkish People were sold by the logic of trade through the victims rather than by the logic of helping the earthquake victims. In other cities, the same standards of housing were sold for 55,000 euros -- I'm telling you that over market prices -- the 60 and 75 square metres of TOKI apartments in Van have been sold to citizens between $65,000 and 98,000. FOR months, water and transportation were not available to the housing areas, as the TOKI (TİKI) failed to hand over the completed housing projects to local governments on time. The management of the dwellings has been given to a private company, and the victims of earthquakes seeking to obtain the right to live in their homes are owed management expenses and dues at the cost of 2,000 to 3,000 lira. Because of debts such as this, thousands of other citizens were carried out on the first day, and they were punished with interest of around 5%. Mr. President, good lawmakers have been deprived of the opportunities for urban transformation and interest-free loans, as there is no time for damage detection and debris removal by public institutions. After the earthquake of Sakarya, some of the tax debts of Sakarya were wiped out by Law 4731, with a sound and sound decision. The government has not taken steps to reassure Van's trades in this matter, despite the fact that the implementation union in our country and the province of Van, which has lower national income than the province of Sakarya, has been constantly expressed over the time when such expansion is needed. The majority of Van's trades are unable to take out loans from banks because they can't afford to pay the loans that existed during the earthquake, and the loss continues. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, it is imperative that the necessary measures be taken by investigating an earthquake that is likely to take place in the provinces of Elazıg and its surrounding regions. We know how well the motion is and how necessary it is from the experiences of our province of Van, which experienced a major earthquake. Of course, it is not possible to predict exactly when the earthquake will occur and how much damage it will do, but the measures taken by countries facing major earthquakes in the world show that no matter how severe the earthquake, it is possible to minimize the loss of lives and property, as long as the understanding of governance and mentality of human life is more important and more valuable than anything else. Greetings and greetings, thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0079par0055	Thank you, Mr. Botan.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0080par0056	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0079par0057	Mr. Mush, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0080par0058	In his speech, he compared the work done in the Van region after the earthquake and the work done in other areas, and he expressed that there were shortcomings there, and we demand a word about that as the AK PARTI Group.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0079par0059	You'll make a statement.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0080par0060	Yes, our Van MP will speak.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0079par0061	Your position, please, for explanation.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0081par0062	But let the government do it, Mr. President, the government is sitting there, why would the AKP Group want to explain without bullying?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0079par0063	Van MP Mr Kayaturk asked not to be bullied, but to explain, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0081par0064	Well, then, let's make a promise, Mr. President, to correct what all my fellow lawmakers have said.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0082par0065	The Minister is also in charge of the AFAD.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0083par0066	He's not responsible for AFAD, Van MP.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0082par0067	So it's the beginning of an earthquake study.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0084par0068	Here you go, Mr. Kayaturk. Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0085par0072	Mr. President, thank you very much. In fact, what happened in the Van earthquake was Turkey's 100th century. Within less than three and a half hours after the earthquake, our Prime Minister was in Van, in the area of the earthquake; within a month the tents came very quickly, followed by 35,000 containers, and within a year in Japan, in the United States, in Europe, 17,000 dwellings were built at a speed that was not in Europe; they were now completed in 34,000 dwellings. Within a year, our ministers never left Van. Two hundred and fifty-two days a year is the number of ministers in Van. Right now, the people of Van live in these magnificent dwellings...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0084par0075	Thank you, Mr Kayaturk.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0086par0076	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0084par0077	Mr. Botan...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0086par0078	I beg you, now, I mean, I didn't go into too much detail when I gave you this data, but I just want to say, if you'll excuse me for a minute or two, it's like I'm here...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0084par0079	I'll give you a moment of your time, Mr. Botan, please.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0086par0081	Mr. President, I'm just... I've got a section called "TOKI" written, and my deputy knows it. You know, in the TOKI concept, there are not only mosques and schools, but there are also social donut areas, cultural areas, shopping malls, banks, PTT services, health services, all of them. My deputy knows well that the renters are 25 kilometers away from the van, the round trip-up is 7 liras, and they are all poor people, most unemployed people. There's no mall, there's no environment, there's no lights, there's no park, there's no health clinic, there's no bank, there's no PTT services. To receive such services, a family of four must go into the city for at least one fifteen days -- the average of the moon -- at least one fifteen days. When you multiply it by $7, that's a minimum wage. See that these services have not really been offered. So...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0084par0083	Thank you, Mr. Botan. In favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, Mr. Baki Simsek, MP of Mersin, will speak second. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0087par0090	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Party Group's National Movement Party Group on a proposal on the risk of earthquakes in Elazig and the surrounding provinces and on efforts to minimise the threats that this risk may pose. I hereby salute the High Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. It is the third-largest province of Elaziğ, East Anatolia, Erzurum and Malatya, and is a province that must be carefully focused on the risk of earthquakes. The East Anatolian fault line is one of the most effective fault lines in our country. Recently, the possibility of an earthquake the size of seven in Elazig Province has been focused on. Therefore, the urban transformation plans of Elazig province must be considered by the risk of earthquakes. There will be great casualties as a result of an earthquake in Elazig Province. Plans for immediate action against these threats must be set in motion. Deliberate lawmakers have broad fault lines that include the centre of Elazig and extend to Caspian Lake. It is also known that this fault line, except for the main fracture, can have a significant earthquake effect that varies from 5.5 to 6.5. We experienced examples of this in the 2004, 2007, and 2010 Archers earthquake. There was no solution to the problems of the villagers in these houses, such as infrastructure, debt, after an earthquake in Karakochan district of Elazığ, in 2010, in which 41 people lost their lives. The villagers also tell themselves that they have built a city like this, that they are not used to it, even though it has been six years. Archers, Upper Wings, Kayalı and Tabanözü villages in the district of Kovancı have suffered the most damage, while the villagers who live here have been placed in new homes built by the Ministry of TOİ and the Ministry of Public Works. Tabanözlüs, whose villages have been completely destroyed, are trying to get used to the 6th year of the Tensal tree, located between the hives and Karacocan, three miles from the village. Areas that risk earthquakes in the districts and villages of Elazig must be identified, ban on building in very risky areas. Furthermore, TOKI must test unhealthy structures starting from the centre and immediately implement urban transformation projects in these areas. Elazığ is troubled about the housing stock. As urbanization was supposed to spread towards the southern slopes of Elazig, they built the fields of agriculture with loose ground. The population of Elazığ was 350,000, while the estimated population would be 500,000 in 2050, while the zoning plans were made based on 1 million populations and Ranta. Despite the high levels increased in the revision, the number of Elızýg's license plate number was built up to 23 floors above 5 times the risk. Fortunately, the license plate number of Elazig was not 66, or they could have built up to 66 floors. Dear lawmakers have not been able to solve the problems of cities and citizens, except for some individual examples, since urban transformation law and regulations emerged. Political will has to make the necessary legal arrangements to ensure that I share the rights between our citizens and our citizens and contractors. Years of courts, inconsistencies, both our citizens and contractors must be saved. Unfortunately, Turkey has not been able to manage the last 40 years of intense migration from village to city, and the slums of all cities have been caught unprepared for this migration, land with development plans and infrastructure, unsanitary, illegal buildings built in fields, and slums built. Not a single building that was built before 1980 in the Yalova earthquake was destroyed, and the unhealthy and unsubstantiated buildings that our people had built with more ambition to earn. Hundreds of thousands of houses have been built all over Turkey by stealing from iron and cement. First, the entire multi-level housing must be tested for earthquake-resistant and, according to this, taken into account. One-hundredth of an emergency. One / five of the plans for the 1,000-mile perimeter. One / one of the plans for the 000. Plans to implement a 5,000-euro construction must be completed throughout Turkey. Residential areas, trade areas, industry, tourism and agricultural areas must be determined and put an end to mayhem. Infrastructures are prepared, ready to invest, tourism and industrial areas must be offered in the service of citizens. In the city, new illegal floors have been built on the existing houses, with the ambition to win more and more, and municipalities have attached electricity and water to them and condoned them by taking donations and bribes. Unfortunately, the same approach continues, especially during election times, and in many cities, especially Istanbul, the construction of illegal construction continues intensively. TOKI is busy building million-dollar dwellings, while unfortunately, people continue to live in the suburbs. Mersin, who was my constituency district during the 14-year AKP administration, suffered the same fate, not a single urban transformation project has been implemented in the centre of Mersin and no district. The government, which has unlimited power and authority over everything, has unfortunately left an entire city to its fate. The most important problem in Turkey is planning after terrorism and unemployment. On the one hand, instead of building buildings that are not compatible with the city's identity or the fabric of the cities or the concrete blocks on the three sides, and on the other, a million-dollar housing projects delivered to the Rant environment -- we expect the poor who you've always told but never did -- to build social housing to the poor market, to the strange guru, to perform housing projects that you've given to the small income, like $100 a month, 250 TL. We expect you to immediately finish the transformations in cities and villages and plan Turkey's future. Dear MPs, the Hansus section of the Mersin-Adana Speed Train Project must not be underground, the city must not be divided in half. The foundation of the Tarosian state hospital must be laid off at once. A city of 350,000 inhabitants does not have a vehicle examination station. The people of Tarsus are requesting a vehicle inspection station immediately. The road must be finished with Tarsus-Camlia. Tarsus must transfer urgent funds for the Agricultural Organised Industry Region. The university of technology that is to be established in Tarsus must be changed to the University of Tashab-i Kehf, and the agricultural district of Tartars (Tarsus) must be opened to agricultural and agricultural universities. The school of theology, which is fitting in the name of Eshab, must be opened. The construction of Çukurova Airport, which turns into a snake story, must be launched immediately. Hotel construction on the shoreline, which has been promised for years, has never been launched. These constructions must be launched immediately. In the 14-year period of the AKP, not a single underpass was made in a large city. Those who need 22 subgates must be given the necessary support by the Highways. Eight lanes between Mersin and Adana must be done as promised. The way to Mersin-Antalia must be finished at once. Natural gas must be taken to all the districts of Mersin, particularly Erdemli. The Port of Anamur, which was opened in 1938, was locked up. There's a cave-in on the dock. When will the promised port be built? What is the condition of the water going to Cyprus? Will Anamur be given a share of this water? The Silifke-Mut road must be supported by the Mut Organised Industrial Zone. All the districts of Mersin have a shortage of doctors. When will it be completed? The areas with hailing rains, including Mersin Erdemlı, Tarsus, Mezitli, must be considered a disaster, and farmers' agricultural loans and agricultural loans must be postponed. In addition, these farmers must be given cash during the Festival of Ramadan. The damage to the Russian crisis must be compensated for the losses caused by Mersin, who ranked first in the export of fruits and vegetables in Turkey. With all these thoughts and feelings, I congratulate you on your Ramadan month, and I salute you all with the desire to meet on a holiday without the news of the martyrs, without the tears of the mothers.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0088par0120	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The Republican People's Party will speak against the group's proposal as the final speaker, Elazığ MP Ömer Serdar. Here you are, Serdar.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0089par0124	Mr. President, dear members of the Court, dear fellow congressmen, I salute you with respect and love. I wish you well, too. We're talking about the earthquake today as part of a motion on behalf of the CHP Group. The earthquake is a fact of ours, a fact of the country set up in this geography. We've faced this fact many times, but then we faced it, tried to heal it, and we've paid a lot in the past to live with it. Of course, based on the content of the motion, an exclusive area has been discussed. That's right, there are findings here, and there's a motion to build a safer structure for Elazig, Bingol, and Malatya in the area of the East Anatolian fault line. But when we look at the content of the motion, it's more like the things that we know are repeated, in a sense, the declaration of knowledge. Dear friends, politics is not a declaration of knowledge, politics is a vision of the future. It is not to establish the words of the city, such as the name of the city in politics, where the name of Elazıg will be passed, where the Bingol will pass, and where the name of the Marash will be passed. It's easy to build these things, or it's easy to plan careers on them, but it's kind of like making fun of the mind of the people we call, you know, the great nation, the people we trust in intelligence.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0090par0128	Wow! I mean, this is a big insult.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0089par0129	Dear friends, what my dear fellow countrymen have mentioned here in the motion with their friends is that it is already within our political understanding. What do I mean by that? Since we, the AK PARTY governments, have been approaching the human-centered event from the beginning and have been trying to govern society in terms of governance, these were the problems that were on our agenda, as well as other problems in Turkey, and we had our search for solutions. That's how we look at urbanization, because that's how we look at it, because people's safety, mental security, generation security, things that are our responsibility, and things that are under constitutional guarantee. Now, I'll come to those things you said. But, like I said, if we're going to form a political partnership, if we're going to create a policy, let's not create politics in which cities will be named in simple sentences. What I'm trying to say is...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0091par0131	You repeated the same sentence three times, tell me what you're saying.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0089par0132	I'm just saying this so you can understand this better...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0091par0133	Tell me so we can understand.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0089par0134	He left your own constituencies, problems elsewhere, only to repeat the work that we do.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0092par0135	It's his hometown! It's his hometown! Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0089par0136	If you're trying to implement the research motion, it's not clear enough.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0092par0137	It's his hometown! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0089par0138	Dear friends, we are sensitive to our country, and our government is equally sensitive. So, what did we do with sensitivity? I'd like our motion maker friend to tell us what's going on here. Now, in a place like Elazig...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0093par0140	Fine! Is that what we're going to say? No way!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0089par0141	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, look what we've done.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0093par0142	Come on, let's hear it. You tell them, and we'll tell them what you can't.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0094par0143	Let's not talk mutually, please.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0095par0144	Don't mention the name of the city, don't make a simple policy Omar! Omar, we want to do an innocent investigation.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0096par0145	Yeah, that's right. It's a second-degree earthquake zone. As a result, serious work has been done between both universities and TOKI, as well as the Ministry of Environment. For example, there was a tender for the Urban Transformation Strategy Document, and there was a local delivery. What does that bring? With this is the detection of disaster risks, the transformation of risk fields, the determination of future vision in the province of Elizıg and across the whole concept of holistic planning. So, with this, all the buildings in 4,050 hectares will be renovated one by one. This was important for Elazig City and it was also auctioned off.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0097par0146	Let's give him some support.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0096par0147	In the same way, we're doing it, so you're coming back from behind.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0098par0148	Yeah, just don't do it, let's do it together.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0096par0149	That's what we did, at least let's keep you informed. Elıziğı Municipality is 1/100. The 000-scale revision has activated the development plans, on hold these days. And here, with island-based studies, especially in risky areas, before, in the city's first founding stage, especially the narrow between the streets, the adjacent system factor is being considered, and these studies are currently on hold, to transform these areas, and their plans have been completed. So that's what we're doing here. In the same way, the city's disaster plan and emergency measures must be taken, institutions are identified, and these are also planned. Dear friends, this is the way our government sees not only this area when they're being done, but all the areas that are unique, it's human-centered. Here, some of our political party spokesman friends talked about some things. What is it? Sir, when we look at the example of the Handizig, our MHP orator friend has just told us that he has been given a floor permit for 23 licenses of Elazig. I wish you'd looked at the full revision there, see what's going on in island-based work, and you wouldn't have made it that way.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0099par0153	23 stories are wrong where there's a risk of an earthquake, where there's a risk of an earthquake. You have to accept that.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0096par0154	There, on island-based basis, you would see how many layers can be added in the area, especially in geological ethics, and in some areas, multiple levels are given as a indicator of the metropolis, but geological ethics are also considered.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0100par0155	I thought you said there was no vertical structure!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0099par0156	You don't like vertical, you want horizontal, why vertical?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0096par0157	So, there were 4,050 hectares of revision planning, and it's on hold. So what we're doing here, what we're doing as the government, as the Ministry of Environment, what we're doing as the TOKI, is creating places where people can live up to the dignity of human beings in habitable cities. Something's just been said about Van, you have to have compassion here, dear friends.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0101par0159	Why don't you just say what you want to say?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0096par0160	Look, in three and a half hours at the time of the Van earthquake, the Prime Minister and his Cabinet were in Van, and within a year...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0102par0161	You haven't even been able to determine how much an earthquake is in three hours!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0096par0162	...17,000 dwellings and 35,000 dwellings so far. You can't be ungrateful by ignoring what's been done here. In this respect, we, in particular, have the basis for voting against this motion: Congressmans, we're already doing what needs to be done here, you're not saying anything new, you're not saying anything new, there's nothing to investigate, there's already the work that our institutions have done on this issue. We don't think a research commission in the House will contribute with these studies in the open.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0103par0164	What's the harm?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0096par0165	Otherwise, we're not saying anything about this being an earthquake zone and being in risky areas.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0104par0166	Don't be long, we don't want any research for the hand. I don't want to investigate for the hand. Say, let the people of Elazib hear you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0096par0167	So, we don't think the research commission here will contribute. If we want to do big politics, we have to develop big projects. So, in this framework, I say we vote against the motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0105par0170	Thank you, Your Serdar.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0106par0171	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0105par0172	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0106par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. My congressman knows it, but it's the opposition's duty to criticize. For the first time, I came across the reaction of a ruling MP, such as why do you criticize the opposition? We do our job, they do theirs. We did not say to you, "Whatever you do is incomplete." Our job is to find out what's missing, to build something better. However, our 550 lawmakers, who are members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, also provide parliamentary research motions as part of the audit activity in preparation. In his speech, our Istanbul MP, who is also proud of being adopted -- our citizens have tried to humiliate our member of parliament by the members of the General Assembly, who have been following the motion that Mr. Ali Özcan had given him for research that he had been deprived of it. I demand that he be given a say.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0107par0176	Well...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0108par0177	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0107par0178	Mr. Serdar, come in.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0108par0179	I'd like to submit something to the record. Mr. Vice President, I have made a statement that the opposition has no right to criticize, and such a statement...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0109par0181	You didn't say, "No right." You said, "Why are you criticizing?"
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0108par0182	Without a doubt, the opposition will criticize.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0110par0183	Okay, you didn't use that expression.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0108par0184	The opposition has a natural right to criticize, and it's respectable, and it's respectable for us.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0110par0185	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0108par0186	Ali, I have no intention of humiliating my brother.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0111par0187	But that's the perception, that's the perception.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0108par0188	He's my hometown, he's my friend. I just don't offer anything as part of the motion, we've already done this for years...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0111par0189	Okay? He offers a lot of things. I mean, I don't mind your friendship, but...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0112par0190	Mr. Ozcan, are you going to talk after this statement?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0113par0191	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0112par0192	Here you go. Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0113par0197	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs... my dear fellow citizens, my lawmakers... where are the three other friends? I'm talking nonsense about Elazig, I've come up here to talk nonsense, to create an agenda. Where are you to turn a blank into a full house? [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear countrymen, the esteemed MPs, are one of the most dangerous cities in terms of earthquakes. We've been through this together. It's not what we don't know. You say, Congressman, my dear brother, the earthquake is unknown, and you don't know when the earthquake will come. So I say, come and tell us what we don't know. Where are you going to tell him that? You don't want to talk about it on the street. He'll tell us at the club, he'll tell us about it in coffee... this is Congress, we'll convince each other here, if we knew what you were up to, what's the harm in that. We'd like to have this research commission to find out. Moreover, in order to make a career in this House, for the sake of the hand, Ali Özcan is the last man. (Applause) I'm proving, this time I pledge to come here as a member of the Republican People's Party... either as my party or as an independent MP. What are you talking about? (CHP turns) What does Ali Ozcan have to do with a career? Let's walk together on Elazığ's Gazi Street, what's the interest in Ali Özcan? What's happening to the ruling party's MPs? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I was born in Elazig, and I was brought up in Elazig, and in Elazig.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0114par0203	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0113par0204	I'll give you all the support you have in nailing that Elazig. I'll back you up.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0115par0205	Did you resign from the CHP?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0113par0206	Come on, it's something like this. The contents are empty...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0116par0207	Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0113par0208	I'm talking about empty ingredients, you don't say it, come fill it up. Let's do the research commission together and I'll get the full information from you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0116par0209	Mr. Ozcan, thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0117par0211	You're running for independent?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0113par0212	I don't care where I feel like it, I don't care where I feel like it, you get to know this guy, you get to know him!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0118par0213	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0119par0214	Serdar, I'm listening...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0118par0215	Sir...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0120par0216	No one who doesn't bow down to anyone.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0119par0217	Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0121par0218	Good luck with that.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0120par0219	Of course, sir, I'll come from independent, I'll come from partying. So don't talk to me before you know me, citizen. There are men here who know me.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0122par0220	Why don't you just give me a hug and we'll be done with this, and we don't need polemics.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0123par0221	Serdar, I'm listening...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0124par0222	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0123par0223	Then I'll listen to you...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0125par0224	Sir...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0126par0225	If a hug isn't for the Hand.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0123par0226	It's applauded, it's really applauded. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Thank you, both of our deputies.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0127par0229	Sir, there's a taunt on Mr. Baki Lightning.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0123par0230	Mr. Lightning, let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0128par0231	Mr. President, Mr. Serdar said that we didn't study the zoning plans very well, that we gave such false information for him. I want word on that because of the bullying.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0123par0232	Here, let's hear it for two minutes, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0128par0234	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are planning new development in Elazığ, with a population of 350,000, and are currently on hold. We've had a study of the plans. The population of Elazığ, 350,000 people, I told you during my talk -- will be at the maximum of 500,000 in 2050. At the moment, Elazığ, I say again -- a Ranta-based construction was built, a construction based on the population of 1 million people, a development based on the population of 1 million people, and a development was built by the spread of agricultural land. Now, in an earthquake-threatening area, is there anyone with a hand that can argue that 23 floors are allowed? When the island has some construction, we're wondering what's keeping it from 23 times the earthquake. In areas at risk of earthquakes, it is absolutely not permitted to build more than five times as much, but unfortunately, Elazıg's plans for both revision and expanded development have been pushed to a very high level. In the city centre and development areas, the city has been given 20 floors, 22 floors, 23 floors of licenses under the name "Central Transformation." I've expressed the error of my ways. Again, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0123par0235	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0129par0236	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0123par0237	Mr. Secretary has a request, and I'll listen to you later, Mr. Baluken. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0130par0241	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, in fact, have been brought to the attention of an important issue regarding the earthquakeism of Elazig. Thank you. I'd like to make a brief statement as to the activities of Prime Ministerial Disaster and Emergency Management. It's a second-degree earthquake zone. In order for any disaster-related intervention to take place here, the Elizgig İl Disaster Intervention Plan has been laid out. He defined the roles and responsibilities of services groups and coordination units that would be involved in efforts to intervene in disaster and disaster situations, setting the basic principles of disaster, disaster sequence, and then intervention planning. He's going to be involved in all kinds of disaster and emergencies that can be lived -- God willing -- on any scale.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0131par0246	Let's give it another minute. Here, wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0130par0248	...property and organizations, NGOs and real people are defined as part of this plan. The park, which will be collected after the disaster has occurred, has been set up for gathering areas such as the garden, and has been shown on 26 areas in the District of the Disaster Response Plan. Also, I would like to say that because of the 2010 earthquake disaster, 3,824 homes, including Palu, Karakoçan and Hives, and 1,820, as head of the TOİ, and 1,705, and 304, have been delivered so far, due to the earthquake of Elazığ Province. Between 2010-2015, 48 infrastructure projects and one disaster prevention project were completed. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0132par0251	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0133par0252	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0132par0253	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0133par0254	Mr. President, speaking on behalf of the AKP Group, the speaker has made a clear accusation against the information given by our group for injustice and ingratitude.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0132par0255	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0133par0258	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. For one thing, let's just say that it's not a blessing to have the Prime Minister or government officials go to that area in the environment of such natural disasters, but it's a necessity to present it as a service done when you come to this stand. Now, what we're critical of is this: I mean, it's unacceptable for us to be given to citizens, citizens, at over 70 square feet of profit over 70 square meters of apartments, at exorbitant prices, above the power of the people of Van. If the Republic of Turkey is a social state, as stated in the Constitution, it must meet the need to be a social state. Housing is the most basic need, and you're not supposed to make housing for citizens who are victims of earthquakes a commercial area; we're critical of it. I mean, TOKI does real estate in natural disaster areas, trade, and there's nothing acceptable about it. Look, on the other hand, there have been some discussions about Bingol, Elazig, lice. I have to remind you that during the AKP government, the promises made from this bench were not fulfilled. When Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar was Minister of Environment and Urbanism and I said that people still had to live in temporary prefabricated huts of 50 square meters due to the earthquake that occurred in Bingol and lice in the 1970s, and that those temporary dwellings were not converted to permanent dwellings, Mr. Minister came up here and I promise I'll fix this sacrifice. He said, "But then 17-25 December files exploded, Mr. Bayraktar was dismissed, as if there was no continuity in the government, as if there was no continuity in the state." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So while the opposition is critical here, our advice is to make sure that these victims are resolved as soon as possible, based on these criticisms. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0134par0267	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0135par0268	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0134par0269	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0135par0270	Mr. President, as we consider the work done after the earthquake in Van, as a commercial area, as we approach the profit-profit issue, there is a real estate process that has been moving against our group. That's where I want to say to Burhan Bey because of the bullying.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0134par0271	Because of the bullying... Here you are, Mr Kayaturk, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0136par0275	Mr. President, it's not a favor that the Prime Minister, the ministers, go to the region. But we care because it started with the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0137par0277	I give up, I give up, I give up!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0138par0278	Don't lie to me!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0139par0279	You're lying! Do you know Sakarya?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0140par0280	So we've seen the prime ministers go to the earthquake site five days later and not even go. Dear MPs, Van is an earthquake zone, and every thirty-six years, there is an earthquake every thirty-seven years. In the 1976 earthquake, I lost my father and my brother, many relatives. My brother's funeral was reached in that earthquake three and a half months later.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0141par0282	There's another body that hasn't been found in Maraş.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0140par0283	We're talking about a Prime Minister who went there with his cabinet three and a half hours after such a Van. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Secondly, there's $65,000, $90,000 that's not taken from anyone. Yes, the average is $75,000, but that will be paid for 20 years, and not a penny in the first two years.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0141par0286	Who's gonna pay?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0140par0287	When these are calculated, when the interest is put on it, the state receives only $75,000 for about $416,000 or $500,000 at the lowest interest rate. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) It's so clear and clear. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0142par0290	Thank you. Congressmans, I say God save our country and the world from earthquakes. I will submit to you the Republican People's Party Group's proposal according to the 19th Amendment.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0143par0298	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0144par0299	I made a promise, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0142par0300	We've got a roll call.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0144par0301	But I asked for the word half an hour ago.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0142par0302	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0144par0303	Mr. President, I've asked you to tell me that as a member of parliament who's had an earthquake about the earthquake, who's had the biggest earthquake, it's not true, it's because I need to tell you what needs to be done.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0142par0304	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0144par0305	But you haven't made that promise in ten minutes, 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0142par0306	Mr. Akar, I've had the earthquake of Istanbul with him, but there's no end to it.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0144par0307	No, but...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0142par0308	You'll make a good request, and I'm processing it right now, please...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0144par0309	They're wrong, they say the government isn't in the area. Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0142par0311	Mr. Ozcan, Mr. Charter...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0144par0312	Just now, Van Congressman, even though it had nothing to do with...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0142par0313	Look, treat me with respect, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0144par0314	But, Mr. President, I'm saying something, listen to me, but please, listen to me.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0142par0315	I'm processing right now. Please... let me process it, and then you can talk. I didn't promise you anything right now.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0144par0316	Well, then...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0142par0317	...Mr. Gürer, Mr. Özcan, we've told you, Mr. Akar, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Pineak, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Carbıyuk, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Şelipehlivan, Mr. All of you, Mr. Engin, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Saruhan, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Demur. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Congressmans, we're moving on to the part of the agenda. We're going to vote for some of the commissioner's memberships in the Justice and Development Party Group. I'm going to vote separately for candidates who are available for two memberships in the European Union's Compliance Commission. İstanbul MP Durmiş Ali Sarıkaya... All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Sakarya MP Mustafa Isen... All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Antalya MP Gökcen Özdoğan Enç has been nominated for a free membership in the Public Works, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm going to vote separately for the candidates for three empty memberships in the Security and Intelligence Commission. Ankara MP Aydın Ünal... All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Ankara MP Murat Alparslan... All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik... All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. İstanbul MP Fatma Benli has been nominated for a free membership in the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm going to vote separately for the candidates for two empty memberships in the Plan and Budget Commission. Army MP Ergün Taşcı... All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Balıkesir MP Kasym Bostan... All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our discussions with the first-place Maarif Foundation Law Bill and the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report. The commission is here. The government is here. In the last merger, the negotiations on the entire bill were completed, and it was agreed to be passed on to its articles. Now, I'm going to read item one: The purpose of this Law is to open facilities such as schools, educational institutions and dorms, to open facilities such as the Maarif Foundation, which can serve in these institutions, including domestically, to create scientific research and research development studies, to develop publications and develop methods and to develop other educational activities that fit the laws of the country where it operates. Congressmans, please, I beg you, let's keep our silence. Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 1. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0145par0370	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Movement for the First Amendment of Maarif Foundation Act 383. I salute the High Council. Sir, I'd like to remind you of the note on the grounds of the Maarif Foundation: the principle and purpose of providing financial and spiritual support to our citizens and relatives abroad and abroad during their studies, and to contribute to their home housing and education and education, and to helping to raise young people who respect high moral and national values. On the other hand, arrangements for the formation of their organs have been envisioned for the purposes of the Maarif Foundation to be carried out today and in the future under the National Ministry of Education's educational policies. Respected lawmakers, now, first of all, there is a definition of foundation and association all over the world, which is universal. The definition of the foundation and the association is briefly assessed under the name "gayri official institutions." So it's not an official organization, it's an informal institution. So it's like a second shadow ministry to demoralize the same activities of the Ministry of National Education, although it's become very traditional during this period of power, and there's a parallel to everything, so there's a minister, there's a deputy minister, there's an undersecretary, there's a cabinet, and there's a cabinet entity. Now, in this context of the foundations, it's as if the Ministry of National Education has a very large area of activity that includes these activities that we're counting, that's what our Ministry of National Education and it's supposed to do. So we already have a cultural attache abroad, an educational attache. We have some concerns as a result of such a foundation, if you'll allow us to share our concerns a little bit. Sir, now, the authority and responsibilities are to be given a foundation parallel to the Ministry. Really, that's a little double-headed. We find it a little difficult to understand why this is done when we predict domestic or abroad activities. On the other hand, sir, some companies can also get help if necessary, so they can also get support for studying abroad and abroad, studying abroad, housing, researching information, field work. Our real concern is whether these companies were created at the point of giving new tenders to transfer a resource to the pool media because they were concerned about creating such a new resource. Why are we a company about education? What companies do we get from? And, of course, when we look at the management scheme, we've discussed a lot of laws here so far, and they've had the same thing, whether it's the protection of information or other things, we're always trying to build a structure where political power is dominating the political adult. I mean, 12 members, 7 of them under the political party's hegemony. Now, look, valuable lawmakers, these kind of trials so far, I think that if we were to develop democracy instead, we would do something healthier, believe us, if we had the idea of attracting our students or the services that we want to do. So there will be seven people, four of them presidents, three of them Council of Ministers, and there won't be much left, and they will be appointed by the units in the shadow of this political adult. Instead of doing so, didn't you think we'd be burnt to death, as you call it, in HSYK? You thought the same thing, and unfortunately, the structure that you organized that day was a form of governance that could act with you has returned, like a boomerang, back into a group of formations against you. Well, now, at the State Court, you thought the same thing at the Constitutional Court, and it happened again. Sir, the Supreme Court... now, you see, this time it's a reduction, a transformation again. But all of this, believe me, in democratic institutional structures, and in the foundation work that we're talking about today, we think that by prioritizing human rights and democratic development, the structure that we think will work in harmony with us today could be harmonised with someone else tomorrow, and as a result of that, again today, it will be relaunched and constantly, sir, the structures that you've taken to the point of terrorism. So these kind of foundations -- in fact, to us, the current foundation sees this, performs this function, but above all, the Ministry of National Education is a responsible institution for doing this. Now, sir, the other important thing is that there are examples that we're worried about as we prepare the motive. Unfortunately, some examples from the West were written on account of the fact that we were not prepared to do much work, preliminaries, consultations together, and nothing was asked of the experts. What? Based on examples of American culture, English culture, French culture. These are truly international institutions, sir, spreading knowledge, culture, art, literature, in the shadow of institutions, official institutions, but they are not separated from the best interests of the state, the state. Now, while we were preparing this, sir, yesterday, when we were talking about the general, the precious MP who spoke on behalf of the ruling party said interesting things. Now, I've counted on you: English Culture, French Culture, American Culture Associations, American Culture Associations; we'll be in a structure like this; we'll be in a structure like this. But believe me, the speakers, they're going to take the culture of the non-resistant Turks to a place where they're going to take their value... now, but in return for example, sir, the foundation of Americans, the foundation of the Germans, the foundation of the French, the foundation of the French, not the foundation of the British Culture, the American Culture, the French Cultural, the French Cultural Foundations. At least name it right. I mean, what in God's name does he remind us of? If this is going to include generic and relatives abroad, why couldn't we use a title called Turkish education, Turkish culture? As you can't do before, sir, we call it "Massana," Jonah Emre, who is part of a content, but the name of the great pool, which is Jonah Emre and Farabi, is Turkish culture. So, if we're trying to eat grapes, why don't we go behind a very specific, simple universal expression in our geography, in our civilization climate, with our kinsmen, if we're meant to eat grapes? Look, they called it "British Council" or "American Culture," right? Why don't we say Turkish culture? We don't call it the Turkish educational institution, or the "vaqfif"? It's a good way to do it. But so far, we haven't been able to do it through TİKA, which we haven't been able to do over the territory, so let's do it through this Maarif Foundation. Mr. Mustafa Isen is here, and I thank my dear teacher in that sense. In particular, there have been many new restoration studies in both the Balkans and the Turkish republics that really need to be restored. In fact, I'm going to give you an example. Why don't you tell us what we're good at? Why don't you tell us what we're good at? We're the opposition, and we'll tell you what's missing; you're already telling us what you're good at, but let me tell you one example. Sir, I have visited Murat Hudavendigar's grave, Hajji, thank you very much. It's really been a regular place to eat in a dump, and so is the shrine; we thank you very much. But, what did we do it for? It also touched my heart that the mosque, which was in Belgrade, was destroyed, and that the descendants of Sheriff Hussein took a Vahabi culture there, and bought that mosque and tore up our gravestones. And in that sense, we really know our shortcomings. I mean, it's just that, sir, as we're taking Turkish culture to relatives and relatives and relatives, we've got this educational policy -- Germany, you know -- we're going to heat it up and heat it up these days, and we're going to make sure that the so-called genocide law that is set in front of us is not passed into these books, and we're going to name it. As the great nation states say... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Since we're older, we're going to use your name as the Turkish Maarif Foundation, or as the Turkish cultural foundation for education and teaching. I'm just saying we're not gonna renovate it. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0146par0381	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Ceyhun İrgil will speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0147par0385	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today we are discussing a bill brought here by the Ministry of National Education, and I have made a pledge on behalf of my group. First of all, if we're talking about the Ministry of National Education, we should take a picture of the Ministry of National Education in Turkey right now. As you know, as my other friends have mentioned, the Ministry of National Education is trying to go abroad with this bill to build. We claim it's a parallel structure of the palace, outside the Ministry of National Education, and that the powers of the Ministry of National Education are actually transferred to someone else. However, we are not surprised to hear that 644,000 students in the country have been absent. In addition, 30 per cent of schools in the country receive combined class education. 507,000 of us, 507,000 of our students, are in the age of education, but are registered in open high schools and will finish in two years. 14% of the FATIH Project, as they call it, has been completed. Based on TEOG, on the basis of the basic courses, the average of 1 in mathematics in Turkey, 2 in science, 3 averages in Turkish and 300,000 students have failed in mathematics. In addition, there has been a Ministry of National Education, which has been court-martialed with its own staff for the past 12 years, and the trial increase in courts compared to 2002 has increased by about 300 per cent, and the Ministry has lost statistically 50 per cent of these cases. In addition, school administrations and appointments have become completely political, and people who are not members of the supporting union today have no chance of becoming administrators in schools. That's been said over and over again, and right now, there's 75 percent of executives who are members of Education-One-SEN. Now, we say this, everyone in the opposition says that, the media says that, education experts say that. As you can see, we're looking at a national education ministry and bureaucratic structure. Why? Because we're looking at a deaf ministry to all the worlds but ourselves. In addition, the most important, current problem these days is that with 400,000 teachers waiting to be appointed, the Ministry of National Education is trying to go abroad to be educated as if they had all worked out in the country. Actually, he's not going, he's handing over his powers to a foundation. Well, that's fair to say, because I don't think they've got a place of fire and a place of education abroad. Now, in this context -- I just told you -- 400,000 teachers have been waiting for years to appoint friends. I'd like to read to you now the message from a teacher's candidate: Mr. Deputy, I'm a candidate for a teacher who buried his father ten months ago. The day before the exam, I promised my father that I would visit his grave and build his gravestone. I can't wait for anybody to wait for me. He doesn't even have my father's name on his grave. Please continue to be our voice. I kept every promise I made to my father. Don't let my face fall to the ground. Another message: Mr. Deputy, as an unassigned history teacher, nothing is getting better. Life keeps me and a lot of my friends on a fast to get rid of them. We await our declaration, and we ask for the good news. My family is mortified, and I am in need. There are now hundreds, thousands of messages that say that there are no more dreams, no more plans, no hope left. These go to friends at the Ministry, to bureaucrats, but we have no response at the moment. As you know, during the past talks of this law -- it was the first days -- the Minister explained something he had found, something the bureaucrats had previously determined, that there was no appointment in August. He has been appointed in this country in August for 18 years and will not be appointed for the first time during the Minister's term. Maybe the Ministry has its reasons, its logical explanations. I'm asking the Minister, and I'm waiting for these statements from him, not from me, but from thousands of teachers who are waiting to hear from us. He's doing an internship yesterday, and we're setting something up in this context. That's why we're going to change the system. He made some statements. Okay, I'll take it. So why did we put these people on the KPSS test in May, or now, in July, why are these people taking the test? Aren't these people going to make any plans? These people plan on getting engaged, getting married, or getting married, but we never give them a chance, and we keep pushing them to despair. So, I'm going to make it possible for the Minister to present the following news from here, at least, to these 400,000 candidates of teachers: OK, maybe we won't do it in August, understood, you said that. At least in February -- 35 thousand-40 grand -- we'll get this much, and I expect the majors to be called: Because why? People want to make plans. Now, it's impossible to accept such a National Ministry of Education bureaucracy. As a matter of fact, I will give you an example of the talks of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the period in 2002, in Antwerp, Izmit, Samsun, and İstanbul. They're all identical, but I'll read one. It says there: "You try to choose a teacher on the test." Let go of me! Let our young teachers study. You'll have to wait all these years and then you'll have it. Does that guy have any enthusiasm or can he teach? But hopefully, when we're in power, the teachers will make their preparations the day after school is over, and the next day, they'll go to school with a love of duty, so don't worry. It's the Prime Minister of the Period. As a matter of fact, Prime Minister Davutoglu also said that he would be appointed in August, but unfortunately they became ministers and Prime Minister of the period. Now, I'm asking, what does this Department of National Education General do? Unregistered National Education Directors, vice principals, branch managers, pending appointment of apologys, the non-assigned 400000 teachers problem, the Executive Admissions Act, which has changed three or four times in the last two years. So the victims of this mess, the injustices, the broken homes, the failing education, the missing children, the parents and thousands of courts, the compensation and expenses paid; most importantly, the unhappy, restless, unable to see the future, even fighting with the ministry, the court's educational community. Ministry bureaucrats can't deal with teacher issues because they're dealing with other things. Therefore, I ask the Minister -- at least we have to trust our new Minister in this matter -- and I wish that he would end this mess and chaos at the Ministry, which would bring good news to the people. The number of appointments of the National Ministry of Education's Chief of Staff should be said before the examination; the major should be announced and not hidden as a state secret. We shouldn't leave it for the last day and stress thousands of people. You should listen to the victims of the spouse situation. Family integrity is a sacred asset, isn't it? That's what you're always defending. Do you switch to city and county warrant practices at the appointment or do you end the victims of these people directly, but you have to do it quickly. Because as of September, when school starts again, families are suffering a lot of victims. All the people, all the politicians, said: "The business high school is a matter of the country." We were all saying that. Now you only understand imam-haki high schools when it's called work school. Why is computers, computers, IT classes in schools in a time when communication, information processing are so important? Why aren't enough teachers assigned to computer classes? Why do you force certain areas of teaching assignments? As a result, the teachers have asked a lot of questions, and I'll leave them all in writing to the Minister, hoping he can answer them. And yesterday, in his speech, the Minister said: "We are implementing the court's decisions, there are no problems. Show me if you have a document. Here, I have it. Here they sued the victim of the 5th,918th Department of Education branch director, and many of them won their case. Here is a court order in the name of the Turkish nation, like the door, and it is not implemented. Here's the problem: National Education ministers may have good intentions and a certain savings, but bureaucrats of the Ministry of Education don't even listen to their own ministers and make them vulnerable and difficult. I claim there's a duality in national education, and I say it all the time. At the Ministry of National Education, a minister has intentions and desires, dreams, and the facts of the bureaucrats inside the Ministry, and that's what we're dealing with. Here's the Minister, I'm about to give him a court order. Apply the court rulings on the branch managers, don't make these people any more victims. Return the rights of the assistant branch managers whose exams you have cancelled, and do not victimize them again. On behalf of 400,000 teachers and their relatives, 3 million families, I ask you not to victimize these people. You make an appointment in August, and if you can't, tell me now if you're going to make 50 grand in February, whatever it is you're going to make, let all the teachers hear. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0148par0405	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0149par0408	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of National Education has announced that this Maarif Foundation has been established in order to satisfy the needs of the children of our citizens living abroad, to strengthen their ties to their homeland, and to present our country's savings in the field of education to the service of humanity. Well, aren't those already among the duties of the Ministry of National Education? There are 65 educational institutions in 15 different countries. As part of the public education service, the government aims to fight off community schools abroad with the foundation envisioned to operate, such as the state finance and support company, while its number should be increased, its quality strengthened. It is clear that the foundation's main objective is not to promote children living abroad or to promote national culture abroad. The laughing movement is indicated to have more than 2,000 schools in 160 countries. During his visit to Ethiopia in January 2015, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan stated that new schools could be opened by means of the Ministry of National Education to replace schools serving abroad using their statements. But now it seems that this goal has been abandoned, and it has been decided not by the Ministry of National Education, but largely by a new foundation, which will be established in the presidential capacity. In 160 countries, the AKP's government also has a large share in opening hundreds of educational institutions. One example shows that on December 7, 2013, Erdogan, who was then Prime Minister, himself prevented the closure of schools in the Gulen Community in Russia, as reflected in the press and public opinion. Erdogan's talks with Putin have been found that he warned that trade relations between the two countries could also be damaged. Yes, dear MPs, the purpose of this long-prepared law, as we say, is clear. We are discussing a draft law on breaking the power of the congregation's construction in education, removing its influence, replacing it with the AKP's own staff. If the bill becomes legal, the congregation will be especially eliminated of private schools, dorms, scholarships, classrooms and international schools. So, how is this going to happen? It's called the Maarif Foundation, which is run by the government and even by Erdogan himself, and has all the resources of the public behind it, a parallel ministry operating abroad. So it's parallel to the parallel, it's parallel to national education, and it's illegal. With this bill, the Ministry of National Education will transfer its obligations and powers to another structure, under the name of the Maarif Foundation. Moreover, to create an institution capable of maneuvering to compete with the institutions of the congregation, non-recognisable privileges will be given to the teachers of the Ministry of National Education. You know what's gonna happen? The entire foundation staff will be given diplomatic passports. A million Turkish liras will be transferred from the National Ministry of Education budget to the Maarif Foundation. Some of the public assets of the Ministry of National Education abroad will be transferred to the Maarif Foundation for free. During the AKP administrations, the foundation mechanism lived through the golden age. Every day, valuable land is transferred to foundations close to the AKP. Public resources, at least, are being transferred to religious foundations and congregations for the sake of political power, the rights of every living person in this country. Capital groups who want to receive large public tenders are forced to donate funds to these foundations. The government is consciously evacuating the teaching area. This area is being filled with schools, dorms, courses, by religious foundations and congregations. This system, growing with power support, surrounds a whole country just like a spider web. Poor families who want to get their children educated are inevitably turning to these educational institutions. In an interview last year, the President of the Ensar Foundation said that after the closing of the Houses of the Smiley Congregation, they quickly opened dorms to meet the need for housing, and he made it clear. They opened it so quickly that, unfortunately, we all saw in Karaman the most painful way the children were harmed when political leaders came to the fore instead of the benefit of the children. Now there's a goal to spread this impotence, this lack of control, through a foundation that's established by corporate logic that's nullifying the powers of the Ministry of National Education. Again, the majority of the foundation's staff is appointed by the President and the government. Erdogan made it clear that in the days of the law debates of 4+4+4, we will grow the religious and vindictive generations of the future. He said, "The education will be organised entirely with Islamic forms, elements and motifs." Now the foreign leg of the plan is coming in. The AKP, which bans and closes schools that our Kurdish citizens have opened, rejects the demands of education in the native language of different identities, responds to the demand for the removal of mandatory religious lessons with traditional state, conservativeity and regime reflex, and sees no blame on trying to enrich its own ideological backyard. You avoid every criticism by embracing concepts such as change, transformation, regeneration, and rejecting every proposal we make for democratisation in education, and you respond violently to those who come out on the street with this demand. Again, I would like to appeal to sensitive representatives who know the importance of education in parliament: neither profit nor political advice should prevent children from getting free, equal, and healthy education. Turkey should now establish an educational model that serves long-term goals, such as science, freedom and equality, not politics. This is our wish for children and Turkey. Look, high schoolers are resisting everywhere, publishing notices. And right away, someone's looking into who's behind it. We all went to high school; we were excited, we were young, and we all beat faster in the face of all kinds of pressure, corruption, inequality. Yeah, you know what's behind those high school kids? A great thrill, honesty, defiance of hypocrisy; a more democratic education, equality and the desire for freedom; nothing else. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0150par0424	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. On behalf of her person Mehmet Akif Yilmaz, the MP from Marseilles, will speak for her. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0151par0429	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of myself on behalf of the Maarif Foundation Act. I hereby salute our great House and our beloved nation with respect and conversation. We believe today that the Maarif Foundation, which we have established here, will, by Allah's permission, be a worldwide educational move to speak for our country. This foundation will not be the foundation of the House, as opposition parties claim, but the foundation of the EC PARTY, which I believe will be the foundation of this state, of this nation, of this nation, of this nation's values, of civilization, to teach the whole world the human values that we have. With this bill that we're meeting here today, we'll be leading a training move to teach the world the ancient values of our civilization, but since we've witnessed since yesterday, in addition to the positive contributions given by members of our opposition party, we thank them for their positive contributions -- that this foundation will be a parallel foundation for two days when education problems have not been resolved in all of Turkey. In this sense, we would especially like to share with our nation here that we are determined to continue with the same horizon and vision as we have done in the revolutionary field of education in Turkey over the past 14 years. As someone claims, education has not been transformed into a puzzle board in our time; rather, we have been fighting for 14 years to build, build, build, build, to build the broken educational system. However, in 2010, we were able to take free steps with the President in full harmony with his Assembly, using the will given by the nation. Every step we take, we face obstacles to certain custody centers. In Turkey, we did not make the necessary training moves in these areas until the stones were in place. In 2002, in Turkey, let opposition parties remember the state-of-the-art of education. We received a Turkish surrender where our teachers had to moonlight in the markets, where we saw pictures of these stories in a newspaper every day. There was a Turkey where our students were sentenced to classes of 60 to 70. In these 14 years alone, we've built as many classrooms as in the history of the Republic, and we've given them to our students in our schools. In these 14 years alone, we have appointed as many teachers as appointed in the Republic. Yesterday, a member of an opposition party, Hamasi, says to appoint 100,000 teachers with a populist phrase. In our time, we started the teacher as well as the teacher appointed in the history of the Republic. Right now, we have a number of top-of-the-line teachers in our specific provinces. Until we have no more teachers in any of our schools, no more free lessons, we will continue these actions, God willing. With these feelings, I wish our Maarif Foundation to be blessed, blessed, and auspicious, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0152par0435	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Deniz Depboy will speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0153par0439	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding Article 1 of the Maarif Foundation Bill 383. I salute each and every one of you. Dear Regents, we are faced with the Maarif Foundation Law Bill, which appears to be positive in general, but is already difficult to predict how and how it will result in its practices. We hope the government doesn't face a situation where they're going to break up again in their own formation and claim they've been tricked again. It is quite remarkable that when the Ministry of National Education is in Ankara and the Ministry of Education is related to it and the centre of a grant from the Ministry will be handed over to it, especially the entire National Ministry of Education abroad, and the centre of a grant of $1m to it is in Istanbul. I'd like to express that we will not stand by and watch if certain foundations and dorms are meant to be fed and raised by the state channel. The election of Istanbul as the centre of the Maarif Foundation, the draft of the bill soon, the election of seven permanent members of the 12-member delegation, by the President and the Council of Ministers, is a harbinger of a new entity. Besides, it's not clear how to handle the financial audit of the foundation. If money is being donated from the government's ministry, it must also be audited by the state and thus by the Court. What is the purpose of this bill? Is the privatisation of private schools the final point of your privatisation fair, as well as the privatisation of the Ministry of National Education? A few years ago, you changed the name of the National Ministry of Education inspectors, the name of the elementary school inspectors, to the name of the inspector. Is that when you took the first step? You've got all kinds of nationalism at your feet. Should this step be perceived as a different, different, new step in the way of destroying the international declaration in front of education? Where are you going to stop? Will it stop when you've completely privatized the government? Because when we look at this bill, you hand over your responsibilities to private foundations, let alone making students, until the establishment of homes and other facilities that should be under the control of the state, and the training of educators. We have all seen together what has happened to children in private homes and similar homes, where such mistakes have been made so far, we have lived together, we have been sad, we have lived together. First you shut down the village schools. Later, you forced the children into the carry-on education system -- because of the closing of the village schools. Then you shut down elementary school boarding schools that were founded for this reason. You've made children and families unregistered, unregistered homes, homes. Instead of dealing with problems in public schools, the current situations and the problems of auditing, and the ongoing problems that have to be corrected, what is the purpose of transferring the duties of the Ministry of National Education to a foundation? As our party, no one should have any doubt that we will be able to study and act in accordance with our principles and policies, in accordance with the laws submitted by the AKP to parliament, in a way worthy of the nation's power of attorney. Attempting to establish alternative educational systems for national education will not escape the eyes of the great Turkish nation, the response will be met with the reflex required by national consciousness. What needs to be done is not to establish alternative systems, but to resolve the existing problems of the Ministry of National Education. The appointment of school administrators should be based on skill and scientific integrity, not on the integrity of allies. Closed village schools should be reopened, carrying young children should not be forced into education. The state must take care of its institutions, satisfy its needs, increase its teaching staff. Mr. Secretary, you have stated that you will not make an appointment in August. It upset our teacher friends, the new graduates. After all, we know there's an opening, and we're asking you, please don't be the first minister who doesn't make the appointment in August, open a way to opening up a staff for our friend who's been waiting so long. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With all due respect, I ask you to do what is necessary to open up enough quotas for inter-state appointments. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0154par0455	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. Congressmans, we have now come to the question-answer section. We're ten minutes out. We're going to hear five minutes of that time as a question, the other five minutes as an answer. Mr. Gürer, here's your first question.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0155par0459	Thank you, Mr. President. The village schools, which have been evacuated due to transport training in Niğde Province, are in ruins. In our villages like Akçaren, Berekat, schools make those who have studied in that school weep. Also, several closed village schools, the Ataturk busts, are neglected and worn out. The first and middle-school reference walls, roofs, gutters, coals are waiting for repairs from active schools, and we need interior and external paint. There are no disabled entrances to this school and some schools. Will there be a study of the review of schools, the closed ones, the teachers, before the new education period? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0156par0462	Mr. Bektasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0157par0463	Sir, my question is Mr. Faruk Çelik Beye. An agricultural support decision issued during the previous administration condemns an agricultural consultant to unemployment for 3,000 years. Because only agricultural advisers employed in agricultural rooms and manufacturers are supported in this decree, while there are 8 agricultural advisers who may have worked here previously, and the fees are reduced from $36,000 to $20,000. In addition to the same decree, agricultural adviser employment areas are restricted. Prior to the decision, agricultural engineers, agricultural chambers, manufacturers, were able to work at private consulting firms or provide free counseling. This is being completely eliminated. The correction of this decree, which was taken for no purpose or purpose, which created significant and serious problems, to our village, to our farmer, to the development of agriculture and animalism, to work one-on-one in theory and practical knowledge and contribution...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0156par0466	Thank you. Mr. Botan...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0158par0468	Mr. President, under the name of the Prime Minister's Communication Centre... some individuals are complaining to this station... about teachers or teachers from different trade unions... whom they find against the schools unsigned. Depending on this, three teachers from the Siverek district of Urbanerek, Gülabibey Elementary School have been reported to the site because they have spoken in Kurdish among themselves and have been suspended, despite the prosecution's decision not to follow. Is it a crime to speak Kurdish? I'm asking the Minister. If it's not, what measures does he have in mind about the dismissal of our friends because of false reports or because they belong to different trade unions? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0159par0471	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0160par0472	Thank you, Mr. President. Actually, I was going to speak on the stand according to Article 69, but I'm talking here. Mr. Mehmet Akif Yilmaz, who was a member of the EC PARTI, had just accused him of using the Hamaset language for 100,000 appointments. Last night, I said that at the point of building a solution where there were 400,000 suicides, the power must come up with a solution, but today I realized that you, Mr. Yilmaz, are the ones who use the hajjist language more than the solution. I'm here as the Republican People's Party, as the main opposition, to help our teachers avoid suicides, but I'm afraid I blame you for that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0161par0476	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0162par0477	Mr. Minister, the names of our founders, Mr. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Ismet Inönu, are said to have been changed to different names in school names and sports facilities throughout the country. In general, what are the number of schools going to change names, or what are the number of sports facilities? And we also have a teacher who's very large, who's not assigned to close to 400,000. Do you have any plans for these young people to be able to see ahead of them? We ask for your support for all non-assigned teachers.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0161par0479	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0163par0480	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, is it a crime to speak in Kurdish about the incident in Urbana? Everyone knows that speaking Kurdish is not a crime, it is spoken in parliament, even in the country. Besides, it was brought in as an elective in Kurdish as part of the ruling languages; another, institutes were opened to universities; another, they were allowed to open the school -- along with Turkish -- to teach Kurdish in secondary education. The state will not open an investigation or dismiss it for speaking Kurdish to its citizens or teachers while offering Kurdish elective lessons at the same time. He's a member of a different union? It's not supposed to happen, and it's not like that. If you don't...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0164par0482	Minister, there's a court order here.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0163par0483	I mean, I'll tell you that. Look, if it were, we wouldn't be able to find a teacher, because we have teachers who are both connected to KAMU-SEN and to other unions. We look at the teacher's merits and the state he's in at school. What's his idea after he gets out of school, which union he belongs to, believe me, we don't look at it because we say we're in Turkey together. Everybody's got something...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0164par0484	Minister, look, there's a court order here.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0163par0485	So if you give me a special subject, about a special person, you know, let's say Ahmet Yilmaz, over there, if you give me any of that, I'll ask my friends why, because I'm a lawyer, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0165par0486	The D.A.'s office has decided not to follow up, Mr. Secretary. The prosecution says there is no crime.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0163par0487	I get it, there's no crime. The non-criminal issue also requires discipline... so, you know, it's a different category. It can't be a crime, it can be a matter of discipline. Give me their concrete names, and I'll see what caused them, and we'll fulfill them. Again, about another friend of ours's agricultural aid decree, about agricultural advisors... I'll tell Mr Faruk Çelik. I'll give his written answer to the deputy. Another... really, the closing village schools are neglected, and I know there's a great deal of repair to be expected, and I know it from my own village. The school isn't really being used, but it's a wreck. Oh, can we take a look at this during the holidays? By God, if we say we'll look at schools that don't work, it's not right. Because we're going to divide our primary source into our schools with our own employees and students. However, we can do this... one other deputy told us yesterday that we want to demand them as a village room, you give them to us. If there are schools that we don't use, well, there's another way to use them as a village room, which is to consider the need for the village's corporate personality, its needs. And have no doubt about it.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0166par0490	Mr. Secretary, the busts are very bad, Ataturk busts. And they're...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0163par0491	That's right. I mean, at least, I don't know, if the school doesn't work, even if it stays in the rain, it's wear and tear. Well, there's no school. It's one thing to put a new one in. We need to find a common solution somehow. Because whatever you do can be interpreted differently, but...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0166par0492	The county can provide special management support with your initiative.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0163par0493	I mean, we say there's no private administration in some major cities.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0166par0494	We have them in our homes, and so does Niğde.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0163par0495	Let's talk about it, though. Let's find a mutual solution. Again, the school names in Balıkesir... I said them yesterday, and I said them today. If the heroes of the invasion war, the founders of our republic, particularly Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and his comrades - including the faith - are named after a school or a sports facility, no one should be changed after him. I know there's no such thing in my era or in our era, or I believe in it, and I want to believe it.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0167par0497	All the stadiums have been destroyed!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0163par0498	But Ismet Bey, physically -- you say so -- see, that's what happened in Balıkesir. If he says, it may have been wrong, it may have been wrong, but I don't say it was right. If the name of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is given, or the name of the Inönul....then we'd prefer to give him the same name again.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0167par0499	Minister, what happened to the Bursa Ataturk Stadium? Ismetpaşa...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0163par0500	But another, let's say that if we had a martyr at the time of the flower school, I think it would be better to have a martyr's name given to a school instead of a mere middle school, but let me wait for your request.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0168par0501	Mr. Secretary, what happened to Inönu Stadium?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0163par0502	Another... well, I guess that was the question, but in the meantime, the assistant manager's exam of one of our fellow congressmen talking about these vice principals was done without a problem. 17,350 people have won the exam. After a union filed a lawsuit against the content of the test, a decision was made to halt the execution of a clause, and the ministry applied to an upper court, and whatever decision comes from the judiciary, we carry out its requirements. Another has been appointed in the last three years... about the appointment of a wife, about the appointment of an alibi... because the Constitution has protected the family. How are you going to protect the spouses by dividing them? In February 2016 alone, the appointment of 1,200 partners was not done due to the proportions of the fullness of their majors. A speaking deputy told us that there are actually more teachers in some provinces than we need. That's why, probably because they've been assigned wives before, and they've been given excuses. In the branch office, the decisions of all candidates who have filed individual lawsuits and winners have been carried out. There is no court order that does not apply in individual application. Again, in the early assignments, the quotas are completely objective and based on the level of fullness of majors. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The quota is also announced on the website before appointments.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0169par0508	Mr. Secretary, complete, please. Is it over? One more minute...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0163par0510	My deputy told me in advance to let the citizen know, so that our teacher knows which majors will be given more teachers. These results from the Internet are announced, which quotas will be assigned, and the minimum scores of appointment results are also shared with the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0169par0512	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Members of the law, there are four motions on Article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the terms of the Constitutional Foundation (Kurkiye Maarif Foundation) in the title of the 383 rows under which there is a meeting. First Ramadan Can Hilmi Bilgin Mehmet Demir Abdullah Özturk Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Ayşe Kşar Hakan Çağoğlu of Tamer Mountain Mehmet Habib Soluk Mujahit Durmuoğlu Yılmaz Tezcan Bayram Özçelik Halil Eldemir Necip Shield Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the declaration of the Law Bill 383 rows in the title of the 383 rows and Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of the Treaty Foundation (Turkish Maarif Foundation) and the declaration of Istanbul (Turkish Maarif Foundation) in the form of Ankara. Zühal Topcu Muharrem Varlı Lust Erdem Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the removal of the declaration of the 1st article of Article III of the Maarif Foundation Law Bill, which is held in the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of TBMM. Ceyhun İrgil Çetin Arik Mustafa Akadın Gaye Bezeler Eren Erdem Tahsin Tarhan Nihat Yeşil Mustafa Ali Balbay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the First Amendment be removed from the draft text of the Maarif Foundation Bill 383 rows. İdris Bauken Ayhan Bilgen Mizgin Irgat Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree with you. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0170par0551	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0169par0552	Diyarbakır MP İdris Bauken will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0171par0554	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all once more. Both when we listen to Mr. Minister and when we listen to the speakers speaking for the AKP Group, they bring to us a view that lives in a completely lumpy painting that has solved all of their problems in education. On the contrary, we are faced with a deeper understanding, a practice, let alone a solution to the problems the opposition has raised from the stand so far. We're not saying that education has turned into a puzzle board, but it's been said by cabinet officials in your government who have done the Ministry of National Education in 14 years. So if you don't believe us, we suggest that you follow closely what your former national education ministers have said about the national education system, about AKP policies. Look, I'd like to talk about some things here on the basis of two current problem areas. The problems in high school... if you want to stir up some external focus of the President's upper secondary schools. If you approach these problems through his detection, you will see these problems in a much larger way in the future. But if you try to understand the rising demands, the rising democratic objections, and try to address the areas of trouble, then you will bring at least the understanding of solving some problems under this Parliament roof by exposing the attitude that a government should have to do. What do the high school guys say? They say he wants an independent, neutral, democratic, scientific, secular education system. They say that a number of applications that go close to the government, advocacy staffing, and the pressures that he's brought on should go off-line until he's dressed up on high school students. We're talking about high school over 356. New high schools are added every day to the prepared declaration. They're using extremely democratic protest methods. For one thing, as Vice President of the HDP Group, I salute all high school friends who have raised such creative, democratic protests, appeals. And what you need to do, as I said, is not condemn those objections, but, on the contrary, try to understand them and develop democratic solutions. Look, another major problem is the problem of teachers who don't get assigned. So almost every year, you know, we're talking about the drama, tragedy of suicide teachers, a topic that's on the agenda in many areas. So far, 41 teachers have committed suicide because they were not appointed during your administrations. Whether you've made the highest appointment from the Republic to date or not, you discuss it with other parties, but there's a reality, there's a fact. Of the 100 graduate teachers, 14 are employed, and the remaining 86 teachers are included in the unemployed, unassigned teachers pool. Is it possible to talk about success in a painting like this? You're raising 100 teachers, 86 of whom are unemployed, and they're joining the non-assigned army of teachers. And then you come out here and you say, "We are the government who made the most appointments in the republican era." It's impossible to solve these problems. Look, on the other hand, there's a reality about this KPSS test, so we're talking about an unemployed army that's taking the KPSS exam, over 2 million. So I've told you before on the stand, Mr. Secretary of Education here, including the Minister of Education and the bureaucrats, put a lot of them on this KPSS test, even bring all the members of the Cabinet to this KPSS test, and if they get the notes you want from the teachers, let's drop this claim, but unfortunately, we're dealing with a government practice that can't make a solution, can't create space, can't answer the question about employment. We hope you'll find a way to resolve the opposition's proposals by trying to understand them rather than rejecting them from the front. With these feelings, I would like to support our motion, all of you, with respect.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0172par0563	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the removal of the declaration of the 1st Article (1) of the Maarif Foundation Bill, which is held at the Grand Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly, 383 rows. Eren Erdem (Istanbul) and his companions Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree with you. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0173par0572	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0172par0573	İstanbul MP Eren Erdem will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0174par0576	Mr. President, I'm going to speak on behalf of this motion regarding the Maarif Foundation. These are all Arabic concepts, they come from the same root, the same root. As I understand it, the government is following a claim that we are going to set up courses of wisdom in order to raise other people. They must have taken an approach to the context, which they used. There used to be time-consuming calendars, a concept that actually exists in our world, a concept that we encounter in everyday life. The reason is that -- Mr. Minister here -- our language, our culture, our ancient human values that we have are thought of as an institution that will carry all the geography of the world. That's great, so there's no problem with that, which is a perfectly understandable and acceptable reason. Let's go on... $1 million for the dryer, folks. How will money be spent, uncertain; who will oversee the expense, the Court, or the uncertain; who will give the education, and who will? Actually, it's obvious; we'll soon see how it goes. Now, friends, because of your educational policies, are non-assigned teachers who are forced to enjoy suicide from suicide to have any employment in connection with this foundation? No. Let's continue... the foundation will train and raise those who will give the education. We already have a ride, an Ensar, a Science Spread Foundation. They're already known for their activities. Who will determine the management of the Maarif Foundation? It will determine the will of the TRT, of the judiciary, of the police, of the governors. Friends, we see together the point where the institutions, the establishments, are the ones that you're running. Didn't the governor of your choosing say to the people -- not to be misunderstood, not to be misunderstood, not to be twisted -- that he said to them? He did. Has the Police Department of your choosing no longer reached a point where it was aberrant to do.. selfie. with serial killers? He's here. Professors who teach at universities that you want and design -- I don't know, who fit into your conscience -- which I don't believe, there isn't, and I'm sure no congressman here will accept this expression -- are the animals who don't pray. Didn't they make a statement like that? He's here. Friends, the judges you've assigned are picking up tea and the citizens are shoeing, and we need to look at that by seeing this reality.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0175par0581	It's the people who brought us in.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0174par0582	So it does not grow in the middle, which is the foundation's name, which is also the root of the foundation, where you are constructing it. Friends, I'm offering you a suggestion: Let's not name this foundation, let's not do it, let's not do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it. You know why? Because education, judgment, our social peace, our brotherhood, our unity, our unity has been corrupted in your hands, my friends.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0176par0584	That's what you've been doing before!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0174par0585	Ilyas Salman is a very good player. In a movie, you remember, he played a fucking bachelor parody. In our society, cucumbers are called cucumbers. He had a licensed douchebag parody, and it was a fun parody. Friends, in this country, education has become the following: Diplomats are now being jerks and laborers, without diplomas being presidents.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0176par0588	You've seen a lot of Salman movies.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0174par0589	More important than diplomacy, you paralyzed diplomacy, dear friends. The last punch was from Muhammad Ali.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0177par0590	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0178par0591	Mr. President, he's being rude.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0179par0592	Your job is demagogy. People gave us this authority, people!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0180par0593	You still don't get it, you don't get it, you still don't get it.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0181par0594	Mr. President, invite the minister to speak in a clean language. Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0179par0595	Your job is to demagogue!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0182par0596	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0183par0597	Now, fellas, look, what's this foundation gonna grow? If children grow up without a problem by the time they're 18...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0179par0598	Know your place, your place!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0182par0599	Mr. Speaker, please speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0183par0600	Listen here, listen here, listen to me very carefully: Bombs will be victims of terrorist attacks that have been shut down by bans on broadcasting in the exploding metropolitan areas.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0184par0602	They're your friends!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0183par0603	But, well, there's Efkan Ala; Efkan Ala comes out, he curses terror, it's over, it's over.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0185par0605	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0183par0606	Maybe these kids are going to die at the construction site where the contractors are going to have a job massacre. You say "fitrat." It'll go away, my friends.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0186par0607	Go on, go on, go to Iran, you'll fight there!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0187par0608	You'll only be in the films of Ilyas Salman!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0188par0609	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0189par0610	God forbid these kids don't become academics. Or you'll have all those academics in prison with a brush stroke.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0190par0612	Then those who visit them become PKK people.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0189par0613	Guys, look, put your hands on your conscience. Mr. Secretary, isn't the non-assigned teachers the problem of this country?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0191par0614	Don't do theater!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0192par0615	Congressmans, you're reacting, but I don't know what you're saying, because I don't hear it.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0189par0616	Why is it that instead of solving the problem within our own country, the sensitivity to take a study out of the country is more important to you?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0191par0617	You'll be in the films of Ilyas Salman!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0193par0618	Don't provoke, don't provoke!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0194par0619	Come on, Iranian soldier, let's go!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0195par0620	Solve the problems of unregistered teachers, solve the problems of the country, and give up such approaches immediately.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0196par0621	You're an addicted parallelist!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0194par0622	How will you fight Iran!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0195par0623	Guys, finally...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0197par0626	Thank you, Your Grace.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0195par0627	You know what's gonna happen to the kids that grow up around here? Look, the President says we'll take care of it. Here, our children will grow up, and then they will be crushed.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0198par0628	Mr. President, let the President who doesn't have a degree explain it, that junkie parallelist will explain it.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0195par0629	I salute you, my friends.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0199par0631	You're out of here!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0200par0632	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0201par0633	Mr. President, let that junkie parallelist explain who's the President without a degree?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0202par0634	I'll tell him.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0201par0635	It's a total druggie!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0202par0636	Mr. President, let him explain who he means in his speech. I demand to be bullied in that sense as well. First, let him explain who he meant by, who he meant by the undiplomasized President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0203par0637	You're taking promises of bullying the President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0202par0638	This country's electoral system is clear, its application is clear, and the documents the YSK will want are clear. If he means our president, who's won the vote of 52 percent, then I'm offering our nation's appreciation for what kind of weakness he's in.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0204par0639	They have digestive problems, digestion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0205par0640	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the declaration of the Law Bill 383 rows in the title of the 383 rows and Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of the Treaty Foundation (Turkish Maarif Foundation) and the declaration of Istanbul (Turkish Maarif Foundation) in the form of Ankara. Kamil Aydın (Erzurum) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? MUSTAFA - We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0206par0649	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0205par0650	Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0207par0653	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have promised that we will change the name, we will correct it. He said -- but we don't agree. I heard something in the form of Mustafa Hajji. Dear lawmakers, look, we're talking about a very special agenda in Turkey at this time of fasting. Education is very important, and it's really very important, because we're trying to express the suffering of our teachers, who are the architects of new generations, and the suffering they're suffering. Believe me, in the last half hour, you've all received messages from different parts of the educational community, from different departments, and we've received them. What's going on here? Let's just leave this training out of politics. So far, we've failed in law, we've failed in trade, maybe we've failed in certain issues with investment ministries, but there's only one way out of our future: education needs to move from the point where quality and apolitics are political. Now, why? Because we use a letter in our sacred sayings how precious a teacher is. Remember the beautiful word of the Lord Ali. Now, sir, the appointment of teachers - 60,000, 70 thousand, 100,000 - doesn't matter, let's appoint these children unemployed, we've opened up a university for these children. During your time in power, you developed a university project with her. It wasn't enough, you opened it at night, you opened it during the day, you opened it up remotely, satellite-free units. Let's take care of these kids. These, believe me, our children, we have to create jobs for them. Is it a mistake or a sin or a ban? Now, unionization... look, the polarization of education -- God forbid -- our generation lived before 1980. Remember that when we take a class, left and right fractions take positions according to the teacher. Now we're going to the same places. So our union's educators, a generation capable of our union's rhetoric, not another union's generation capable of other words. Here, the measure is determined, and this is a divine measure: you prefer Liyakat. If you don't give it to the worthy, you'll be my friend, the inspector, without taking tests, without interviewing the critics? Let's see. You're a primary school inspector, so let's take a look at your competency; let's take an independent jury test, a central exam. You won and became an inspector. What if this kid wasn't your union guy? No, sir, the ones who weren't from MEMUR-SEN won more in the exam, no! So let's figure out -- let's make a law -- a palliative solution. What do we do? Let's change the format of the exam. Let's do an interview. Believe me, our fellow educators suffer, our school administrators suffer. That's good, they got 90 out of 100, they got 85. If you have any education, you're actually going to steal that civilization across countries... he just told us that it's going to bring our friend into international dimensions. When he says that, he's always comparing the history of the Republic of Turkey. I would like to say to our dear friend, the greatest achievement of the Republic of Turkey, a dome where we express our thoughts freely, there can be no greater gain and gain than this. We have appointed teachers who have not been appointed throughout the Republic of Turkey. Let's not do this, let's not do this. Saint Sancar is a figure the world speaks of today. We're trying to get her to come in and give her all kinds of presents. This is not the product of a educational system that we or you have done in 14 years. This has really grown up in a universal sense of education, captured the universal, and, on the other hand, has not forgotten nationalism... Look, you're saying it's national and local, so please... one way to be national and native is by right. Let's focus on liakate. Let's do it knowing that the one who knows and the only who doesn't. If we miss this in training, believe us, we act unfairly, there will be polarizations, and polarizations will take us -- God forbid -- into dissolution, divide, disrupt education. Look, I'm embarrassed to say that even the municipalities are giving scholarships now, because there are complaints -- believe me, the party wants a reference. Fear God! He's a college graduate, his dad's a minimum-paying, four college kids, so if you could just ask him for a scholarship, just ask him about his bread. We need to take this very carefully. Dear lawmakers, now, of course, we have these concerns for the foundation. Hopefully, with universal values and a fixed foot of ours... he, at times, underestimates the official ideology, no... you know what you call official ideology? They are the founding goals and principles of this country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let these principles and ideals lead to the growth of generations who are equipped with universal knowledge, or the foundation doesn't mean much to be built, so if we don't turn it into action and raise new generations, we'll be in trouble, and I wish you good evenings, and I offer you my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0208par0664	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0209par0667	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0208par0668	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Engin, Mr. Engin, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Sertel, Mr. All, Mr. Beseler, Mr. Topal, Mr. Arik, Mr. Division, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Carabbiyik, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Y friend, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Sarıhan. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the terms of the Constitutional Foundation (Kurkiye Maarif Foundation) in the title of the 383 rows under which there is a meeting. İlknur İnceöz (Aksaray) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? MUSTAFA (Sakaria) we give it proper recognition. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0210par0684	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0211par0685	Motive...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit02spe0208par0686	We're reading the motive: Since the established foundation will operate abroad, it would be appropriate to have its name in Turkey. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0208par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 102nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 383. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Actions and Organs of the Maarif Foundation MADDE 2- (1) The activities of the Maarif Foundation to carry out its objectives defined in Article 1: a) Regarding education and education; 1) Open pre-school education, primary education, secondary education and higher education institutions, 2) Building facilities such as general education courses, study centers and cultural centers, 3) Establishing libraries, labs, arts and sports facilities that will be considered a permanent custodian of educational facilities, 4) Building broadcast organs such as educational websites, developing, producing and publishing education programmes and content that the Ministry of National Education approves, 5) Building facilities such as housing, lodgings, and housing that will provide housing for those who serve and receive education at educational institutions. B) (a) is to buy, take over, and rent facilities that are listed in the system. C) Co-operation with institutions and organisations in similar activities, including partnership within legal limits. ) In all education processes from pre-school education to university, students are supported by scholarships for education and cash, and provide the same support for educational materials as books, books, clothes, computers, and software. D) Do scientific research and research and development work on content and curriculum through educational methods and methods, and assisting in the work done, making continuous and indefinitely publications in this framework, co-operating with institutions and organisations operating in this field, and organizing symposiums, conferences and workshops. e) In order to raise staffs in educational institutions to take over tasks such as training, teaching, consulting, and academic work; to build educational facilities, organise training programmes, encourage participation in these educational programmes in different parts of the world, provide participants with opportunities such as scholarships and housing, to support institutions and institutions operating in this field and co-operate with them when necessary. f) (a) is to accept foreign and domestic cash and the same assistance, to establish income-profit enterprises abroad and to be partners in existing businesses in order to conduct activities set forth by them (e) and to organise activities within the scope of their purpose. (2) The Maarif Foundation can do such activities by itself, as well as by corporate or real individuals. The Maarif Foundation can do only promotional activities, participate in joint activities, or support such activities. In addition, all activities listed in this clause can be carried out through these companies by establishing private law enforcement companies or by taking over companies. (3) In cities where the Maarif Foundation has established knitting and widespread educational institutions abroad, other public institutions and organisations cannot form other units for the same purpose. Mr. Vural, you're in the system. Your time is one minute.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0212par0026	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. In the previous article, the motion of the Justice and Development Party has been changed to the "Kurk Maarif Foundation" (Kurk Maarif Foundation) and we had a previous proposal, the Turkish Maarif Foundation. (Sir, the fundamentals of Turkish national education are held on the basis of national education. Therefore, Turkey does not have national educational grounds, is the construction of the Turkish Maarif Foundation for Education to be held on a subject that should address citizenship, or is it being made to resemble the Turkey Service to Education Foundation? We have concerns. Why? I mean, can that happen? Not the Turkish Maarif Foundation, but the Turkish Maarif Foundation. Please, Mr. Minister of National Education, open up the National Education Basic Law, and the basics of Turkish national education will be organised. This law is called the Turkish Maarif Act... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to express that it needs to be changed and corrected. I mean, we don't really think it's right to exclude the Turkish name.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0213par0032	Between Turkey and Turkey... does Turkey exclude Turkish?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0214par0033	We don't call it the Turkish Republic, we call it the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0215par0034	Thank you. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0216par0036	If it's a new TURGAV production, it's unacceptable.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0217par0037	No way!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0216par0038	When we consider the National Education Basic Law, it is clear and clear that this must happen to the Maarif, just as the name of the national education was laid out there.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0218par0039	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0216par0040	In that respect, I'd like to express to the Minister that we're expecting his motion to issue a motion on this matter. I find it very intriguing that the Turkish name was left out in such a way. There is no way that we can accept the exclusion of this in a matter that is in the Basic Law of National Education. I've been promised to express it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0218par0042	Thank you. Mr. Akçay, come in. Your time is one minute.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0219par0045	Mr. President, I'm afraid I'm going to have to consider the motion just now, again, very unfortunate for Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary, if the Commission reads the Commission's report, the references given in the Commission report... remind us that since French Saint-Josephs operate in Turkey, the British Council already have a commission report in the form of British Culture, American Culture. The unfortunate thing about Mr. Secretary of State is that three or four years ago, when he was Minister of Defense, the concept of Turkishness was also derived from the Military Law. So how do we interpret this? It's really unfortunate. I mean, I don't mean to be harsh, but I find it extremely wrong of the Minister to assume such a mission. This mistake must be corrected. That's all we have to say for now.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0218par0046	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0220par0047	There's no need to explain.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0218par0048	İstanbul MP Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 2. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0221par0051	Mr. President, good lawmakers, science is the light that illuminates the path to truth. The end of the road that is not of knowledge is darkness. When I begin to speak in the words of Hajji Bektashi Veli. I salute your high council. I've been promised to share my views on the Maarif Foundation Bill. I want to point out that we did not initially approve of this structure as a parallel structure to the Ministry of National Education, because we see that we are standing on the edge of a new darkness, the painting looks like this. With this bill we're meeting today at the General Assembly, you're going to make a new arrangement in our educational system that you've turned into a puzzle. This is the government's attempt to establish a new foundation to strengthen the parallel education system. The Maarif Foundation Bill and the disemboweled national education are thus the final blow. Because a foundation is being established where the trustee delegation is completely under the control of political power; it is not enough, it is private arrangement for the individual; even if the overwhelming power changes, it is said that the trustee's delegation cannot be changed, because the bill is being offered to the trustees to serve until the age of 72, in a way the membership is transferred from the father to the son. In fact, this bill brings the reign of national education. The ministry's headquarters are in Ankara, but this foundation is established in Istanbul. Apparently, with the Maarif Foundation, the Ministry of National Education is becoming history, replacing it with the Ministry of Maarif. Because, along with the 2nd article, the foundation is given the ministry's authority. There's a wide range of training, starting an educational institution, starting a kindergarten, starting a university, from dorms to pensions, and don't forget the scholarships. Preschool education is referred to as a youth who depends on political will to the university; it is not enough, the ministry budget is being transferred to the foundation at $1 million. A monopoly is being created at educational institutions that will be opened abroad, and the only authority is determined as the Maarif Foundation. In fact, the Tevhidi Tedrisat Act 430, which is protected by Article 173 of the Constitution, has been virtually eliminated. Dear Regents, as you know, the year of training 2015-2016 ends on Friday. Millions of our students are excited to get their report cards. And then there's the 14-year report card of power, which I think should be looked at. If it weren't for the letters, I would have handled Maarifi well. There's no shortage of Emrullah Pasha, there's more to power. In 14 years, six national education ministers have changed, but the desired system has not been established. So, what happened in these 14 years? First you wanted to privatize the school buildings, and when the reaction came, it was abandoned. You've punished parents by not leaving funds for schools. Instead of increasing public education spending, you've earmarked the national education budget for foundations. When you increased the budget for the ministry, you cut the investments in half. You have forgotten the right to education for all, equal and without money, as you transfer your taxes to private schools under the name of teaching support. Due to the lack of funding for schools, you have sadly ignored the problems in many areas from physical infrastructure to the quality of education. You removed the managers who said, "Send resources, not generalities." You solved the source problem inside, so you activated the school family union. You've seen students, customers, parents, cars. The person who gives the money will blow the whistle. You have officially converted the school family union into a collection branch. You've turned education from school courses that should be free to teacher's choice into a pay-per-view. So, in the last 14 years, the money in the family's pockets has increased by five times as much for their children's education. In other words, your policies, which see parents as, have only deepened injustice and inequality.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0222par0055	Who sent the books to the schools, put them on the desks? Who built all those schools?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0221par0056	You've done good things, too! For example, you've dealt with the traffic problem, so you've solved traffic by turning schools' gardens into parking lots, and unfortunately you haven't been able to find a solution to the setbacks in Project FATH. The tens of thousands of tablets you distributed had to be replaced before they could be used.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0223par0057	Is that what it looks like from the residence?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0221par0058	What happened again happened to the citizen's budget, 512 million pounds of steam in his pocket. It's not enough, you've put subcontractorization into national education. With the chartered teaching system, you've lowered both the quality of education and the job security. And it was not enough, but we will build an army of education. You said, "You have formed an army of unemployed teachers from the non-assigned teachers." 40 unregistered teachers committed suicide, the Minister of National Education has come out to attract attention, said pretentious suicide syndrome. But 40 houses were hit by fire, and the fire burned where it fell. Dear Regents, solving national education policy has become more difficult than solving pool problems. We removed the entrance exam to the high school, replaced it with the mid-teacher exam. You said, "LGS became OKS." It hasn't been a year, and we're bringing in the level detection exams, which will be three digits into the high school. You said, OKS has become SBS. You see, as the age of starting the classroom declines, this time you've removed the Level Rating Exam, you've brought the Passing Exam from Basic Education to Middle School, the TEOG becomes SBS. In short, you've converted national education into a highway crossing system. See, our students who graduated from public high schools in 2015 were able to answer 40 questions in mathematics and science, three questions, and 15 in Turkish. But you invented a way that no one would think of to improve quality in education. You've decided to turn straight high schools into Anatolian high schools overnight. When we said, "Don't, don't." The minister of the era said, "We've increased the quality of education by turning normal high schools into an Anatolian high school." The class is the same class, the teacher is the same teacher, the building is the same building, the student is the same student; you ignored it. We don't know if the sign's up when it's changed, but from 2010 to today, there are over 237 grand in college exams. Dear Regents, it's easy to say, the education system has changed 13 times in 14 years. Lastly, you've brought the 4+4+4 system, the mandatory training in 12 years. You've reduced elementary school to four years, reduced the age of starting school to five and a half years. With the age of starting school dropping, you've launched a discussion about co-education instead of covering the teacher's and classroom gaps, especially when the currents of the classrooms are increasing in low socioeconomic areas. Whereas in our country, one out of every 3 young people is not continuing their education. These young people who have abandoned their education are unable to enter the labour market. Women also make up 73 percent of young people who are not in training or in the workforce. So, like in every field, women get the biggest cut here. You have legally opened the way for child labor along with 4+4+4. Students who study in vocational and technical schools are employed at a low wage starting in their student years. The motto of the business high school country is being used today to create qualified child laborers. Are the problems over? No. The rise in harassment and abuse cases in our schools and foundations, such as education centres, has been on the country's agenda for months. Look, there's only been twenty-nine cases of harassment in the past March. Most of the abuses took place at schools, foundations, courses, study, children's rehabilitation centres. Precious representatives want to announce to the Ministry of National Education that the 4+4+4 system of secular and scientific education is under threat in riots, as well as the only high schools you want to adopt with the application of the project school. In other words, the mill will no longer return with transport water. But it seems that these problems are going to get deeper with this law that you're making, rather than resolving problems from the existing system with a new bag of legislation that you haven't brought to the General Assembly. As a result, in 14 years you destroyed a generation by making thirteen changes, a generation missing. But those mothers, those fathers, they went on this path, struggling, begging, struggling to let their children live what they couldn't. But unfortunately, the painting didn't go that way. If all these problems with the Maarif Foundation Bill you brought in today are to be eliminated, we are prepared to vote with you. But with this bill, the problems are not solved. Let's take care of the kids, take care of our country. In Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's words, I complete my words: ▪ Education is that it either makes a people live in a free, independent, glorious, high society or leaves them in captivity and misery. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0224par0068	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0225par0072	Thank you. Mr. President, during the 24th term here during the work of the Constitution, all the declarations of the Constitutional Court of Justice and Development have been removed from the Constitution. In particular, we have again been rejected by the recent Justice and Development Party, based on their seasonal nationalism feelings and behavior, in particular on the proposal that this noble law should be changed as Turkish property. In particular, we want to announce it to the Turkish nation from here as a sign of how much seasonal nationalism you've been trying to show this nation recently. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] If you especially want to know a person, look at the CV. When you want to hire someone, you look at their CV, what is their experience, what are their trainings, and how are they? So let's share here that when we look at AKP's CV, it's really not particularly good about education. Now, especially before me, the speakers talked about them. I'd like to stress that by mentioning the statements made by a minister who was also a minister at the Justice and Development Party a few days ago. In particular, the emphasis of a person who serves as a Minister of National Education at the Justice and Development Party: "It is unfortunate that many of the senior bureaucrats taken from the ministry headquarters have no interest in education at all," he says. We've stressed these things for years. Don't do it, it's a pity! Don't use your ambitions, the ministry of political ambitions. No one listened. Right now, it's being explained by your ministers as genuine, sincere feelings. Another is: playing with staff in the morning and evening and doing so in a way that will mess up the entire mechanism will not contribute to the quality of education, he says. At the same time, it will demoralize the workers, lower their performance, he says. Moving on, it says that national education is too important to abandon at the mercy of some bureaucrats brought to high-level executives. But I still want to keep my hope. Your minister says. And again, he spoke in really ironic terms about the policies of the National Ministry of Education, which we specifically refer to as puzzles and are constantly played. It says: "Especially we did SBS on the Middle School Pass exam, but my friend who came after me only reduced the SBS (SBS) to the 8th grade, and reduced it to one time.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0226par0078	If you could just name him after our former minister, Mr. Speaker, if we could just get to know him.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0225par0079	Our friend who came after him didn't get the speed, and I'll explain in his own words -- he said he'd remove all the tests. He says. People began to rightly ask: Who will go to science school and other qualified high schools, who will go to ordinary high schools in the country, and what are the criteria? he was asked. Now, how do you prevent schools from inflating notes? Look, we've been saying this for years. For years, they have been inflating notes in schools owned by the people you are acting with, particularly those you now refer to as parallel. We have questions, but you didn't pay any attention. So we're saying... and we're going to go on here: since they can't draw lots for high schools that are so popular, isn't it possible that if each school does its own test, the torpedo, the favor head will go away? And again, Mr. Nabi came to the post when he had promised to remove the exams. After the press conference announced that the central exams would be lifted, we had a baby like a ball of light, which will be placed as TEOG. Can you imagine, I mean, how these were made in a momentary manner, and I made every one of them. It's also a sign of how he made this education into a toy board in his mind. And in the end, there's one more thing in pain: it cost the public 13.5 million, according to the 2013 figures of the SBS. Now, isn't that a shame? This money comes out of all of our pockets. I mean, there are families who can't bring home the honors at night. And when we think about it, I'd like to stress in particular what kind of a plague it is to be thrown around like this, and what you're up against. Now, as we came to these exams, we said, one of the most widely played exams was the OKS, the SBS, the TEOG. Now that we're looking, he's in a big mess again. Now, it's called level detection exams, but we've seen that schools no longer have any points to add to the success of children. I mean, even if the kid goes to Anadolu high school, goes to any other school, goes straight to high school, goes to vocational school, he doesn't have anything to gain. When we look at the school grade average, they're not very effective anymore, because you know that the current high schools of Anatolian high schools with the highest score in Turkey are empty, all of them moved to basic high schools. We closed the classrooms on one side and you opened them under the name Ethics Center. It goes on under the stairs. First you start with three classes, now with five classes, and more and more going on and on. As this system continues, those children are now studying from the highest graded schools to the basic high schools that apply the school system in the same way. Again, there's been some unrest in the schools lately, according to media reports. Appointments are being made by unlicensed managers, and especially by a method of considering an appointment criteria based solely on membership in the advocacy union. The law is never considered. I can't either throw the court in front of those who have won and returned, or they're facing a new test with a new regulation change. And when we look from here, we get news that the test is going to change again, the new system, the new curriculum, one by one. What's changed since then? Just a few years ago, the Undersecretary of National Education has now made statements, and he says: "There is also a change of curriculum in our goals because it's getting too heavy now." When the law of 4+4+4 comes, our children will now take lessons according to their abilities. What happened when they were called what happened? It's been ruled unreachable. Now it's the same story again. We're tired of these stories and fairy tales. Seriously, he's not on the ground, he's not a vision, he's not the future of Turkey, these stories you're offering. These people are no longer fooled because these people have no money. This nation only has one future, one money, property, something they care about, their children. The best thing he can offer his children is education, and the AKP really turned it into a puzzle board, but let's just say again, never trust this: it'll turn, it'll turn, it'll come back. When you arrived, a 7-year-old is almost 20 years old today. So this youth will cut your ticket. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0227par0086	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen will speak. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0228par0090	Mr. President, before you start speaking about the Maarif Foundation Bill, there is a very remarkable measure in the 8th verse of Maide, I remind you all: don't let your anger toward a people, a community, and your hatred for your hatred lead you away from justice.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0227par0092	Mr. Yasar, please...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0228par0093	The word may deserve applause, but I hope the work we're doing deserves applause, and the choices we make, and the decisions we make. While the Qur'an describes itself, one name...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0229par0095	There's got to be a self-criticism.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0228par0096	Of course, for all of us. We don't intend to condemn anyone here, put the Koran against anyone at the end of our swords. The Qur'an uses the expression "Furkan" when describing its own name. (Furkan is the one who distinguishes between wrong and right. So let's call this work clear. As a result, in this country, Mr. Özal, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Ecevit has encouraged the opening of these schools abroad; on every platform, at every opportunity, he complimented them, complimented them on every visit, played a facilitating role. The three current Prime Ministers -- the current President, the former Prime Minister and Mr. Gul -- have also shown similar approaches. When these schools were opening, at those ceremonies, at the Olympics -- everyone will remember -- we all liked it when the African children sang the song of Ankara. But I think everyone here knows that there's more to the matter than that. At least I'd like to remind you of two things that were reflected in the press -- for example, when the war broke out in Kosovo, when everyone left Kosovo, they didn't leave those schools because they weren't just there for the love of education, they had other labor units opening up, because of security, intelligence, and certain studies that the Allied country, as you know, would conduct on the basis of English education in those schools. Now, it's going to be like this until today, everyone will know that... there are other examples, but let's not count them, in Iraq, and when Iraq was invaded, one of the last places left was those schools, because the staff in those schools were doing other jobs other than teaching. Now, at the coming point, you think you can solve this problem by setting up a foundation. In this country, a lot of daycare centers -- you've all witnessed in the last few months -- you appoint trustees to private school, even college -- you think you've done it in civil law. In fact, you're not solving anything because after a while, all of this will all come back as compensation for this community. Because you're appointing trustees, and in three days, the trustee sinks the paper, bankrupts the TV, probably does the same thing to companies, foundations, and that's going to come in front of us in international law. What you can't solve inside, what you can't solve in this way -- hundreds of countries in the international arena have different laws -- you're going to build a foundation! Either we're not aware of the seriousness of what we're doing, or we're joking, or we're doing something to save the situation, you know, because there's pressure coming from somewhere. Now, we're talking about Cervantes, Goethe Institute, Robert College, for example. Dear friends, these schools have dated over a hundred years, and these institutions, about these foundations, have changed power in those countries over and over again, and the regime has changed, but they've stood behind what they've done. Now, there are a lot of things I can criticize about what's going on in these schools, and I've done those reviews in the past. For example, I've never found it right to have another nation's children memorize another nation's national anthem because you won't want what you don't want for yourself for anyone else. For every public, its national anthem, its own invasion march, its own national anthem is precious, but then when you see it as a big success when it's done and you brag about it, now you can't declare it a turd and get out of it technically. To be perfectly clear, this foundation, for once, will not be a foundation for our culture, for our culture literature, nor will it be a foundation for international law. Even if you try to build a simple foundation, you're talking about the foundation that you're going to take over thousands of schools, when you're applying to court -- there are experts here -- the first thing you're going to get is whether the budget that you've been assigned to is compatible. So with this source, is there any way that we can solve it, make it happen, is that realistic? Now, if you're thinking about taking over hundreds of schools at $1 million, it's age-old, but if you're going to try other methods, I mean, if you're going to try to get those countries to transfer those schools through diplomacy or something, I think that's why you need to push other channels. For example, the person who founded these schools is not returning Turkey's ally to Turkey. Now, do you think the Allied who didn't return the founder of the schools would allow these schools to be shut down, transferred, handed over to a foundation so easily, even though you built them together? But it'll be the other way around, I'm telling you now, we'll all see in a few months. Let this foundation take over schools abroad, dear friends, and the donations made by those you describe as charity owners in Turkey will come before Turkey on the charge of financing terrorism. You know, some of these banks are on the agenda right now. Some names make donations to some foundations under the financing of terrorism. There are attempts at this in the United Nations, and you're probably keeping a close eye on it. Now, just by linking these schools to terrorism, this is a shortcut that's going to come back to us like a boomerang when we talk about it for two days at work, we argue about it, and we put our hands down. We'll probably have diplomatic crises with hundreds of countries, legal crises. Let's just say, regardless of the moral side of the business, the political criticism that we're doing when these schools are being built, people may have done a good deed, they might have volunteered, some of the work that's done here may be good, some of it may be dangerous, some of it may be harmful, some of it may be unacceptable, but as a result, there's a law. You can't solve this by disregarding this law, ignoring this law, building a foundation like that. So I think you should think again about whether or not this work can actually be solved by this tool, this mechanism. You can break the law, you can afford it, but that's not enough to solve this problem. In particular, I think it's imperative that this Parliament, on the concept of terrorism and the financing of terrorism -- not just in between the law and so on -- put it on a more serious table in a few minutes -- because we're at a very critical point. Look, a few days ago Ihvan was considered a terrorist organization in Egypt. There are other examples in the world, so there are very serious historical examples in Palestine, in China. So the world is not going to be a fair world to try to punish every opponent, every anti-governmentist, by putting them into the concept of "terrorism," by putting them in the category of enemies and threats. It's a world where the power of the fittest can do whatever it wants without knowing any law. Today, other states in the world categorize other structures in the category of terrorist organizations, depriving them of their most basic rights, and in Turkey, the environments, which were very acceptable yesterday as a conjunctive, are being classified within this list and are being tried to be punished by this method. Dear friends, first of all, I'd like to express my discomfort with the relief of the word "vacif" so much. ▪ It is a very critical concept. It's probably one of the most sensitive concepts that need to be protected, after almost the concept of rights. But if you hold on to the way you're building your government, which you're aiming at -- you should actually call it the "gasp" -- to take over schools that other people have built, to take the initiative of the state, to cover it with the word "vacif" and cover its historical responsibility will be extremely heavy. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0230par0103	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. On behalf of him, Mr. Yasafil, the MP of Artvin, will speak to the Barracks. Here you go, Mr. Barracks.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0231par0107	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've come to express my views on Article 2 of the Maarif Foundation Act, and I salute you all. It's a very good attempt, and I hope it works soon. I can't make sense of the criticism. For one thing, there's talk of the failure of national education. The code of national education has been changed for years with an ideological approach, especially with a prohibitive understanding. For the first time, a sense of freedom has been restored to national training codes. For one thing, it's one of the first important things the AK PARTI government has ever done. Another is, really, the inequality of opportunity in national education has been lifted. Today, children studying in private schools in major cities, southeast of Turkey, north of Turkey, west of all schools, private schools and public schools were given a quality and a level of everything until they reached their smart board and tablet computer, and an inequality of opportunity was eliminated. Another, the physical conditions, the classes of 80 people, 100 people, are now being taught by 20 people in my science. The quality is going to go up from now on, and I believe that because colleges and high schools have been redesigned with liberal understanding. In that sense, we can't do it in Turkey, how can we do it in the world? I find it difficult to understand the logic. Turkey is a growing country, as it has been opened to the world in every way in recent years. His exports are increasing today as his illegal national product increases. A flight from Turkey to 54 countries in 2002 can be made to 114 countries today. Again, in 2002, when we have foreign diplomatic missions in 163 countries, we have an embassy in 234 countries; in 93 countries, we have an embassy in 135 countries today. As our exports have increased, our contractors in foreign countries are now investing over $200 billion. Of course, we must, of course, take care of the children of our Turkish citizens there, contribute to their best upbringing. When building a foundation, the common denominator is very important, you have to look at this common denominator. There are many foundations. Turkey has more than a thousand foundations in sixty-five years, and over 5,000 foundations have been established in this direction in 1984, and in thirty-two years. Some are the common denominator of education, some are the health, some are the human rights, some are the environment. Looking at the common denominator, let's see if we can do this with a foundation. Yes, we can't do it now with the existing foundations in Turkey, because the common denominator here is the representative issue of the Republic of Turkey; it is the representative issue of the Turkish nation, 75 million. It is not possible that any group, any group, any congregation, any foundation of any different structure, will be sufficient at the point of protecting Turkey's interests and representing Turkey there. In that sense, such a foundation is extremely important, and hopefully, I believe you'll do well there. On the other hand, of course, this can be done by the hands of the state. We also see the practices of the world today, which are done by these kinds of foundations. Because there's going to be a way to do things faster, more efficient, faster, because of the need to move quickly and quickly in these kind of studies. In that sense, I think the Maarif Foundation would be a very good service, especially if there was such an attempt in Turkey, as a new era in Turkish education history, as a new beginning, especially because it would serve in foreign countries. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0232par0116	Thank you, Mr. Barracks. On behalf of him, the other speaker is Mr. Erkan Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0233par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge to myself on Article 2 of Law 383. I salute your high council. The speaker before me, though, said it was a very good and beautiful design, but with the numbers I'm about to give you, actually, it's going to look like we're in two different worlds. We are far away from taking the 15th ranking of developed countries in our educational system starting with 4+4+4, then turning all schools into imam-traveling high schools, which are far behind the world's advanced civilizations, which are too far behind where we come from. Neither students nor parents nor educators are happy with this system. You know, there used to be a minister who said, "If it weren't for those students, how good would I be running the Ministry?" I'm afraid we've reached the point of this National Education without the Ministry. We're looking, why do we say that? 912,000 students from our high schools graduated last year. It's officially spilled on the college exam. On average, the answer was given from 40 questions to 19.3 in Turkish, from 40 in science to 3 in science, and from 40 in mathematics to 7.9 in math. This is the average of 912,000 students. So kids graduate without math, physics, chemistry, biology, philosophy, logic. We expect them to lead us to the level of prosperous civilizations. Of course, you have to explain that with an example. Microsoft recently released an artificial intelligence. This artificial intelligence was called Tay. First, Tay emphasised universal values, world citizenship, and then, after a while, he started hitting below the belt, speaking slang words, and spreading what he saw on social media, and Microsoft immediately pulled this project back, and it was getting out of control. The system in Turkey has also been transformed into the same state of Thai. What do educational children see? The thefts in Turkey, corruption, women's murders, human rights violations, war and many discussions. Even under this great House, when they look at it, they see chaos, chaos, confusion, the so-called representatives who will rule the nation. If we can't change this education system, the kids who grow up with it are bound to fail like Tay. In short, we expect new ways, new solutions in a non-institutional educational system. First of all, we need to correct the systems in this system. But shouldn't each individual have free brains? Shouldn't each individual have his own opinion? Shouldn't each individual have his own preferences? I'm afraid the present system is a long way from raising a thinking brain. In short, all the children, our future, are rapidly drifting towards disaster. This country can only be saved by the return of a modern educational system to the goal set by Ataturk. There has to be a country where people have to trust the government, and the government has to rely on people. The state is an institution in their service for the good of the people. In a country like this, the government doesn't pressure people, the rights of the state never precede human rights and freedoms. Such a country is not governed by constitutions that undermine human rights and freedoms. In a country like this, you don't impose one type of simple thought on people. And the last thing I'm saying is that free thinking should be developed, free individuals should be supported and researched, questioned, made new inventions, so to speak, until generations of people who can invent are raised here, let's make more laws, we'll build more foundations, we'll only deceive ourselves, but in the long term, when we look at it, we'll see that our country doesn't get to those places that are in the goals of government programs. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0234par0132	Thank you. Congressmans, we have now come to the question-answer section. We're ten minutes out. I'll take the questions in the first five minutes, and I'll promise Mr. Secretary in the next five minutes. Mr. Master... no. Mr. Clumsy... no. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0235par0138	I'm asking the Minister: 1) We have over 350,000 unassigned teachers. However, why are appointments not made so far when teachers are needed, why are the staff left empty, and why? 2) Is it the right way to employ a contract teacher without appointment? 3) Will you make changes in schools and systems to improve quality and quality in education? 4) When will you end transport training? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0236par0143	Thank you. Mr. Peksen...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0237par0145	Mr. Secretary, a few days ago, under the guise of the investigation in Tripoli, in a legal process, a number of teaching institutions, elementary education and high school institutions had been taken into custody. In the course of these arrests, there have been some serious victims. One example: An eight-and-a-half-month pregnant teacher was kept in custody for three days. Again, a teacher who had a baby 15 days ago was also kept under surveillance. As a Minister of National Education, can you explain these practices in harmony with the common conscience, the values of the law? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0236par0147	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0238par0148	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Secretary, I asked you last night, and the principals called and thanked me for your answer to the question I asked you last night. Hopefully, over the next few days, these school principals are looking forward to being appointed as previous, deposed principals. I didn't get an answer to one of my questions last night, so I went back into the system. By the end of 2016, which branches will the teacher run away from? We got a really serious call. We'd like to satisfy the curiosity of the candidates for teachers who look forward to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0239par0153	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0240par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, the question is 1: What is the current number of teachers and the number of teachers needed by the Ministry of National Education? Question 2: What number of teachers are waiting for the appointment for the teaching profession? What is the distribution of teachers who are waiting for the appointment according to majors? According to what criteria is the appointment of majors determined? Question 3: What plans do your Ministry have in the short term regarding the problems of non-assigned teachers? The question is 4: How many teachers have not been appointed from 2002 to date and committed suicide for psychological reasons? The question is 5: 2002. How many times has the number of unappointed teachers increased, and how many have they reached? Question 6: Is it the right approach to try to solve a teacher's deficit with a fee or contract teacher's employment? What's the difference between paying teachers and teachers who work at the same school and their monthly income? The social rights of paid teachers...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0241par0162	Thank you. Mr. Ahrazoglu...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0242par0164	Minister, how many Syrian students attend Turkish schools in Hatay? Are there schools in Hatay again teaching Syrian refugees? How many students do you read? Is the curriculum a Libyan curriculum? Has the curriculum been accepted by the Ministry of National Education? Are Syrians taught Turkish in schools? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0241par0166	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0243par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, 1.1 million of 3 million Syrian refugees are under 16 years of age. It is said that $10 million has been spent so far. For all of us in our country in particular, especially in the next decade, how much has the spending been made on uneducated children who will pose a major threat? Has it been checked whether the spending of this $10 million has reached its goal and will inspections be conducted at the continuation point? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0244par0170	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0245par0172	Thank you. Mr. President, first of all, my friends told me that those who were taken into custody in Tripoli had just been told -- that only his statement had been taken and that he had been dropped back after his testimony had been taken. Another is: Whoever actually made a judgment decision, we do all of those decisions, and that's what it takes to be a state of law. Another: The number of teachers waiting to be appointed in Turkey... we currently have over 900,000 teachers. There was a contract teacher at a time in Turkey. For the first time in the 2005-2006 teaching year, our ministry received staffed teachers under Article 4/b of Law No. 657. 20,000 in 2005-2006, 20,000 in the following year, 10,000 in 2007-2008, 20,000 in 2008-09. In 2011, however, they were recruited in accordance with Act 632. So there are no contracts at the moment. But since it's about application, there's only three people left, three contract teachers, and they didn't apply for the staff themselves. Right now, the contract teacher's salary is for 2016, so for the year we're in, it's around $2.194. In addition, 15 hours a week based on classroom teachers, 539 liras; they are paid close to $2,700 if we add them both up. Again, each of our two deputies on Syrian students told us that the number of Syrian children is 992,000, according to information provided by the Ministry of Interior Immigration Administration. So far, the number of Syrian students sent to our schools is 330,000. Of these 330,000 students, 220 thousand go to elementary school, 70,000 to secondary school, 40,000 to secondary school. And the vast majority of them are temporary -- they're also in Hatay -- they're in training camps, they're in camps. Out of the camps, 70 thousand of them go to private schools -- they can afford -- and they can go to public schools. In the coming period, we want to promote this training. Currently, teachers in the camps are being paid by UNICEF as support for those who continue. As a result, there are human rights here; whether it's a Syrian citizen or a temporary asylum in Turkey, we want to include the 300,000 in the coming period to 500,000, but as much as possible during the time that determines it. Sure, he needs an extra school, he needs an extra teacher. At the moment, Arabic is being taught in their own camps, and Turkish lessons are being taught five hours a week. We will also increase this Turkish period in the next period, but a curriculum is also required. An additional study is being conducted in our ministry.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0246par0178	Mr. Secretary, I asked you about the curriculum.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0245par0179	Oh, we say in the curriculum: I mean, at one point, Turkey thought it was falling behind in Europe. Thus, we pass on more information to our students, perhaps more than enough, thinking that we are behind in Europe, that we are missing information, that we are giving information to our own students. Whether it's useful to you or not, it's something else. Surely Peyami Safa has a speech that says, "Nutuk to the graduates," as stated there: "You will not be able to use three-quarters of the information you received during school, or any of it in life." This degree, perhaps, is not the end of education, but is part of the university of life or the education of life after that. Your real work begins from now on, by saying... so we know there's a pile-up in the curriculum. We need to lighten the curriculum. We also know that a value education is not being given. So...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0246par0180	I asked the Syrians about the Libyan curriculum, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0245par0181	...will include our national values, but it will be open to universal values... a friend of ours told me, like Saint Sancar. Surely no one has any doubt that he has reached the proper knowledge, the concrete knowledge, the modern knowledge. But, by the way, he says: "When I listen to the Styrofoam, my eyes weep."
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0247par0182	Saint Sancar is a national value.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0245par0183	And they asked again, "What would you be if you were again?" He said, "I would be a teacher." So what kind of student do you want to make...? We want to make disciples like Saint Sancar.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0247par0184	He won't be able to raise the Maarif Foundation.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0245par0185	Don't worry, the Maarif Foundation will raise it.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0247par0186	He's not gonna make it. And thou shalt be finished, and thou shalt make it parallel unto TERGEV.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0245par0187	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0248par0188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are four motions on the matter, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declarations of Article 2 of Article 2 of Law Bill 383 and Article 2 of Article 2 shall be changed in the form of "The Peace Foundation of Turkey," which is included in the title and text. First Ramadan Can Hilmi Bilgin Mehmet Demir Abdullah Özturk Sait Supreme Abdurrahman Öz Hakan Çağoğlu of Tamer Mountain Mehmet Habib Soluk Mujahit Durmuşoğlu Bayram Özçelik Necip Tezcan Yilmaz junç Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke (e) of Article 2 of the Common Law Bill 383 shall be changed in the following way. Zühal Topist Desire Open the Mind of Virtue e) In order to raise staffs in educational institutions to take over tasks such as training, teaching, consulting, and academic work; to build educational facilities, organise training programmes, encourage participation in these educational programmes abroad, provide participants with opportunities such as scholarships and housing, provide financial support for those operating institutions and co-operation with them when necessary. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm now going to read are of the same nature, I will proceed with the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law on Maarif Foundation Act 383 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Ayhan Bilgen Mizgin Irgat Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Maarif Foundation Act, number 383, be removed from the draft text. Tahsin Tarhan Erkan Aydın Gaye Beþer Ömer Fethi Gürer Murat Emir Does the commission participate in the same motions as read? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0249par0225	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0248par0226	Nüğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer will be the first to speak on the motions. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0250par0229	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the Maarif Foundation Law Bill aims to open schools abroad with the hands of the foundation, but is aimed at keeping the system under control through the bill. We all know where such a need comes from. Dear MPs, this country is all ours. What we're talking about here is the future of our country and our people. Unfortunately, national education has reached the most problematic position in our country. Education, the system of intergenerational information, which has been cut off, often changing educational policies, has led to the growth of generations far away from science and knowledge. Neoliberal and unscientific educational policies stand in the way of revealing abilities. Our educational system of intergenerational knowledge is beyond the removal of the education system, and the smart board of investments, despite a limited number of students, is unfortunately not successful after graduating with knowledge and science. The problems of the educational system are important in changing curriculums frequently, in which knowledge, science, research, and non-profit understanding enter the educational system, and the fact that the Ataturk (Ataturk) and its values have been removed from the books has been removed from the reality of the country. Many problems can be expressed from guidance to gender inequality in textbooks. It is also our people's general expectation that a scientific, contemporary, publicist, secular, law-oriented understanding of the principles and ideas of Ataturk prevails in education. Mr. President, valuable MPs, for the future of our education, culture of creativity must be developed. A productive society should be encouraged instead of a consumer society. Education must be heavily supported to contribute to the development of tourism. The culture of daydreaming must be created. When you say dreams, our children and our young ones have to think about vocational, invention, education policies in an understanding that will come into production. In our schools, the lessons of the city must be weighted as to the geography of the city, which is called the city. Unfortunately, foreign generations are growing in its city, its country, and children can't recognize it with their own culture, social fabric, folklore, the sense of food that exists. It is important that the city's history, geography, tourism, values, speech, folklore, food, and education will also be found in our schools, with the names of those who have succeeded. Dear lawmakers, teachers who cannot be appointed in our country are also an important problem. Like chemistry teachers, major teachers, such as technical teachers experience great sacrifices in this regard. When we think of vocational high schools, we think of only imam-gathering schools. In contrast, schools that will raise intermediaries, such as industrial vocational schools, which will enable children to acquire professions need to be cared for, and in this context, support for the development of schools as well as for the appointment of technical teachers. In addition, the function and purpose of industrial vocational upper secondary schools should be further developed, and the incentives for our children to study professions in this context should be increased. In our country, the way the education system is and the way it's thought to develop is the way our future is made. A society that doesn't meet knowledge should know that its future will be troubled. There is science and knowledge, that our children grow up with free thought, that right, justice, equality is a way of life for them, that struggles against poverty, that develops in a sense that's far from lying, thalan, stealing, in this context, that makes us think, that we have children who are light to the world, that I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0251par0240	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. The other speaker on the same motions is Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0252par0244	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 2nd Amendment. This is more about the activities and organs of this foundation. Well, technically, there's no need to explain them. However, I would like to read the exact terms of the foundation's activities: ▪ Buying pre-school education, primary education, secondary education and higher education institutions, co-operation within the legal boundaries of institutions and institutions involved in similar activities, accepting foreign and domestic assistance and the same assistance, establishing income providers abroad and becoming partners in the existing businesses. • I mean, that definition suggests that even a company's logic is in effect. The foundation is considered to be nonprofit organizations founded by many people and based on volunteering for the benefit of society, as far as we know and looking at the meaning of words from the Turkish Language Foundation. But there's an understanding that completely paves the way for commercial spaces, such as the company, for profit purposes. So we're dealing with a troubled area. Oh, well, we wouldn't object to that, so you're going to take out the word foundation here, and you're going to do the honor company law, which we're not going to say, but we're going to use the concept of a foundation and we're going to view it as a reflection of the business policies that you've run in national education. On the other hand, other public institutions and organisations cannot form other units for the same purpose in cities where the Maarif Foundation has opened up knitting and widespread educational institutions abroad. The term means the seizure of property belonging to all public institutions and institutions, including the Ministry of Education. So we say that these completely inappropriate definitions, along with these motions, should be removed from this text. Now, dear Ayhan Bilgen, who just spoke on behalf of our group about these schools abroad, has put together a beautiful framework. So in those foreign schools, here's the basic emphasis on assimilation in your speech in the Turkish Olympics. Protect your language, assimilate the people of Turkey who live abroad... Highlights about how important the native language is are fresh in all of our memories. Now, it's true, but I'm not saying that the approach or the phrases that are used there are incorrect, but the contradiction is that you're making a lot of things that you've predicted for Turkish abroad, that you've defined for Turkish, that you're making them a deterrent for other major languages here. So it is a great shame in this country that there is still no right to study in Kurdish, except in Kurdish, in Arabic, in Greek, Armenian, and in all other languages. So when we look at all the states of the world, look, there's more than one official language reality in all 113 countries from 194 countries in the United Nations alone. If you look at Spain, England, Sweden, Germany, China, India, South Africa, which continent and whatever country, you'll see how outdated the barrier to education is in this language. Just as the Minister of National Education was answering questions, we gave him the right to an elective course. That's worse than an apology. We have recognized the right to study in his native language. What right do you have to forbid it? How dare you not immediately remove those prohibitions and secure them as constitutional guarantees? You must answer them. So before this approach is abandoned, I'd like to point out here that there's no credibility to what you're saying about the native language. On the other hand, the electives have been offered, but, look, so far, the total number of teachers employed in Kurdish education has not reached 60. So, with each appointment period, seven teachers, five teachers, one teacher, we're teaching an elective course in Kurdish, give up your understanding.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0253par0251	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0252par0252	For these, I will only say one criteria: let one MP come in here and use a Kurdish sentence -- we've given up on the AKP, and see how this is defined as an unknown language, and I say, look at this, where you're studying in the native language. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0253par0255	Thank you. I will submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0254par0259	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0253par0260	We've got a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Adıyük, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Engin, Mr. Engin, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Becelier, Mr. Emir, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Balsbay, Mr. Şeşer, Mr. Ybeydemir, Mr. Green, Mr. Mr. Öz, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Cleanel, Mr. İrgil. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke (e) of Article 2 of the Common Law Bill 383 shall be changed in the following way. Altruism (Istanbul) and its companions e) In order to raise staffs in educational institutions to take over tasks such as training, teaching, consulting, and academic work; to build educational facilities, organise training programmes, encourage participation in these educational programmes abroad, provide participants with opportunities such as scholarships and housing, provide financial support for those operating institutions and co-operation with them when necessary. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0255par0277	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0253par0278	Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0256par0281	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, it's really hard this time of day, but like this, on the AKP side...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0257par0284	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0256par0285	Yes, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0258par0286	Mr. Topcu, I'll reboot your time. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0256par0288	Everyone's in a hurry to eat.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0258par0289	Mr. Topcu, wait a minute... I'll restart your time. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand you're having a conversation, but if you'll be quiet, we'll be able to hear the speaker. Here you go, Mr. Topcu, rebooting your time. [[AK PARTY rankings (also known as the "AK" hours)]] Congressman, that's not nice.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0259par0295	He's shamelessly objecting. Mr. President, that's not possible!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0258par0297	I hear it from here. I want you to know everything that's said.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0259par0298	Why is he objecting, Congressman?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0258par0299	Mr. Akçay, it's okay. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0260par0301	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0261par0303	What are you talking about? Get out!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0262par0304	Don't ask for roll call, then. You come in, you're uncomfortable, you're coming out, you're asking for roll call.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0263par0305	Congressmans, please, there's a congressman on the stand, and I invite you to be respectful.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0264par0306	So many MPs, do we have to listen?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0263par0307	I don't know what you mean. You have to!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0265par0308	Of course you have to.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0264par0309	I'm not.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0263par0310	Mr. Topcu, come in.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0266par0311	If you don't want to, get out, if you don't listen.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0264par0312	I'm not.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0266par0313	If you're sitting here, you're gonna listen.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0267par0314	Mr. Topcu, come in.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0268par0315	Then don't talk.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0269par0316	There's five of you, you're talking.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0268par0317	Mr. Elitaş, shut him up!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0269par0318	All these people are listening, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0270par0320	Mr. Topcu, come in.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0271par0321	Really, we're in a very... yeah, the picture that's being exhibited right now is really painful, let's just say that.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit03spe0270par0322	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Topcu, I'm taking a ten-minute break from apologizing to you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit04spe0270par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 102nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit05spe0270par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 102nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I'm taking a break from the merger until 9:45.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0270par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 102nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 383. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu will talk about his motion on Article 2 of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0272par0007	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0270par0008	Before you call, let's give Mr. Akçay a moment of your time. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0272par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, while our speaker, Mr. Topcu, was on the stand, some of the Justice and Development Party's MPs were in a very strange conflict, and they're disrupting the Parliament's work, some of our friends are creating a riot, and unfairly reacting to you, Mr. President and our speaker, who is leading the General Assembly. This reaction is an extremely unfair, meaningless, conflicting attitude. First of all, I'd like to point out that we're condemning lawmakers who have shown this attitude. Another contradiction is that a government bill is being discussed, as we see it, the Justice and Development Party Group, the government and the Minister are expecting this bill to come out as soon as possible.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0273par0016	Let's give it another minute, Mr. Akchay. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0272par0018	In such an effort. But we can't see the same atmosphere in the members of the Justice and Development Party Group, and we can't see that when we look at the situation in the current General Assembly. Your earlier warning and attitude are extremely appropriate. I especially see that the ruling party's parliamentary friends, the government, have brought in a bill of their own, are mentally disconnected from the study of Parliament. I wish they'd consider it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0274par0021	Thank you, Mr. Akçay, very kind of you. Mr. Zuhal Topcu, here you go. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0275par0028	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to remind you, first of all, that this is the nation's bench. We, as the voice of the people, speak here as the voice of those who choose us; so we don't think that anyone has the luxury of saying, "We don't listen, we don't have to listen." (MHP and CHP rows) For him, it's disrespectful to the public, and you owe this nation an apology, and those who say that have an apology, and we want to stress that from here. Now, as I've just said in my first speech, the Justice and Development Party's power is really entering into this action without any programs or plans. Now, I'm going to give you some of these statistics, and I'm going to give you the applications, along with the numbers. Now, we're looking at how young people are wasted, especially when we're preparing a program for young people. According to the 2014 household labour market survey, the number of young people who do not attend school is 2 million 175 thousand who do not continue to study. Look, 2 million 175 thousand young people, 15- and 19-year-olds, do not continue their education, and some of which are important, 73 percent of which are women, which are girls. We'd like to stress that in particular. There are 6,200,000 young people between 15 and 19 years of age, and 2 million young people who don't go on, and those who don't go on, and those who don't get an education, and by the way, there are 1.5 million young people in a system that automatically registers in schools that are described as open high school. What these young people do, where they go, is not followed; these young people are unemployed, and we want to make it clear to you what jobs these young people are dealing with in which drug densities they are in. We just said, because there's no vision and the programs are constantly renewed, we really don't have the patience anymore. I had just been interrupted, and there are also examples of Mr. Undersecretary's statements, the curriculum of education is changing. The curriculum will be reduced, the hours will be reduced, the elective courses will be increased. And the same words. The same words said in the 2013 law are now being said here. We're coming to the education schools now. Look, there are decisions made without thinking back. Now it's said that education schools will have dams at the entrance of education schools, but will they improve the quality of the teaching profession while this dam is being brought in? Will the appointments for the teaching profession be carried out by any plan or program? There's no study for them either. Here, our fellow lawmakers have just asked Mr. Secretary: "How many people do you want to appoint?" (For what majors do you want to appoint?) According to the latest data, we have young people who are waiting for 44,000 appointments this year. But as you can see, we don't have a schedule or a plan for appointing teachers yet. But we do know that if the election is decided, when the election is made or when the decision is made, where will it begin immediately? As for the appointment of teachers, immediately the quotas are separated, the staff is separated, and the appointments are made. But what happens again when these appointments are made like this? For the future, we can also see that only a policy with an index to politics has been implemented. The business high school is a matter of the country. We keep saying, but we see that it's never been a matter of a country that's really felt from the heart, that vocational high schools are still among the most undergraduate high schools in TEOG exams or other exams, where students are settled and last thought. But we see that these are the most important high schools in the development of a country, the most important in the development of interpersonal manpower. So we say, again, put your hat back in front of you and think. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0276par0037	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0277par0041	Mr. President, we were on our feet.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0276par0042	You were up, yes. We've got a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Karabeyik, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Arık, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Kayışoğlu, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Beselger, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Green, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Yım, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Yycık, Mr. Gekoğlu. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declarations of Article 2 of Article 2 of Law Bill 383 and Article 2 of Article 2 shall be changed in the form of "The Peace Foundation of Turkey," which is included in the title and text. İlknur İnceöz (Aksaray) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We're leaving it to our appreciation, Mr. President. Government? We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0278par0060	Motive...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0276par0061	I'm reading the reason: Since the established foundation will operate abroad, it would be appropriate to have its name in Turkey. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The bodies, organs, and tasks of the Maarif Foundation The bodies of the Maarif Foundation are the Board of Trustees, the Governing Body and the Board of Control. (2) The Trustee Committee is the ruling body of the Maarif Foundation and consists of twelve members. Four of them are from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the Higher Education Board, seven permanent members appointed by the President and three by the Council of Ministers and two as representatives of the Ministry of National Education. The real people and representatives of the corporate community who joined the foundation of the Maarif Foundation are the trustees of the Maarif Foundation. In the event of ejaculation in permanent memberships, permanent members will select new members for single-most ejaculated memberships. The membership of a member of the Trustee Committee, who has not attended three meetings in a row or five of the last ten meetings, without an excuse. (3) The Trustee Committee is authorized to make changes in the official letter of the Maarif Foundation when needed. (4) Permanent members of the Board of Trustees elect a five-year presidency among permanent members. (5) The Governing Body is the executive body of the Maarif Foundation and has the authority to represent the Maarif Foundation. The Governing Body consists of one president and six members. The Governing Body members and its president are appointed by the Trustee Committee for five years, and the appointed members may be dismissed by the Trustee Committee if necessary. The Trustee Committee can select members of the Governing Body from within or outside the Trustee Committee. (6) The Board of Control supervises the activities and accounts of the Maarif Foundation on behalf of the Trustee Committee. The Board of Control consists of five noble and five reserve members appointed by the Trustee Committee for five years. The creation of the Board of Control includes representatives of the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Finance. (7) Members of the Maarif Foundation Board of Trustees are elected from faculty graduates for at least four years and can serve until the age of 72. İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 3. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0279par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on Article 3 of the Maarif Foundation Act. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, today is Azerbaijan's National Liberation Day. With the opinion of one nation, two states, I congratulate and salute the National Liberation Day of our brother country Azerbaijan. May our unity be forever. Also, today is the anniversary of the death of the great Turkish writer Peyami Safa. I remember our author with mercy, gratitude, and longing, and I would like to start with the words of this great Turkish writer: "We have to be nationalists to be Turkish, not nationals!" Dear lawmakers, Article 3 of the bill we are discussing has been defined by the bodies, bodies, and tasks of the Maarif Foundation. It is stated that the Maarif Foundation, which was planned to be established in order to help raise young people who respect high moral and national values in its country, to provide financial and spiritual support for our nation or relatives outside the country or abroad, and to provide housing and education and education, will be made up of 12 people, including the President and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Minister of Foreign and Finance and Higher Education of the Council of the United Kingdom of Finland. In this case, I think the trustee committee of the foundation would be dependent on the presidency and the Council of Ministers, and therefore would be biased. As the National Movement Party, we believe that since this foundation will represent our country in the international arena, the Trustee Committee should be made up of people who are experts and equipped in its own fields, not from the government. Therefore, the appointment of 12 people who will be appointed as trustees must be reviewed again and carefully. It is also said that the Court of Control shall oversee the activities and accounts of the Maarif Foundation on behalf of the Board of trustees. However, financial control has not been specified by whom. There is also a need for clarity in this regard, and the relevant joke of the matter must be made clear. Although a long-term study of this bill is necessary, the effort to be passed in such a short period of time creates reservations at the point of confidence in this law. As it is known, the recent impact of the foundations on the education system and the sexual abuses of homes belonging to the foundations have shown the importance of those assigned to the foundations, and our nation is concerned about them. In addition, it is unacceptable for members of the Trustee Committee to serve until the age of 72 in the context of the law. Thus, he who is appointed to the Trustee will serve for about forty years. Given the way these people were appointed, they also appear to be trying to maintain the continuity of the biased administration, which makes sense. The National Education Foundation, established in each department of education and educational institutions of the National Education, is about the same as the Maarif Foundation, which aims to contribute materially and spiritually to the quality and cultural needs of society and people to meet economic, social and cultural needs. Why is a new foundation needed when the National Education Foundation is still in operation? It appears to be a question mark on all of our minds. A million Turkish liras will be paid for the establishment of the Maarif Foundation by the Ministry of National Education. So we can all see that the Ministry of National Education has contributed greatly to the foundation of the foundation. In this way, the national education ministry's funding for national education will be transferred to this foundation. The fact that such a great responsibility is being rushed through the House, the fact that it is being given the proposed law, makes our nation and us greatly uneasy at the point of trust. The foundation, which is intended to be established with a fund from the National Ministry of Education budget, is set up as Istanbul. In Ankara, the National Ministry of Education requires that the foundation's headquarters be located in Istanbul, which is also a matter of need of explanation. Dear lawmakers, education is the transfer of the society's values to new generations of knowledge and skill; for this purpose, teaching and training activities in schools and similar institutions. However, in 14 years in the AKP's government, 6 Minister of Education has changed, while with each coming Minister of National Education, the education system has also changed. It is said that the education system will change again, along with the National Minister of Education, which changed last month. Instead of the 4+4+4 education system, which has recently been implemented, 3+3+3+4 is claimed to be the future of the educational system. Let me make this request clear to you from the demands we have received, so that the ruling party can explain it, please. Education is a serious business that concerns the future of our children. Frequently making significant and sudden changes undermines and even destroys the trust of our nation's educational system. Our children, who are our future with the changing education system, are devastated. Our parents are complaining about it. I want to continue with a story, a story about methods and methods. The method we use to do something is so important... that there are two forestmen, my friends. The first of these woodsmen cut down trees for a month, and the second one cut down trees for a month. First, he worked tirelessly to win the race and thought, "I cut down the best trees, I cut down the most, without rest, or drinking day or night." The other woodsman worked the same way, and at the end of a month, the delegation was assembled and counted. In your minds, perhaps the question will arise: Which one was the 1st? Is he very hard-working, very fast, always on duty, or does he come back later and cut down trees at this point? Yes, the second was the 1st. And there's only one reason... that the first one was very angry, and he said, "Is it okay?" I've always worked, never rested. I didn't eat, I didn't drink, I cut down trees. And how did the second one win? The second one came back comfortably. He said: "When you were always working, cutting down trees, while I was resting in between, I sharpened my axe. I mean, the method is very important. For 14 years, the Ministry of National Education has been in control of the ruling party. Six ministers have changed and six ministers have come with new systems. These systems... so it's important not to work hard, not to stay on too many missions, but to do your job with the right methods. As it turns out, to do a job, not to do it, you have to do it in the right way, in the right way, in order to achieve the goal. Let's adapt this to the Ministry of National Education, to this office. What's the point of the Ministry? It is to carry out all the activities that will lead to the growth of young people with national, moral, and moral values. So, what's the method the ministry needs to use? Based on the right method of education, the right employment in schools, the implementation of the correct curriculum and the use of correct educational materials. However, we understand that the Ministry of National Education cannot fully control the schools within its own body. The problem is reflected in both our children and our families. Dear lawmakers, we also have parents who have been victims of the education system that has changed six times in the last 14 years. So I raised two sons, and now my daughter is in college, and my son is in high school. We've all gone through different applications of these testing systems, we've all had to send our children to classrooms, we've all had to hire tutors, we've even had to give our children to private schools because we're not happy with national education schools. So, if we had had an educational system that operates with the Turkish education curriculum, if we were satisfied with this education system, would we have prepared our children for additional classes, supplementary courses? We weren't going to. So the point of attention in the educational system is that in order for children not to experience trauma, the education system, which reflects their lasting, national, moral, and moral values, must be implemented. Finally, especially the interests of our beloved nation must be protected, which reminds us that we are here, and I would like to rephrase the national education curriculum. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0280par0094	Thank you, Your Grace. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0281par0098	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on Article 3 of the Maarif Foundation Act. I salute the General Assembly. The aim of the Maarif Foundation is to provide scholarships in all educational processes, such as schools, educational institutions, and dorms, to provide scientific research and development, based on the common savings and values of mankind abroad, and to provide and improve public education services. As it turns out, there is more to the establishment of a foundation that is equipped with more than the duties and powers of the Ministry of National Education. Why does the ministry want to hand over its original duties to a foundation, which is a matter of need of explanation? There are 65 educational institutions in 15 different countries. As part of the public education service, the government aims to fight the Maarif Foundation, which is envisioned to operate as a private company with state financing and support, while it should be strengthened by increasing the number of them. Clearly, the foundation's main objective is not education for children living abroad or promotion of country culture abroad. Dear MPs, of course, individuals, communities, countries need a positive image of identity that they produce about themselves, and they can institutionalize this positive image of identity by various means, and the foundations can be one of them. However, one of the functions of the Maarif Foundation for the purpose of the bill was to present the savings of our country in the field of education to the service of mankind. Dear lawmakers, we must admit that considering the education system in our country, it is not realistic to talk about the kind of savings that we can offer to the benefit of humanity. I'd like to ask, for example, what are we going to offer to humanity when we consider the situation in our universities? Now, let's look at universities in our country: yes, we've managed to build a university in each city, but we've thrown academics out of universities, we've arrested them, we've arrested them, we've put them in jail for saying, "Peace against war." Dear lawmakers, the threat of academics by punishment actually stems from the threat of free thought. The censorship of critical thinking on the grounds of national security and the beginning of it becoming a norm is an attempt to destroy academic freedom. Censorship and militant control, the branding of critical debate as treason, are the methods used by identifiable management understandings. Thus, this form of academic thought is to present the country's savings in the field of education to the service of mankind. It is evident that the expression is a non-responsibility, a non-realistic expression. Dear lawmakers, there are serious problems in Turkey that are ahead of the establishment of a financial foundation in the field of education, awaiting immediate solutions. Of course, we can talk about a number of problems that can be extended further, such as technical inadequacies in schools, intergalactic inequalities, recent increased abuses, a warped method for measuring information. However, if you'll excuse me, I'll continue my discussion by referring to textbooks, one of the main problems of education. Dear lawmakers, freeing textbooks to students is, of course, a very proper practice, in accordance with the social state principle. However, the content and quality of textbooks is a vital issue. The textbooks are one of the tools to develop collective identity and citizenship in people, providing information on how and who the human community in a country is made up. It should be noted that developing a democratic system and collective identity that different groups can live together equally is still one of the most important problems in modern society. In this framework, Turkey's most important problem is to develop a system and a horizon that will allow people who are different from Turkish language, religious Sunni Islam, to live together on the basis of equal citizenship. The textbooks that affect people's horizons, their views on themselves and on those who are different from them are one of the tools for Turkey's democratisation. However, Turkey is far from developing a pluralistic horizon and a sense of democratic citizenship in textbooks. Sadly, textbooks continue to be written with an understanding that singles people and sterilizes them. Dear lawmakers, for example, the 90th page of the Teacher Book of Social Information 5 is a statement directed to teachers: Stressing that our religious festivals, the Festival of Sacrifice and Ramadan, are celebrated throughout the country. The religious festivals celebrated in our country were written with a monotheistic understanding and only the festivals of Sunni Muslims. Yes, the Festival of Sacrifices and the Festival of Ramadan are also the religious festivals celebrated in our country, but these are not the only religious festivals celebrated in our country. The holy days of our Alevi citizens, our Christian and Jewish citizens, our humble citizens, are not included in the category of our religious festivals. Dear lawmakers, perhaps one of the most important issues in terms of representation of differences in textbooks is the situation of our Kurdish citizens. After many years of denial policies, Kurmanci, the fact that Zazaki's elective courses have been put into schools is of course an important development in the acceptance of the Kurds' existence. However, the textbooks still do not mention the existence of Kurds. In fact, the Kurmanci, who had been studied in the syllabus, is only mentioned once in Zazaki's textbook. The only place in the textbooks where the word "Kurd" is the subject of the nationalist communities in the period of fighting, as has been for many years. In this framework, the word "Kurdish" is mentioned only in the expression "Kurdish Teali Society" (Kurt Teali Society). Dear lawmakers, there are many negative consequences when the acceptable citizenship limit drawn in textbooks ignores Turkey's differences. In this way, textbooks function to sterilize their theories about social differences rather than enhancing them in social life. The current textbooks are far from equipped students with the citizenship skills required by the age. The result of ignoring or other differences is that social inequality is being reproduced through education. In this framework, it is very difficult for Kurds, Suryans, Armenians, Alevis, Roma, and many other groups to place themselves in the identity story in existing textbooks and feel belonging to the country. There is an urgent need for these identities to be removed from the textbooks, where there is a disputation of different ethnic, religious and cultural identities of our citizens, written with arguments and styles that can lead to negative attitudes or actions between cultures. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, another important problem is the National Ministry of Education's attitude to ignore the decisions on the mandatory religion course of the ECHM. As you know, in the last months of 2014, Mansur Yalçın and others announced the decision of Turkey. In the resolution, the European Convention on Human Rights of religious culture and moral knowledge in Turkey was 1st of the European Convention on Human Rights. It has been concluded that the Lu Subcommittee Protocol is contrary to the freedom of education under Article 2 of Article 2. The result reached by the ECHR is not the first. The ECHR had reached the same conclusion in its 2007 decision by Hasan and Action Rich Turkey. In this regard, Turkey is obliged to comply with Mansur Yalçın's decision, which was ratified under Article 46 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In this regard, the Ministry must devise a concrete action plan and address the right violation as soon as possible. As a result, I salute you all again, especially by stressing once again that the educational system in the country should be placed on a scientific, democratic and pluralistic basis that considers universal experience and development.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0282par0113	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Lale is going to speak for the People's Party. Here you go, Mr. Carabinieri.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0283par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary and valued MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding Article 3 of the Maarif Foundation Act. Let me point out that this structure is the preparation of a system that has been shaped according to the political intentions of power, it's preparation. I never think that children and young people are being cared for, and therefore we are already opposed to this design. Now, let's take a look. The bill mentions three bodies in the construction of the Maarif Foundation: the Trustee Committee, the Governing Body and the Board of Control. Look, there are 12 members on the Board of Trustees and 4 of them are determined by the President, 3 of them are determined by the Council of Ministers, 2 of them by the Ministry of National Education, 1 of them by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 1 of the Ministry of Finance and 1 of the members by the SEC. Congressmans, first of all, is the absence of a permanent member of the National Ministry of Education and its activity limited to only two representatives in the Board of Trustees, correct or legal? As you can see, the Ministry of National Education leaves its duties and control to the Foundations. Here a two-headed parallel system begins, and this complexity will continue. The Ministry of National Education has also handed over the authority to the Maarif Foundation on the schools it opens or opens abroad. Do you also feel that the Tevhidi Tedrisat Law, protected by Article 174 of the Constitution, was also violated? Yes, and I think this bill is in violation. Again, one important point is, given the formation of the Trustee Committee, it is also clear that a new TERGEV is being created under the President's control. Another point is that the trustee will be able to serve here until he is 72 years old. Is that even possible, Mr. Lawmakers? Imagine, at the age of 30, he joined the Board of Trustees, where he will remain for forty-two years. In fact, I will tell you what is easier: Let the father go to the son, and let them not trouble themselves. Is that even possible? Yes, another point is that even though it is contrary to the Constitution, the Maarif Foundation is being tasked with a public mission. Since it's a public mission, it should also be audited by the Ministry of National Education, but it doesn't exist by the Ministry of National Education. Where did the inspection go? Into himself, into his own body. Well, wouldn't that create a doubt? It will. Well, another point is that there is going to be a million Turkish liras given by the National Ministry of Education in the institutional stage, so it also requires court supervision. Well, is that a thing? No, I don't. At any stage, the Court is already avoided. Mr. Secretary, as shown in this bill, you never set up systems that bring the child's benefit to the center. You're just trying to create the future in your head, Turkey, which takes the foundations to the center and facilitates control. From your side and your eyes, from your glasses, I can understand you and I agree because the most efficient way to change the mechanism in a country is to change the education system, and you're doing this because it will serve your purpose. You want to get away from secular education, redesign education institutions and control as a backyard. You're dissolving the inspectorship. From here, you surround the education system with the rectors you've appointed. You rewrite the curriculum of education based on the structure in your head, including values education, and on the other hand, you want to leave the education of the educators to the foundations. The education of educators is done by the university. That's why the MPs, the high schoolers, are concerned about the future, they think they're coming, and they're having a question mark, so they're showing their reaction. I wish you'd reconsider that. So, you want to do all this work, but do you see the facts of national education, the facts of Turkey? I'd like to remind you again a little bit. Mr. Secretary, 2 million 715 thousand children still can't go to school. Dear female surrogates, I'm calling you 959 thousand girls didn't walk through the door of a school. Well, the other thing is, it's said that the share from the budget to the Ministry of National Education is constantly increasing. Members of parliament, the budget for investments in the Ministry of National Education has been reduced. It leaves the budget for personnel costs to the Ministry of National Education, but the budget for the Ministry of National Education is running low on investments. See, in 2002, the budget for investments from the Ministry of National Education is 18 per cent of the budget, while in 2016, it is down to 8 per cent, and someone should explain it. Yes, Turkey has no national children's policy, precious deputies. There is no such policy based on the benefit of children, the benefit of young people, the maximum benefit of the community. There is no Turkish national children's policy that is created as part of a whole with housing, security system, curriculum, education, university, elementary school, such collective thinking. Thus, our children are constantly swayed and constantly subjected to changes as trial and error boards. Now, I'd like to talk about another fact: the AKP is the one who facilitated the opening of the illegal education centre for the Foundation and associations. Why? In 2013, Article 263 of the Turkish Penal Code was abolished, and the prison sentence for six months to three years was removed from the six months that opened, employed, and employed illegal educational institutions. The Republican People's Party has taken the release of Article 263 of the Turkish Penal Code to the Constitutional Court. And what's the result? Against four votes, the Constitutional Court hasn't decided to call it off, so I'll point out. Another point: National Education does not solve the housing problem and gives it to private sectors and foundations. Look, since 2002, there have been 66% reductions in boarding elementary schools and student numbers, which we have called YIBO. In contrast, private student dorms have increased by 58 per cent, while 330 boarding schools in the Ministry of Religion have risen to 532. Well, another point: the growing injustice of income distribution in Turkey shows itself in education as well, precious MPs. And the rich spend 50 times more money in education than the poor, which is a fact of Turkey, you can't ignore that, councilors. Yes, we have succeeded in education. You say, you try to build foundations, but we also have the fact that there are still 31.41 percent of schools combined across the country. In fact, this training is not only in the east and southeast, but it is everywhere: I can count 64 in Ankara, 25 in İstanbul, 115 in İzmir, 123 in Balıkesir, 276 in Adıyaman, 262 in Samsun. Well, then, have a heart. Let's see the problems first, let's solve the problems first. You'll have to take the children's benefit to the center, Councillors, or this generation will have to answer to you in the future. Do not use their futures to your political ambitions. Please remove your hands from education and please do not make training the back yard of politics. It's really a sin for these children, these young people. Don't play with their futures, please. The Day will come when they will question each other. They're reacting right now. Please don't make a back yard of politics. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0284par0140	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. On behalf of him, Mr. Imran Kılıç of Kahramanmarash will speak. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0285par0144	Mr. President, honorable MPs, I salute the High Council. I congratulate you again on the month of Ramadan, which we understand and understand. We see that by this law two matures, both of our historical and national values, have been evaluated together; it's generous and it's a foundation. The foundation is an expression of a national participation, a spirit union, of moving to achieve the goals that a society is trying to achieve. The foundation of our civilization has an important place in our cultural history. It's possible to see it all over our cultural geography. The foundation stands before us as a concrete example of individuals walking hand in hand and heart around the common purpose of society. As a sign of posture and determination, it shows the dedication of individuals to the cause. The concept of dedication and dedication is not a temporary desire, nor is it an effort to save the day. The Maarif represents a great march that includes it, beyond all the elements of education and teaching. Just knowing, learning, not teaching, defines life itself. For this reason, the matter of honor is a matter of the land, a matter of historical responsibility and the claim to the culture that it takes to be human, the transfer of knowledge and thought to future generations. Respected lawmakers, we remember the world's most powerful countries throughout history with the value they've given to foundation-like organizations. The traces of history show that in its most obvious way. We see the pigeon's oaths, the bread of the needy, all the needs of the people from birth to death, dozens, hundreds of foundations, from environment to urban order. The foundation is an institution that eases the burden of the state, gives the power from the state to the nation, the power from the nation to the state. It is the most important institutional style of cooperation and solidarity that must be maintained and inherited for generations. Education, of course, is an important value that must be carried out under the responsibility of the state and owned by the state. The existence and healthy functioning of social institutions is possible only with the support of the state and the nation. Some of the topics discussed so far are the support of student parents, students, teachers, educational institutions and organisations in all aspects of economic and social matters, with quick, reasonable solutions, if necessary. The educational system, such as the social system, has always needed efforts by volunteers to contribute directly or indirectly to the educational system. For this, the Ministry of National Education needs the support of many NGOs. The foundation should not be considered a structuralisation of an ideology, but a concrete solution to the nation's concept. The works of yesterday's foundations are the common works that we benefit from, no matter what political thinking we are today, a figure of purpose, the ability to act together, the common thinking. The ownership of an establishment and its administration as a state and a nation does not weaken it, make it ideological, and make it strong and unmovable. As an example of a state meeting with the nation, it is of every importance that the government supports such an organization. Honourable lawmakers, the Maarif Foundation will be introduced to the Turkish national education system in terms of activities, management, expenditures, work, purposes, and will contribute in all aspects to the system, will be continued with a foundation understanding, will contribute to studies for education. The foundation with these feelings and thoughts says that our self-substantiated self-prosecution is our cause, and I wish the law to be a blessing, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0286par0155	Thank you, Mr. Sword. On behalf of him, the other speaker is Mr. Arzu Erdem, the Istanbul MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0287par0159	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on Article 3 of the Maarif Foundation Act. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, I asked our Minister of National Education yesterday as a written question motion to the former Minister of Education, but I can't get answers. I want to repeat the question in an elementary school in Istanbul, which is involved in the first-class life-knowing test: Who saved our home from the enemies? Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Abdullah Gül., again, who established the Republic in a elementary school school in Van? More surprising are the styles of the question: "Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Recep Tayyip Erdogan and İbrahim Tatlises." In these questions, the founder of our republic, the Great Leader Ataturk, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and Abdullah Gul. Even İbrahim Tatlises, was placed in the same square. It makes sense, and it raises the question that I asked you yesterday: Is this a method used to discredit High Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and do you intend to make changes in these test books? The answer I received from you was not in our control of the auxiliary publications published by the private sector. Mr. Secretary, this answer was given only to answer the question asked, and it raises concern for me, and it is not possible for us to accept your answer. If the matter is not under your control, who controls it, and what does the Board of Education and Discipline do? You should be concerned about what I'm bringing to the agenda. Aids used in national education schools have grave consequences, not being audited by the Ministry of National Education and not being approved by the Ministry of National Education. Our national, moral and moral values can be taught wrong, fresh, fresh minds can be poisoned, our glorious past can be mislabeled, and our children can be misled. What I have given to Mr. Secretary before you is an example of these helpful sources is the most important indicator of these misdirections. This vast gap that causes information pollution can cause great damage to future generations. Also, our teachers who work hard and strive to give our students a good education can be overlooked and may even be abused by those who have bad intentions. Dear MPs, Grand Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is a great soldier, a great statesman and an educator as well as a diplomat. Ataturk showed the importance of his education. When I was a child, I spent a penny on the book. Again, if you hadn't wanted to become President years later, I would have wanted to be Minister of National Education. This shows the importance of the Office of the Ministry of National Education, which is currently sitting. You know, the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal did not want to be Minister of Ataturk Energy, he did not want to be Minister of Environment and Urbanism. Dear lawmakers, a national training model is essential. A national perspective on the training model is essential and the teaching of national consciousness is one of the most important conditions. Here, the word that needs to be the basis of the national educational system is the word,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. I'd like to give you two examples: students raised by German curriculum in German schools finish school as a good German nationalist. Students who are raised in English schools with the British education system are homesick and call themselves Great Britain, and they dream about it. A Turkish teenager who is raised with the Turkish education system and the Turkish model must also graduate as a good Turkish nationalist, who knows the glory, honor, background, and has national values. Here is where the importance of educational materials used in schools emerges. The curriculum books used in the schools of national education must be audited by the Ministry of National Education and must be regulated. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0288par0167	Thank you, Your Grace. Congressmans, we have now come to the question-answer section. We're ten minutes out. In the first five minutes of this time, we'll take the questions, and I'll give the other five to the Minister to answer. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0289par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is it the right approach to try to solve the teacher's deficit with the job of a paid or contract teacher? What's the difference between paying teachers and the monthly income of staff teachers who work at the same school? What kind of work do you do to increase the fees and social rights of paid teachers? My second question: from 2002 to today, what is the level of quota increase in teaching schools in universities? What is the reason for this increase in quotas, even though there is no appointment? Question three: From 2002 to today, how many teachers have entered KPS, and how many have been appointed? Another question: is it true that they claim that there will be no appointment in August? If it's true, the KPSS exam...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0290par0177	Mr. Demirtaş...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0291par0178	The rotation, which was thought to be implemented last year, has been postponed for a year. We're getting numerous calls about the rotation that's making the education workers uncomfortable. This uncertain situation reduces the motivation of educational workers. Will teachers be given rotations? If so, how many years will it cover? Is it to be done in the city or not in the province? Again, there are reports of changes in the 4+4+4 system that you made in 2012. These reports make parents and students uncomfortable. Is there going to be any change in the 4+4+4 system? If there's going to be a change, what system are you planning to bring in?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0290par0180	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0292par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. My question will be to Mr. Ministry of National Education. The prosecutor's decision to stop the last execution has been halted, along with the appointment of the vice principal and vice principal. Which means the directorial appointment system at the Ministry of National Education is down. In the last two years, how many times has the Administration of Directors in the Ministry of National Education been changed, and how much damage has the state suffered? Will you be able to save money for the Chief of Staff, which is responsible for all of this? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0293par0184	Thank you, too. Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0294par0186	Thank you, Mr. President. My people, uh, my people, If the antennas are lying, If he's lying, the rotators, And if the Books are false, If the white screen is lying, If prayer lies, If the lullaby is lying, If the dream is lying, If the word lies, If the voice is lying, If your pool media is lying, If your color screens are lying, If your Minister of Justice is lying on the screen, your MP is lying on the stand, And if everything but your hands, everyone lies, So your hands don't rebel. And in this mortal, living world where you've already been so few guests, This reign of magnificence is so that this persecution doesn't end.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0295par0204	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0296par0205	It is said that the residence of the University of Pamukkale, Denizli University, located in Pineland, where the universities are studying, was given to TÜRGEV. Although I've already made a motion to question this, I haven't received an answer so far. I'm asking if this university-owned move has been donated. Two: Denizli High School is said to have been given its current name to Denizli Anadolu High School's Denizli Metropolitan Municipality. These buildings are thought to be built after the cycle at Denizli Metropolitan City Hall. Will the entire school, which is the home of education for years, be shut down? I've asked the same question before, but I didn't get an answer. I want the answers to these questions. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0297par0208	Thank you. Dear Yım, the last...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0298par0210	Mr. Transport Minister just left the hall, my question was to him. Mr. Ismet, the Minister of Transport came while he was out. We'll ask our question, but unfortunately, he left the hall ten seconds ago. I had some serious questions about traffic policies, but next time.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0297par0211	Okay. Mr. Secretary, please come in.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0299par0213	Now, first of all, is it the right way to hire a teacher or a hired teacher? We don't say it's true, it's absolutely not true. I mean, it's the right thing to do, but it's the right thing to do, and there's the truth of life, whether we like it or not, sometimes the truth of life is contractual, and I'm very clear. We send teachers to the southeast, and a year later, I tell them the number of teachers we assigned to me -- close to 90 percent coming back. Why? Due to the appointment of an alibi, due to the transfer of a partner. If we don't appoint a mate, he'll say again: "The state will protect the family in the Constitution." Well, if we don't get the teacher in there, we can't keep the family together, we can say stay there... so if we pull it here, it's empty, so we have to hire someone in the southeast. There's more teachers in the teacher deficit, and there's teachers in the southeast, but there's teachers on the payroll, and there's teachers in the contract. Look, we're going to bring in a law, and in this law, we're going to say that the contract teacher is staffed, let's just say he's staffed. We're going to have the teacher work five years east and southeast, and then we're going to put him on staff. After eight years of work, we'll be able to travel to other parts of Turkey. Otherwise, if you remove the contract status, you may not find one teacher to the southeast. Well, isn't that their right to be educated? Which means the right one is staffed, but needed... I'll tell you another thing, some of our friends here said that there are more teachers in some of our provinces, and one of them is called Tunceli. So, let's say the need for a teacher is hypothetical -- if 3,000 teachers are needed, the current teacher is 3,500. Why did it happen? They stayed there for an alibi. Ankara is like that, we don't need teachers here, but we can't send them. If we get them all 100% staffed, believe me, after that, we won't be able to assign anyone for an alibi. So there's a gap of about 6%, 94 percent of full staff. The gap, such as 6 per cent, causes some to change places in the Ministry of National Education because of their urgent need, some by God's mother and father - another excuse. Otherwise, if we get 100 percent staffed, if we fill 100 percent, we won't be able to get a transfer between the provinces. We said we don't have an appointment in August, so hopefully, we'll make an appointment in February. I'd just like to inform my friends that our number of teachers in official schools is 853,916, executive section 67,217. How many teachers do we have in total? We're a family of over a million, education families. This family has 921,133 members of teacher status. How much is a pay teacher? We have a pay teacher at 46.133. Another question is, is Rotation postponed, will it be implemented again? We are looking at this, really, we want to improve the quality of education. A teacher stays in a school for 12 years, 12 years later, and we always say... don't we, business blindness, in case there's a change. Is it okay to send a teacher to another school after 12 years of school? There's a plus, there's a minus. My brother was a teacher -- he's retired, and I'm telling you -- we all have family. After 12 years in a school... if he's going to retire in twenty-four years, twenty-five years, he's going to change two schools. How right it is to stay in one place for life, or it is reasonable to go to two schools until the retirement period, and it may also be a rotation. So, we're still considering it, and we haven't made the decision because it's very sensitive. We've seen, we're a family of 1 million, 921 thousand teachers, we're not saying that we're going to rotate them, but we're going to evaluate what's plus or minus, and then we're going to do what's necessary.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0300par0219	Mr. Secretary, how well you say it, it's not right for a man to stay in one place for the rest of his life; why do they stay in the Maarif Foundation for the rest of his life?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0299par0220	It doesn't stop, it doesn't stop, it doesn't stop, it doesn't stop, it doesn't stop. The trustee committee is a different thing. It's about the prosecution, and we're saying that it's the administration, and all kinds of actions and procedures of the administration are subject to law enforcement. Management can make mistakes, we can see our mistakes. Who will show us our mistakes? And our mistakes will be judged. But I'll tell you one thing: not every decision the judiciary makes is true -- there is an example, and I'll tell you that -- but the state of law is willing to accept the judgment as the truth. He has a rule on student placement, he says: "It will be placed from the highest point of view." The prosecution has decided that: "This is not true, you will appoint it as percentage slices." What are you going to do? It's not the right decision. This time you're saying: let the hundredth slice be taken into account, but within the percentage...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0301par0223	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you one more minute, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0299par0224	Thank you, Reverend President. Thus, those who have the highest points in the same percentage are appointed first, considering the hundredth slices. Therefore, we correct the Supreme Court's decision in implementing it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0302par0227	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, there are four motions on the matter, and I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the terms of Article 3/3 of Law Bill 383, which is included in the title and text of Article 3 (Maarif Foundation) in the form of the Turkish Maarif Foundation. İlknur İnceöz Ramazan Can Mehmet Demir Abdullah Ozturk Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Hilmi Bilgin Hağanoğlu Mehmet Habib Soluk of Tamer Mountain Yilmaz Tezcan Mujahit Durmuoğlu Ayşe Kşar Necip Shield Abdurrahman Öz Faruk Çaturoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide for the change of the third article of the 383 rows of the Common Law Charter (2), (4), and (6) in the following way. Zühal Topcu Open Mind Kamil Aydın Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Parsak Seyfetttin Yılmaz (2) The Trustee Committee is the ruling body of the Maarif Foundation and consists of twelve members. Among them are two permanent members appointed by the President and one by the Council of Ministers and five by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Foreign and Finance and representatives of the Higher Education Board, three from representatives of educational unions, one from a scientist who received a state artist or Nobel prize. (4) Permanent members of the Board of Trustees elect a three-year presidency among permanent members. (6) The Board of Control supervises the activities and accounts of the Maarif Foundation on behalf of the Trustee Committee. The Board of Control consists of five noble and five reserve members appointed by the Trustee Committee for five years. The creation of the Board of Control includes representatives of the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Finance. The Maarif Foundation is subject to the Court's audit. Congressmans, the motions I'm going to now read are of the same nature, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of Article 3 of the Maarif Foundation Act, number 383, be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Ayhan Bilgen Mizgin Irgat Lezgin Botan Erol Dora Müslüm Doğan The signatures of the other motion are: Tahsin Tarhan Erkan Aydın Gaye Beþer Peace Y Friend Tule Karbük Murat Amir Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0303par0269	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0302par0270	The first speaker on the proposals will be Mr. Barýþ Y friend of the Istanbul MP. Here you are, my friend.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0304par0273	The activation of the Maarif Foundation means the liquidation of the Ministry of National Education. The ministry, along with this bill, is becoming the branch manager of the Maarif Foundation, Mr. Secretary, and you are preparing to go down in history as a self-determination minister. In fact, there is no foundation set up, as Mr. Engin Altay said -- there is a holding arrangement. The adoption of the Maarif Foundation Bill will bring with it a new sense of parallel construction into our political lives. Turkey is now condemned to another, as it survives one parallel construction. It's got to be very clear. I hope tomorrow, Mr. Secretary, just like today, we've been deceived, deceived. Mr. Secretary, your ministry, which you're in charge of, you're only going to have to hand over their powers after a while, is a total problem. Look, the branch managers, who have been relieved of their duties -- which are five times more -- are unable to return to their duties despite court decisions. The questions we've made about this have no response from your Ministry. At this moment, your Ministry has a complete sense of joy. Your ministry eliminates the right of citizens to choose freely in converting all schools of Turkey into imams. So many of these strange paintings happen in imam-nephews. I'll give you this photo in a moment, Mr. Minister, at Eskişehir Yunus Emam Hatip High School, just as at the entrance of a tourism information office, names in different languages, signs in different languages. From Edirne to Kars, all citizens are overwhelmed with imam-responsibility, calling all of our deputies every day. Minister, one of the main problems of education is the decline of schooling. In all areas, the schooling rate is dropping, especially in the number of girls going to school, and the percentage of girls getting smaller. Another problem is that the classrooms are reduced, the number of students increased. Again, the result of wrong education policies has been opened up to child labor, and students have been reduced to cheap labor of capital. Meanwhile, a failed policy is the FATIH Project. The FATIH Project was told that 18 million students would be distributed computers, but the number remained at 730,000, and 730,000 computers were found to be in no way functioning. The teachers of the Ministry, who went to parallel construction with the Maarif Foundation, are almost doomed. According to the training-work data, 73 per cent of teachers have said that they cannot be motivated by lack of income. You just said, "Let us raise teachers like Aziz Sancar." But according to the study of Education and Work, 69 percent of our teachers have shown that if they find a new job, they will want to quit teaching immediately and want to. We said the Maarif Foundation is a new parallel structure, and I wonder, who will be the Fethullah Gulen of the parallel construction of the new Maarif Foundation? I wonder who you've chosen for yourself as the new Fethullah Gulen. On the other hand, one of the most important results in the study of Education-Work is that 69% of teachers suffer psychological problems due to lack of income. In this context, we still don't understand how the Maarif Foundation is going to come up with a solution to these problems, which, on the other hand, teachers are faced with rotational pressure. Mr. Secretary, our educational system is in complete decline because of its sense of sabbatical. We have to draw education and education back to the line of reason and science, free our students from the darkness of superstition. Our high schoolers who revolted and rebelled against the decayed order have revealed where the light is and what kind of educational system they want. Today, I salute those polar stars who have rebelled against the educational system once again from here, thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0305par0284	The other speaker on the same motions is Mr. Ayhan Bilgen, Kars MP. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0306par0286	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers who are most concerned about education reform and who have done great work on this issue in the past period, claiming that they need serious reform not only in education but also in public administration, but unfortunately, after being extradited by the President's office, one of the unfinished works is Dinçer. Omar Dinçer describes Turkey's national educational system as the most centralist education system since Uruguay. Our previous Minister of National Education has noted that the Plan and Budget Commission must resolve issues on school-based basis during the 2016 budget talks and must always go to the mandate. Now, if we look at the mechanism that we're trying to build with these approaches today, it's not really a stable, systematic, strategic plan because it's an effort to build a foundation to somehow connect schools abroad to the Ministry of National Education, to centralize them, like a buffer zone. Dear lawmakers, education management is, of course, a profession, but I think our education has a serious handicap for education in values before a number of discussions like model, system. There's a artifact. If the number of reading in Turkey today is getting lower and even the number of book editions has reduced to 500 ▪, I think we need to re-examine the type of person we're raising. The Azerbaijan population, described as two nations, one state, is almost one fifth of Turkey's population, but when you look at newspaper circulation, the total circulation in Turkey has more than both book pressure and newspaper circulation. Now, we're talking about a country out of Demirperde, in the East Bloc, whose economic status is far behind ours, but its reading rate is much higher. Of course, it's not right to argue about a reading of values, but as a result, if today our young people are looking at life with an approach based not on solidarity, sharing, but more on ambition, violence, winning, individual competition, I think the media, role model politicians, and above all, our educational system is getting a serious share. If we can't teach our young people a profile that we really refer to as good people, good citizens, who are at peace with universal values and who also care about the problems of the society, who are concerned about society's problems, a way of life based on the philosophy of life, not on ambitions such as easy wealth, rapid rise, but on the responsibility of creating the problems of society, then the reason for national education has disappeared. Yes, you can build a lot of schools, you can build a lot of buildings, you can build a lot of bridges, you can build a lot of dams, but it's not so easy to offer values education in a way that you can really stand behind, teach them, really give them a change in behavior, really in the mind world, in the heart world of young people. So instead of creating new institutions like this, trying new formulas, I think we have to face the contradiction between the work that first emerged for the purpose of national education, and put the radical, more radical, more radical changes into the table than the original. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0307par0292	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. I'm going to put the same motions to a vote.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0308par0296	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0307par0297	We've got a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Karbıyuk, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Gürer, Mr. All, Mr. Kayşoğlu, Mr. Şelizer, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Güyük, Mr. Kayan, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Bektaşoğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Öz, Mr. Topal, Mr. Topal, Mr. Adılbay, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Balbay, Mr. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide for the change of the third article of the 383 rows of the Common Law Charter (2), (4), and (6) in the following way. Altruism (Istanbul) and its companions (2) The Trustee Committee is the ruling body of the Maarif Foundation and consists of twelve members. Among them are two permanent members appointed by the President and one by the Council of Ministers and five by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Foreign and Finance and representatives of the Higher Education Board, three from representatives of educational unions, one from a scientist who received a state artist or Nobel prize. (4) Permanent members of the Board of Trustees elect a three-year presidency among permanent members. (6) The Board of Control supervises the activities and accounts of the Maarif Foundation on behalf of the Trustee Committee. The Board of Control consists of five noble and five reserve members appointed by the Trustee Committee for five years. The creation of the Board of Control includes representatives of the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Finance. The Maarif Foundation is subject to the Court's audit. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0309par0316	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0307par0317	İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0310par0319	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on Article 3 of the Maarif Foundation Act. I salute the General Assembly. Since I've given two more speeches today, I'd like to tell you one particular story in my speech, which is to distinguish between those who know love and those who don't know love. In particular, with the Ramadan bear that we've come to understand, perhaps we'll all have a vision. In Ramadan, a group of people gathered those who did not know love and said: "This evening we will prepare a generous table for you, all of you, please come hungry." And they took those who did not know love, and they set up a long table, and they sat against those who did not know it. The soups are here, the long dervish spoons are here. Those who didn't know love looked at one another, and they looked at a soup, and they looked at the long spoons, and they took the spoons, and they dipped them in the soup, and they woke up hungry before they could eat it. Those who knew the love of the second group came this time, and they sat opposite each other, and the long tables, and the soups came, and the spoons came, and those who knew love looked at each other with love. They dip the spoons in the soup and hand them to each other, and on both sides, they're full. I mean, knowing love means sharing love; Ramadan means sisterhood, Ramadan means friendship, Ramadan is month of love, Ramadan is month of respect. Again, I hope the Ramazan bear will bring blessings to the Turkish-Islam world. I especially wish that our union and our union will be permanent. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what is to be done with this law, what will be done with the Maarif Foundation? I've got a brief summary on this, and I'd like to sum it up. State-owned assets abroad can be handed over to the foundation free of charge by the Council of Ministers' decision, so the foundation can actually take over educational institutions abroad. The foundation will raise its own trainer, so today the task of raising a teacher will be transferred to a foundation, which is the duty of the Ministry of National Education. In cities where the foundation opened schools, no other public institution will be able to open schools and dorms. So, in fact, the mandates of the Minister of National Education will be transferred to this foundation, and schools will be opened, and dorms will be opened. All educational agencies belonging to other public institutions and organisations abroad can be shut down. So the people who work here will be able to make that decision, close the school. $1m to be spent on the organisation will be transferred from the Ministry of National Education budget to the foundation immediately. The government will be made up of those appointed by power. The fees of the officers will be determined by the trustees. I'd like to point out that this model is an alternative model of the Ministry of National Education. Why would an alternative model be created for the Ministry of National Education? This is a situation that needs to be explained and dangerous. In the meeting held at the Metropolitan Teacher's House, you used the expression Mr. Yilmaz, the Minister of National Education, who addressed the chiefs of education, again and again: The solution to whatever problems there are is in education; if there is ignorance, the solution is in education; if there is poverty, the solution is in education. Racism comes from ignorance, and the fight comes from ignorance. But education is the way to cure ignorance, and education is the way to cure poverty. I'd like to see this statement you've made about education reflected in the application this time, but I understand from here that there is much to be done in the existing education system. At the time of the former Minister of National Education's duties, the Court of State is 16. The agency had halted the process of appointing 1,709 branch managers in the case of Decision 2015/17164 and the Trade and Technical Education Union. In the previous term, Mr. Nabi Avcı, the Minister of National Education, said that only on the basis of appointments by the State, the provisions were cancelled, the appointments were not cancelled, so he acted against the law. I'd also like to thank you personally for telling us yesterday and today that you're going to treat our fellow congressman's questions in accordance with the law. I would like to announce again that the commitment of law to those who listen to us is made by Mr. Minister of National Education. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0311par0334	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the terms of Article 3/3 of Law Bill 383, which is included in the title and text of Article 3 (Maarif Foundation) in the form of the Turkish Maarif Foundation. İlknur İnceöz (Aksaray) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We're leaving it to our appreciation, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0312par0343	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0313par0344	Motive...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0311par0345	I'm reading the reason: Since the established foundation will operate abroad, it would be appropriate to have its name mentioned in Turkey. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. MAADDE 4- (1) determines the body of the Maarif Foundation and the rights of the Maarif Foundation to be paid to its new units by the Trustee Committee, with the fees, the fees, and the roads. (2) Those involved in the Maarif Foundation's organs benefit from the rights given to counselors who have been appointed to the foreign diplomatic missions of the Republic of Turkey under Article 5682 dated 15/7/1950. Mr. Deniz Depboylu will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 4. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0314par0357	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Movement Party Group regarding Article 4 of Article 383 of the Maarif Foundation Act. I salute you. Precious lawmakers have not been able to get rid of the problems of the Turkish national education system during the AKP, nor have a modern-day-level human growth order been created; however, no significant progress has been made, and especially qualitatively. As of all levels of education, not enough schooling has been achieved, the need for physical infrastructure and human resources has not been met, the funding has not been increased. Each step, much less solving the problem, has caused new problems. The government has always hoped to save the day, unable to implement a significant project on education involving millions of students and family from pre-school education to higher education. Under the name of integration to the European Union, a curriculum is implemented without national content. Other glasses have been looked at the issues representing the sensitivities of the Turkish nation, and it has been insufficient to determine policy and curriculum to ensure nationalism in education. Our oath was removed from elementary schools at the suggestion of those who initially served as separatists. Honored MPs, I would like to ask the Justice and Development Party MPs, especially the government, here: What part of our oath has bothered you? How could you be disturbed by the education of my Turk, my righteousness, my hard work, and how could you be disturbed by the way the children began with these goals every morning? Did Turk disturb the promise? Did he disturb the promise that I'm right? Did my worker disturb the promise? The principle is to protect my little ones, to count my elders, to love my homeland, to love my nation more than my core. What words, and what expressions have offended you? Isn't protecting the little ones, counting the big ones not just a sign of our national values, but also of our religious values? We couldn't understand how it bothered you to raise a generation of people who loved their homes more than their lives, to raise a youth who belonged to their people, who belonged to the Turkish nation, who were proud of their nation, who started the day with those words. Did it bother you to go to the country, to rise, to go forward? I swear that I will not stop walking in the way that you have opened, or do you be troubled by the promise of Ataturk (Ataturk), or did the target of Ataturk (Ataturk) disturb you? What was the course of Ataturk? To a nation that has gained independence by building the Republic of Turkey, its sovereignty is the country without conditions; walk on it. Did a leader's goal, which says, disturb it, or did my presence offend the Turkish presence? From time to time, you seek nationalism, you make nationalist speeches, and occasionally you put nationalism under your feet. Are you uncomfortable with this sentence, or is it the last time you said "Happy Turk"? Why has our oath been lifted? Our oath was judged by the AKP Düzce MP of its period as follows: Our oath should be carved out of the minds, containing very strong ideological messages. Do you really still think so? The first member of the province of Aydın, Dr. Reþit Galip. I remember him with respect and mercy. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] I wonder if the AKP is participating in the decision-making text in the 18th National Education Committee, which was written in the destruction process called solution. Unfortunately, an effective manpower plan during the AKP period did not occur; training programmes were not shaped according to this; they could not create an educational system with high employment sensitivity. This led to the unemployment of tens of thousands of college graduates. The government has turned the training field into a practice board. As the minister changed, the education curriculum changed, the examination systems changed. A teacher model and a teaching system that will respond to the expectations of the 21st century have not been determined, and now the task of raising teachers is being given to a foundation. Honourable MPs, we remember St. Sancar today, and I want to remember. Mr. St. Sancar was raised in Savur, Mardin, in a family with eight children, and was appointed as a child of this family, and at every opportunity, he offers his honor, loyalty to the teachers of the Republic of Turkey, who raised him. Again, I was raised in the Republic of Turkey, founded by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and I had the right and the chance to receive it. He left the Nobel medal with great love and respect. Dear lawmakers, my daughter is one of the last students to be raised by an Anatolian teacher's high school. I'm honored with his education, proud to be a student of such a school. His grandfather-in-law, my late father-in-law, Mr. Arif Depboy, is one of the first teachers raised by the Republic of Turkey. He did not only make disciples, but he built the schools where he trained his students by hand, and he even built the school with his own hands and with his friends. I went to government boarding school without money. My wife went to high school with no money. We were raised by the teachers of the Republic of Turkey. We didn't need a special lesson in any way because there were idealists, powerful, respected teachers trained by the state, trained by the Republic of Turkey, and we never needed a foundation, we never needed a foundation, we didn't need to put our backs to any association because there was a strong state of the Republic of Turkey behind us. As we read, the powerful Republic of Turkey has implemented institutions that have not left any students on the road and have personally supported their students.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0315par0367	Good for you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0314par0368	Now, why does the powerful Republic of Turkey -- I believe that it is strong, my country is strong, my state is strong -- leave these services to a foundation? Why is it that the government closes down its free boarding schools and closes down its village schools, leaving these children in the hands of their homes, their homes, where there's no foundation and they can't possibly be audited? So, do you guys feel good about it? You're representing the nation here, why shouldn't the children of this nation be raised in public school, proud to be Turks, to be taught by the teachers raised by the Turkish state, with their chests, their bosoms, their foreheads, their foreheads open, their hopes for the future? We've had this chance, and now you're just gonna ignore it and destroy it and leave our children in the hands of the Foundation? The Republic of Turkey, T. You have tried to remove the C. You have removed the oath; you have changed the curriculum; you have removed the nationality; you have censored Yunus Emret. Again, you removed Arif Nihat Asia from the curriculum, from the textbooks. I believe the State Department of Education is going to go down in history with the Maarif Foundation, which is parallel to itself, and that worries me very much. I leave this law and your decisions to the conscience of the great Turkish nation, which I believe still holds the national consciousness, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0316par0370	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0317par0374	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the Maarif Foundation Bill 383 rows. Dear lawmakers, the main purpose of this foundation is to build a new parallel ministry to compete with community schools, to build a educational institution that operates like a company on the basis of neoliberal policies, and to feed its own official ideology to society, through its own political perception of Islam, and by its intervention in education. Dear lawmakers, today many schools are forced to find their own resources, not even the most basic problems because they have no budget. This practically nullifies the fact that education in public schools is without money. Most of the public schools are unable to provide a healthy teaching service due to lack of resources, and are far behind in that sense. This has been seen as a conscious policy based on the disqualification of public education, the compulsion of students and parents to private schools in relation to the neoliberal policies that the EC PARTI government has long built in education. The creation of serious quality differences among schools and the complete testing-based structure of education are part of conscious policies. Instead of spending public resources and education budgets on qualified public education, the AKP plans to transfer its power to its ideological foundation. Transferring the public budget to an institution that serves ideological and political purposes is not acceptable. There are 65 educational institutions in 15 different countries. If you really want to do something about education, we need to work to increase the number of them, to strengthen the quality of the public education service. The government aims to fight off community schools abroad with the foundation envisioned to operate, such as a private company with state financing and support. In fact, a foundation is being established by means of the congregation against the congregation. If you care so much about our citizens' education, why don't you apply the decision the ECHR made on November 27, 2014? As you know, Turkey will comply with international agreements in May 2014, under the regulation of Article 90 of the Constitution. In the final joke of this article, international agreements adopted according to the law are under law. It cannot be applied to the Constitutional Court on the grounds of violation of the Constitution. Despite all of this, the decision of the European Convention for Human Rights of Human Rights, which was still violated in September 2014 by the First and Middle School institutions, under the Constitution, is not enforced because it was violated in accordance with the right to education of the European Convention on Human Rights. The ECHR, which evaluated the government's appeal, did not even consider it necessary to bring up the case. So the decision is finalized. The ECHR decision states that the state is not neutral on mandatory religious lessons and that the change in curriculum has been said to be not enough. It has also been highlighted in this decision that the education of religion that parents of Alevi believe and teaching send to school and that their values can lead to conflict, and that the right to be exempt from religion class for only Christian and Jewish students should be granted to all students, and that the Turkish education system is expected to develop a sensitivity to the European standards of the family's beliefs. Precious lawmakers are now in the 4th grade of primary school, where two hours a week, 9, 10, 11th and 12th graders are required to study religious culture and ethics for one hour a week in the upper secondary school 5, 6, 7 and 8th grade. On the other hand, there are three more elective classes in the religious, moral, and values group, which include electives in secondary school and upper secondary schools. This is the life of the Qur'an, the life of the holy Muhammad, and the basic religious knowledge. These include five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, and twelve. It is possible to say that two hours of religious education have already been given each year with lessons that can be chosen for eight years, considering that the choice of a course in secondary school means that the choice of the school administration, in fact, means the preferential elective courses put in front of the students. But no, that's not enough for the government. In case some students get out of the way and are afraid that they may not have studied religion, let everyone take this lesson. Such an approach, such as mathematics, physics, chemistry lessons, which feed on the basic goal of raising faithful generations, forces everyone to believe in it. Not only that, but they are forced to choose religious lessons for students and their families through many elective courses. In his speech on the Commission, he used the expression: "We are building a foundation to bring education institutions, which are the only educational and owned nation in the world, to satisfy the needs of the children of our citizens who live outside the country, to strengthen their ties with their homeland, and to provide education in the field of our country. We'd like to ask Mr. Secretary now, members of the Cabinet. You're going to deliver the sense of belonging to our citizens who live abroad without changing the existing education system that ignores the cultures, languages, beliefs of the people living in the homeland? You're going to bring education to citizens who live abroad without dealing with problems of the educational system, which is unique in many ways throughout the history of the republic? Just during the AK PARTY, which government of yours, which changed five education ministers in 14 years, will take abroad? That way we can multiply these questions, precious MPs. There's no reform that the AK PARTY governments can do today for education, unless they choose education in the native language, but do nothing but bring in unelectable lessons. I'd like to cut here from a limited period of time, and give smaller fractions of the education that we've adopted as a party. Our party rejects the concept of monotheistic education that ignores the languages of the ancient peoples of this land and subject these languages to assimilation through education. We argue that all languages, such as Kurdish, Lazca, Çerkece, Syriac, İsshi, Georgian, have to be protected and protected from the development and development of the historical wealth of these lands. We reject ideological interference in education through molding of beliefs. Instead of caring for the child's high benefits in education politics and practices, we reject policies and practices that protect the benefit of capital and power and thus cause inequality. We argue that all education policies and practices should be determined based on the child's high benefit and the principle of equality. In education, we reject single and antidemocratic education policies that ignore differences such as class, gender, sexual orientation, color, language, etnisity, religion, religion, religion. We advocate decontamination of education curriculum, textbooks, and other materials from single, sexist, sexist, centrist, militant, nationalist and showen content. We reject neoliberal education policies that prioritize capital in education, commercialise education, bring it to the market and weigh in on privatisation. We want the central and bureaucratic structure of education destroyed. We also focus on the organization of education from the centre to the centre, not on the ground, but on the organization from the local to the center. We reject the concept of education that keeps the student trapped in school, depriving him of nature and society. We argue that the practice of public and natural education is not limited to schools and classrooms alone. It's possible to extend this list further, but I'd like to conclude by saying that we're going to oppose another parallel foundation, which is intended to be set up as an excuse to fight the parallel. I also want to make a point to the Minister: I think it's up to the Minister to remove the mandatory religious lessons from Alevi as a member of Sivas, a province of Alevi, and also as Minister of National Education. That's actually very important to the Minister. I think it would be helpful to carry out a decision made by the international court and to remove this mandatory lesson in religion, which is imposed on the belief and teaching of Alevi, of course, not just on the belief and teaching of Alevi, but on other beliefs. I salute you all, your high council.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0318par0387	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Giresun MP Mr. Bulent Yener Bektaşoglu will speak. Here you are, Mr. Bektasoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've had a lot of applause, Mr. Bektasoglu.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0319par0392	Mr. President, dear MPs, Mr. Secretary, dear employees -- you are important to us -- I have made a pledge on the Maarif Foundation Bill. I hereby salute the High Council. I sincerely desire Ramadan to bring tolerance, sincerity and understanding to our great Assembly, but in a very important matter, such as national education -- of course, the rehab of Ramadan, the rehab of fasting, then food and the teravio prayer, I think, have brought a little fatigue -- and I think there are very few who listen to us. Isn't that right, Minister? Yeah, it's important today, it's about national education, it's about the National Education Foundation. Minister, what I'm about to say reflects a little truth. So, if we have any words to upset you, I'd like to say I'm sorry right now. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Every country has a national educational policy, but we have a national education policy that every minister brings with him. The more ministers we have, the more national education policy we have. Although our Minister is a very respectable, beautiful person, I think he came with his own unique national education policy. The AKP's government is taking steps to quickly drive the country away from the Turkish national education system, founded by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. These steps to raise religious and vindictive, conservative generations are unfortunately extremely difficult for our country's future. The Maarif Foundation Act is one of the closest examples. The government is not only playing with our country's education system but also with our country's future. Laik, scientific, modern education has never been so attacked. At this time, some foundations and associations, which have been formed under the name of NGOs, have been determined by the policy of the Ministry of National Education, which is very important. Education planning has been left to the direction and direction of the Foundations of the Foundations of TÜRGEV, the Science Spreading Society, the Commander, the Zahra Foundation, Ensar and the Union Foundations, and has been abandoned to the control of the foundations. These foundations, whose goal is to raise a generation in accordance with the ideology of political power, have dominated all levels of education from school investments to managerial appointments, education and teaching activities to travel, and have become alternative institutions to the Ministry of National Education. The Ministry of National Education has been completely disabled, and the administration has lost its manpower and will, and has given its power to the allies and congregations. Members of parliament, the fact that there are dozens of problems pending in education and that there will be an education foundation called the Maarif Foundation with the state's hands, is even more thoughtful and frightening, given the current picture. In our national education system, it's impossible for me to explain to you in detail the wrong practices of power. It's not possible for us to talk about all the events of national education in this short period of time -- but I think that the Supreme Assembly should be more concerned about giving priority to the Maarif Foundation instead of the following issues: 4+4+4+4 and the schooling rate of schooling is down in our country. The trend from secondary school to open high school is increasing. 32% of our high school students are registered in an open high school, Mr. Minister. Preschool education is not given enough importance. In his reports, the OECD warned us about our country's pre-school education. The FATIH Project, which has been presented as the opening and closing of the age, is unfortunately collapsed. The FATHIH Project has been transformed into a means to fund allies. Education workers, our hand-kissing teachers are in financial trouble, and unfortunately, that should not be ignored. In each institution -- as a union manager or manager -- you constantly play with legislation. You don't even enforce your judgment on this, just like the school principals you didn't extradite in spite of their judgment. Our Minister promised us that. You said, God willing, that our court-ordered directors would be appointed.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0320par0401	Right.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0319par0402	So I called 4,000 managers today, gave them good news, called them one by one. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The mentor teacher is a fact that even in our practice, you favor the advocacy union. Unfortunately, those who are not members of that union have no chance of coming on any mission, which is not a fair practice. Your goal is not to improve the quality of education in Turkey, but to create a pool through educational foundations. The example of TERGEV is proof of this situation. At the center of any tender donation system, TRUGEV stands. I'm afraid we don't quite understand what your passion is. The three-year November 6th Protocol of teachers assigned to courses in Turkish dorms is a concrete example of favouring their supporters, question mark. We also find it difficult to find answers to the question of organizing the Maarif Foundation, as we ask other foundations why privileges were not recognized. Members of parliament, private education institutions pay well when public schools can't find funding. While public schools are trying to get donations from parents to meet their needs, this is a serious, need-to-explain issue, which comes from most of our schools. Some complaints have come to us, sir, about the school's cleaning and so on, with the money collected from the parents. The problem of crowded classrooms has not been solved until today, unfortunately. We still have crowded classes. In education, the binary system continues in many schools, which is a fact. Is the number of schools that teach doubles across the country more than 10,000?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0321par0408	Less.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0319par0409	The psychological, social, and economic situation of non-assigned teachers, whose numbers reach 300,000, is pathetic, but no one has heard their voices. Can you hear me, Mr. Necip?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0322par0411	We hear it.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0319par0412	Turkey has a lack of teachers, a lack of classrooms. Teachers are unemployed, and there's no way to tell. With all these problems in the open, there's no point and there's no point in bringing in this bill for national education, and we don't understand it. Do you want to legalise the Fethullah Gülen training model in the US Project for the Green Belt? That's a question mark for us. The first purpose of this bill, as I've just told you, is to break down the secular order of education, and the second is to become a staff for fellow educators. See, that's clear in the four articles I promised on it. The bill is envisioned by the trustees' delegation to determine the amount of fees, fees and roads that will take part in the foundation's units, and that diplomatic passports will be given to those involved in the body of the foundation. It's like this: I mean, there's already a big problem with this foundation's membership election. The nobles of the 12 members are elected by the 7-member presidents and ministers. Their salary is also determined by the boards of directors. The boards will set these salaries according to the salary of the Conqueror Terim, whether they will adjust them according to the President's salary or according to the MP's salary, which is unknown, there is no such opening. Again, they're given diplomatic passports. This passport, I think, is a lifetime passport. Besides, a 30-year-old member will serve here on a yacht for forty-two years until he's 72 years old. We don't understand that either. Oh, how wonderful, how beautiful, diplomatic passported, granted immunity, astronomical paid, advocacy foundation trainers in our country, I'm afraid. I think that's going to be a bit of a problem in the future, my dear Minister. If there are so many resources, why don't you use them for the basic needs of education? Which means there's a lack of training inside. We have a saying in the Black Sea that the bride would have her head tied at a wedding that couldn't tie her own head. If we're having trouble in there, we need to fix this first. Education is a very important institution, a very important issue, a national issue. We are servants of God, and we are men, and we would be glad if you would take into account what we say, what we say, and what we say. (CHP) We'd like to share with you some of the interests of this country, with no ulterior motives. If we say nice things, we'll thank you if you'll accept them. Dear friends, the Bill of the Maarif Foundation Act also provides the task of raising educators who will serve at educational institutions to be opened. However, it is the duty of universities and institutions of the Ministry of National Education to raise our educators who will serve abroad and abroad. In Turkey, teaching is a legacy of our universities and the Ministry of National Education. It will never and never be pleasant to share it with another institution. Now, with this bill, the Ministry and its current appointment regulations are bypassed, and the foundation teachers are being replaced by national education teachers. A system that's being built, a fully autonomous model of education is being brought to our country.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0323par0421	Mr. Bektaşoglu, thank you. If you put it together, in the last sentence...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0319par0422	I'll clean it up, of course. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0323par0424	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0319par0425	Sir, this has come to a very dangerous stage. We want teachers waiting for this appointment to meet with their schools and students immediately, and we want this shame removed immediately. The government is building a system that the Ministry has established with its budget that universities will not accept, with pedagogic formations, experienced, well-bred, quality educators. I think it would be a shame for our teachers waiting for the appointment. We're warning you in good faith. You know, I think this wish and wish that all our friends have talked about, said, recommended to you would be part of our national education community. We don't want to beat up the farmer, we want to eat grapes. I'd like to tell you about these matters. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0324par0430	Thank you, Mr. Bektasoglu. Mr. Halil Etmez will speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Meatball.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0325par0434	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 4th Amendment of the Maarif Foundation Act. I salute you all. The EC PARTY, which has been in power for 14 years, thanks to our nation, is working hard to meet the expectations and demands of our citizens living abroad and abroad. Dear lawmakers have not been able to provide the expected education and school, called modern, to shape society, to transform the lives of members, to build a new moral order. When 65 percent of our population is under 35 years of age and compared with other countries, we have a young generation. Given that our population will grow old after the 2040s, we need to evaluate the next 2023, 2053. In the next 25 years, we can maintain optimism that our futures will be better than today if we train this generation in action from our own civilization code and prepare for the future as good homework people. In the process, we're basically trying to build a structure where we see each of our children as a potential for the future of our country and our nation, and none of them are eliminated in the examinations, they're not aligned, and we see them as a strategic entity. In short, we have to raise a different generation on the way to rebuild civilization, trusting itself and its country. Nurettin Topçu, an important inventor of our education world and our moral concerns, is the one who builds the spirit of the nation. The fall of the Maarif knocks the shit out of people. Wherever the Maarif walks, the spirit of the people follows. In that case, the people would say it's noble. Dear lawmakers, since we've been in office as a government, knowing how important the case is, every effort and action we've done in this field has been important steps towards training and discipline created by the codes of our own civilization. In 14 years, we have devoted the largest share of our budget to education, to briefly mention the serious work we have done on our education issue. With the 4+4+4 system, we wiped out the traces of the 28 February process, the impact period. We've eliminated the unfairness of the different coefficients that caused professional high schools to bleed out. We've eliminated the dress app that interfered with the training. We have reduced the number of students per classroom by doing one third of the total classroom in the history of the Republic, despite the growing population. We've removed obstacles in training. We've increased student scholarships by folding them. We give out textbooks for free, and there will be no one left who can't go to school. Dear lawmakers, we conduct a lot of work on meeting the demands of 5.5 million citizens living abroad and Turkish relatives, education, culture, social and so on. In the history of the world, as long as the world stands, there is an external representative in 168 countries today, who will continue to observe the rights and the law in the presence of the oppressed, in the presence of the oppressors, by the permission of God. In 15 percent of the embassies, 598 teachers at 65 schools with the Ministry of National Education teach 10,327 students. The number of schools will rise to 69, with four schools being launched in Kırgyzistan, Qatar, Georgia and Saudi Arabia, which will continue to be opened in the 2016-2017 school year. In addition to these schools, our 1,121 teacher, who has been assigned to teach Turkish and Turkish culture as part of co-operation with concerned countries, serves outside our country. Dear lawmakers, with the adoption of the Maarif Foundation Act, our citizens will be able to obtain a qualified education and our schools will have a flexible and powerful structure to compete with similar schools abroad. I say the Maarif Foundation will provide a historical mission as the institution of the nation, which will contribute to our country's global appearance and reputation, to the development of our ancient civilization, to the survival of our language and culture, to the survival of a nation that will take us to every geography of the world, especially in our civilization. Again, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0326par0443	Thank you, Mr. Meatball. In the name of the other speaker, Hatay MP Serkan Topal. Here you go, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0327par0447	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Unfortunately, we've been at the bottom of almost all the indexes that show the development of countries since the AKP came to power. The AKP is making all kinds of changes in education, and despite all our objections, it has unfortunately turned his student to his trainer, his guardian to his worker, into an entire national puzzle board. With its system, our country's data and communications technology is still suffering from a constant setback in its index, I'm afraid. In the most comprehensive global education research OECD (OECD) has ever done, Turkey has unfortunately ranked 41st in 76 countries. We're the last in our class to attend middle school for adults. Some of our fellow lawmakers up here say we're good at economics, we're good at education. But when we look at the numbers, I'm afraid we're the last. Yes, you've heard of the International Student Evaluation Programme, PISA. The Ministry of National Education takes great care of it on the web page. According to PISA results, Turkey's students are still the last, unfortunately, to read maths, to read science; to read Mexico, Chile and Brazil, with 462 points. If it's not true, you can come and explain it on this stand. You can be proud of that, Mr. AKP MPs. You brought in a system of 4+4+4, which you didn't stay with, you changed the exam systems almost every year, you're trying to change it. Thanks to you, our students are even surprised at what exams they will take every year. If you remember, in the eight-year uninterrupted education system, students had a three-and-a-half-year stay in school. The schooling rate of 53 per cent in secondary school increased to 98 per cent and to 67 per cent in high school. Our children went to school then, too. But with the freaky system you brought in... Look, in 1994, the number of 270,000 children fell to 958 thousand in eight years of uninterrupted training in 2006, but with the system you brought in today, I'm asking Mr. Secretary how many students, how many children are working today, I hope I'll be able to get an answer soon. I see you're serving photos of a teacher with flowers on social media. We didn't hear the story of Gamze Fitz Aslan, 35-year-old chemistry teacher who committed suicide with a shotgun at the home of AKP lawmakers who covered the problems of teachers, school, education, education, education, and teachers who ignored the problems of teachers and teachers who committed suicide for a while because they couldn't be assigned to Balıkesir's Burhaniye district, and neither did we hear the story of Selma Runan, an English teacher who committed suicide for a while, nor the story of Alim Koç, who killed my life because he couldn't wait eight years to be appointed in Aydın Insurance district. Moreover, we have not heard the results of the survey, which shows that 1 in 3 of the non-assigned teachers are suicidal. Mr. Secretary, you've obviously taken over a wreck. There have been many abusers of the good intentions of our previous Minister of National Education. We know all of you, and we want to believe in your good intentions. I hope we'll see your answers in practice, and time will tell. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0328par0457	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy. Congressmans, we've just come to the ten-minute question-answer section. We'll take the questions in the first five minutes of ten minutes, and I'll give Mr. Secretary time to answer those questions in the next five minutes. We'll start with Mr. Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0329par0462	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, every year in February and August, teachers were appointed, but this year again, the KPSS exam was held, which collected a lot of money from these students. If there was no appointment in August 2016, why did this KPSS test take place? Isn't that the government's means of unprovoked enrichment? Do you intend to return these funds? Another question: Again, teachers who are waiting for the appointment by your ministry need a different legal arrangement to be appointed in August. It has been said. Your explanations, or rather, the explanations that we can see. Well, even though there's been an appointment in August, there's no need for a legal arrangement in 2016, in August of Turkey...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0330par0466	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0331par0467	I'm asking the Minister: it's been a year since the June 7th elections. Terror goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on To our martyrs who died to protect the integrity of our country, I ask God's mercy, my condolences to their grieving families. In the last 365 days, we lost 549 soldiers and police, 453 civilians, and 1,002 citizens. When will the terror end under these developments? If we rule alone, terror will end. You said, you made this promise. 11 bombs have been detonated in our major cities in one year, and none of the people in the accountability office have left their post. The Home Secretary still hasn't been able to prevent it. So, is the Home Secretary considering resigning? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0332par0470	Mr. Ilican...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0333par0471	Thank you, my dear President. Mr. Minister, every year in traffic accidents, thousands of people die, tens of thousands are injured in our country. When you look at the reasons for all of this, the biggest share is 98% human error. As a solution, permanent consciousness and good education are very important, meaningful. With that thought, would your ministry, in this sense, have an initiative in primary school, middle school, college, forced traffic lessons, increased number, and started traffic teaching at universities, and started traffic engineering at universities? Would you support my opinion? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0334par0474	Thank you, Mr. Ilican. Mr. Green...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0335par0476	Mr. Secretary, you're building a new foundation in your Ministry. You share the authority and resources, you give all the resources to this foundation. However, as in Ankara's border districts, many districts of Turkey are given double education, non-assigned teachers are waiting for the appointment, the displaced managers want judicial decisions to be carried out. Wouldn't it be better for you to spend the energy you're going to spend on the foundation in single education in schools? Isn't it more appropriate for education to study to increase quality and level? Is it so hard to give happy news to an unauthorised teacher? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0336par0480	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0337par0481	Thank you, Mr. President. In May, seasonal workers arrive in Niğde province before the school closes and live in tents until their harvest period is over, turning like October. Children who come to the region with their families live in tents under unusual conditions, water, toilet facilities are limited, dusted, away from technology. In general, is it not possible that children of the age of education who can't work in the field should be given accelerated education during seasonal working periods in rural schools that are not used in the area? Can't they at least be trained in school instead of working in the garden, in a family field, without electricity, and live in a more orderly environment? Isn't it possible that for the summer period, in this context, they'll be considered productive in the process of opening a staff to non-assigned teachers? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0338par0484	Mr. Özdemir... Let's take the last question.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0339par0486	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the National Teacher Strategy Document, which was completed in 2011, is still unpublished today and has not been implemented in the school-based professional training model with teacher qualifications. However, after about five years, despite various feedbacks from the relevant units of civil society and other ministries, the redecoration of the draft, although the document was not published, is a major flaw in the quality of education. What is the reason that the National Teacher's Strategy Document, which was prepared in 2011 and about five years later and the educators have been curiously awaiting, has not been explained so far? Will it be a priority for your ministry to disclose this strategy document? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0340par0489	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0341par0491	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, the question of Mr. Özdemir... is that the National Teacher's Strategy Document has not yet been published. In 2011, they prepared it, prepared it, and gave it to me. So, I'm working on it, and we're going to publish it as soon as possible, but now that my friends have prepared it, they've given it to me, and once we've done a review, hopefully, okay, we'll publish it as soon as possible, so I think we'll publish it in a month. Another one asked about Niğde. Our deputy: Can education be given at village schools? For those who do not receive school education, can their children be trained while their fathers work? Let's take a look at it with my friends, but we usually think that these come after school.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0342par0494	They come and go in May in October, Minister. So they're missing from there for two months, two months. These are seasonal workers. They come from the southeast, they work in the fields, in the vineyard, in the garden, and then they turn around. Six months free, uneducated.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0341par0495	Let's take a look at this. So we want to give our students a better education. Look, we had children, students who were victims of this terrorism, we had a makeup training. We'll see if there's anyone who's been deprived of education. Friends, we've made a provision for this. If that legislation arrangement doesn't cover this lost training period or deficit, I think what you're saying may be considered. Another thing, Mr. Ilılılı said: there are thousands of accidents in traffic, we have citizens who have lost their lives, and in general, a major cause of these accidents is linked to human error. Thus, he said that education may be the way to correct the mistake. Traffic lessons are electives.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0343par0497	He doesn't have a teacher.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0341par0498	Is it possible for you to be forced to do that? I'm saying that we'll do everything we can to train the teacher for electives. Another deputy: Look, there are problems with education in Turkey; there are teachers who can't be appointed; there are double education. Why do you allocate your resources to the foundation when you have them? The sentence is: Surely there are problems with education in Turkey. If there are problems with education, if the children of nearly 6 million citizens abroad want school, ignore them if they want kindergarten education, ignore them if they want elementary school, secondary school, or even college. We say, "Right, we have problems in Turkey, we have problems, I agree. So 6 million... look, we have about 4 million citizens in Germany, many of whom have had to forget Turkish. In fact, it is said that because children cannot speak Turkish, when their grandparents arrive, they will speak Turkish, because they themselves will not be able to answer them very easily, because they change the room because they do not want to feel the discomfort of not being able to express themselves in that language. It's a real necessity, but if you say so, our citizens outside the country don't need education, we won't give it to them. If you say so, it's a choice. Then you might say...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0344par0500	Minister, can't we give this to the Ministry?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0341par0501	But it's concrete. Look, we think they need a school, and we think it'll be given through the foundation. If we end all the problems in the dorm and get back to them, there's no way in hell we're gonna get them. Again, as we go from here, we have friends who say that -- you know, we're the country that helps the most in the world compared to their national income -- so look, a brother of mine told us, and a deputy told us -- we have citizens who can't bring honor to their home. Why are you helping others when we have these citizens? As governments, we have to be able to look at any problem at any time. You need to be able to help abroad and provide as much training as you can for a citizen abroad. This is one of them. It's our choice. We want it to be like this... This foundation is a state foundation, this foundation is a public foundation. So if another public institution came and served in a place where two public foundations served, would it not be a waste of resources?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0344par0503	Mr. Secretary, why don't you do it with the Ministry, with the Ministry?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0341par0504	So we think it's more accurate.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0344par0505	Minister, why don't you do it with the Ministry? There are cultural attachés, there are national educational attachés, why do you do it with the foundation if you don't do it with them?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0341par0506	Can the only one we've sent a national educational attaché to open a school?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0345par0507	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0341par0508	Thank you. Yeah, with one... He needs one school. You say, "Let your national education attache." He has to be a teacher, you have to train teachers, you have to send materials, you have to make deals with the governments of that country, you have to get them here if they have schools. Believe me, once this is established, I think the negative images and perceptions of this foundation will all change. Again, another deputy said: "Look, you want to centralize schools abroad." Another said that the Ministry of National Education has handed over its powers, so you're being domesticated. So we have two different surrogates, and one of them says you're becoming centralized, and one of them says you're getting localized. Because the age of authority means localization. So I'm saying no localization, no centralization, whatever the citizen needs. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0346par0513	Thank you, Minister. Congressmans, there are four motions on the matter, I'm having them read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declarations of the "Maarif Foundation" in the text of Article 4 of Law Bill 383 are changed into "Turkey Maarif Foundation." İlknur İnceöz Ramazan Can Mehmet Demir Abdullah Ozturk Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Bayram Özcelik Hilmi Bilgin Tamer Mountain Hakan Sergeant Mehmet Habip Soluk Yılmaz Tezcan Mujahit Durmuoğlu Ayşe Küşar Halil Eldemir Necip Temsel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide and propose that the following article (1) be changed to Article 4 of the Common Law Bill 383. Zühal Topcu Muharrem Open Mind Desire Erdem Kamil Aydın Deniz Depboy (1) The fees for the organs of the Maarif Foundation, and for the new units of the Maarif Foundation, shall be set by the trustees' committee. Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same, so I'm going to study them together, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of Article 383 of the Maarif Foundation Act be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Ayhan Bilgen Mizgin Irgat The signatures of the other motion are: Tahsin Tarhan Erkan Aydın Gaye Beþer Ömer Fethi Gürer Murat Amir Ceyhun İrgil Does the commission participate in the same motions? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0347par0551	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0346par0552	Mr. Ceyhun İrgil will speak on the motions. Here you are, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0348par0555	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen and colleagues, I salute you all. There have been a lot of problems with the national education community and national education policies, which are written, thousands of them said, thousands of sentences were formed. Here we see the government's attitude towards us, against the opposition; they have a deafer, more indifferent, more insensitive attitude towards us. Experts on this subject have thousands of written writings, reports, and we see that they are not taken very seriously. Well, who knows the problems with education? The living know. Who are these people? Students and parents, you have to listen to them. In fact, in the last week, 370 high school and high school students have expressed problems with education, rebelled, and said, "That's enough." If you don't listen to us, Mr. Secretary and Minister of the Ministry, if you don't listen to us, listen to our children, our young people, who have experienced this training, have been tested on them, have lived these systems themselves, because they are one-on-one living people. We have a number of suggestions from our young people, who are called our futures, who are free of politics or certain interests. I'd like to ask the Minister and the Ministry officials to please read the statements issued by 370 high schools, high school students, because none of them contain insults or political rhetoric. They're all concrete suggestions about one-on-one events in their own school. For example, Vefa High School says that they have interfered with our traditional activities, which have been integrated into its name. Our school principal somehow made an excuse and canceled the festivities we've been hosting for 14 years. Again, they forced us to participate in lectures in our schools in order to impose on students the biased views of individuals and organizations that were not valid in the educational community. Again, the students of this vast tree -- they refer to this Vefa High School -- were pressured by the school principal by some threats and insults about clothing. There's a lot of examples. For example, from Ankara Türk Telekom Social Sciences High School, we had four intellectuals, progressive, modern teachers expelled, who had political magazines in their purse. On the grounds that the students were expelled from school, 13 students were threatened to be expelled from school because they attended the memorial of the October 10 massacre. Not only that, but the people in the dorm, in the mess hall, even in the schoolyard, who left us alone, who had no educational qualities, were appointed managers. We also have executives who are able to turn students against each other, who are government propaganda at every turn. In the same way, when we look at the declaration of Samsun School of Social Sciences, we have been tried to be removed from our goals by our school principal and our dorm manager for the past five years and raised as a student community that obeys without questioning. In this same way, in this high school, where we came in a great deal of excitement five years ago at this school, we were prevented from the graduation ceremony that we performed with our material and spiritual efforts. It is said that there were bullyings about it, as well as that these students were accused of being insensitive, treacherous minorities, and the students of this school are also saying that they will not be able to see their own humiliation in the same way on the same day that we gave two martyrs in the conflict in Şırnak. In the same way, students who were subjected to various insults and punishments for being seen side by a non-sexual friend at Eskişehir Seyitgazi Health High School are mentioned as being forced into mosques to pray and those who did not are threatened to fail this class. Mr. Secretary, dear friends, these are statements from our students, high school students themselves. If you see nothing, if you don't trust our words, listen to the words of your children's schoolmates, hear the cries of these high school students. We, the Republican People's Party, hear the cries of our high school students, and we are with you to the end of our high school students, and we honor their righteous struggle and once again declare that we are with them.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0349par0566	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. Another speaker on similar proposals will be Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0350par0569	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. We're going to ask for support in our motion, but first I'd like to say that I care once again about Mr. Minister's commitment to the Turkish citizen's children who live abroad, in case they don't forget Turkish. Yes, well, it's true, Mr. Secretary, but we expect you to express here the sensitivity of Turkish children abroad to their native language, as a sign of humanity and sincerity, to defend the children of the ancient peoples of this land for their native language. You know, for a long time, I mean, I...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0351par0571	Private school...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0350par0572	Private school isn't enough, private school is an insult, elective class isn't enough, it's an insult. Do you, as a Turk, consider giving your children a lesson in Turkish as an elective language abroad a criteria that can be accepted against assimilation? If you don't see it, then you'll empathize. Accepting the languages of all the peoples here like this, we can't solve any of our problems unless it's treated as a force that will weaken this country, not as a force that will weaken it. So look, Mr. Secretary, whether you deny it or not, we're going through a process where the Kurdish language and Kurdish language officially introduce themselves to everyone. I mean, why would Turkey still insist on this denial if it became officially recognised by Kurdish status or language in a 900km area on Turkey's border today? Is he going to disappear when you deny it? So there's Kobani across Suruç, there's 50 meters in between, and there's Kamashlı across the street, there's 100 meters in between. How can you deny the status-winning language on the other side when you say, "I'm denying the mother tongue, I'm not taking constitutional security, I'm seeing the country divided?" Do you think the Kurdish here will not question the situation here when he looks at the situation of the country that has earned the right to education in the native language, which is considered an official language? Because of this denial, we're doing it wrong on the wrong foot. This needs to be stopped. As soon as we give up this policy of denial in foreign policy and domestic policy, Turkey can become a country in the Middle East where it can be heard and perhaps a model of peace that can lead through all these fire processes. But we're looking at it wrongly and wrongly.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0351par0573	There's no such thing as denial politics.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0350par0574	Look, the recent errors in Syria and Rojava's policy revealed a major crisis with Russia. Now, our co-chair went to Russia with a delegation at the time, and expressed that the crisis was not in the interest of the people of Turkey and the people of Russia, but was accused of almost treason and treason from this stand. So, look, where did you come today? Russia is writing letters to President Erdoğan, here, Putin. Russia is celebrating its day; Banili Yıldırım is writing letters to Prime Minister Medvedev.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0351par0575	It's called diplomacy, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0350par0576	So let alone go to Moscow, you're putting this country in a position that's about ten flips to get an answer to a letter. There's no need for that.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0351par0577	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0352par0578	Are you jealous?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0350par0579	If you don't get into these kinds of mistakes, you don't have to deal with these kinds of processes. Look, our friends who are following the international media today know. Almost all international media say a new period of convergence has begun between Turkey and the Assad regime over the lack of Kurds' status. Assad... you were the ones who slaughtered 300,000 people here, but in the coming days, in the coming weeks, when we asked what kind of closeness we had with Israel here, the Minister who lived here denied it, but now it turns out that new relations with Israel are being developed. How will you explain the day after tomorrow if you come together with Assad (Assad) over Kurdish opposition alone? There's no need to make all these mistakes. Come and defend the Kurdish language, Kurdish language, and education in the native language, just as you defend the universal criteria for defending Turkish children, constitutional, legal guarantees. I'm saying don't make this country any worse on the international floor. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0353par0584	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0354par0585	You don't speak Kurdish yourself.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0350par0586	I know Kurdish, I don't know where?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0354par0587	Well, you don't know.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0350par0588	My mother tongue, how could I not know?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0355par0589	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0356par0590	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0357par0591	First, sit down, learn Kurdish, learn a proper language.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0358par0592	We speak Kurdish! What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0357par0593	You don't speak your own language.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0359par0594	Congressmans, I'm listening to the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0360par0595	Mr. President claimed in his speech that we were implementing a Kurdish anti-Kurdish opposition, that we would come together in the future through a Kurdish anti-Kurdish opposition, and that we would make an open taunt with our group.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0359par0596	I read about it in the newspapers." he said.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0360par0597	We claim, we want words.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0359par0598	Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0360par0602	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I must first state that in relations with Russia, there is the incident of the crash of Russia's plane that has violated our borders. In the event that the plane was shot down here, Turkey was wrong there. It's one thing to say, it's another thing to send them a letter about a national day, a letter from the Republic of Turkey. If you go and stand next to Russia and accuse your own country of this plane, you'll end up in a terrible place.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0361par0603	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0360par0604	A second issue, dear friends, is constantly being tried: there is a Kurdish hostility in Turkey, there is a Kurdish opposition in Turkey, there is a policy against Kurds, there is an assimilation in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0362par0605	No? Aliens destroyed the cities?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0360par0606	The same phrases are being used from this bench, persistently. Look, this AK PARTY has been in power for 14 years. At the end of the 14 years, you know very well where people's freedom to express themselves, their freedom to use their language, and they had no identity... look, the Kurds had no identity in Syria. Now that something's happened, they've won a language there and it's compared to Turkey. Don't go into that, Mr. Baluken, because there was a regime out there that didn't even know the Kurds existed.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0363par0608	They didn't have a birth certificate.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0360par0609	There is absolutely no way that Turkey would meet with Esed (Esed) and meet at the Kurdish opposition point. For one thing, discrimination was never at the point of Turkey's citizens. Here, policymakers will first look in the mirror, then they will come and accuse the AK PARTY at the Kurdish anti-Kurdish point. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0364par0612	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0365par0613	Mr. Baluken, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0364par0614	During his visit to Russia, the deputy leader of the group gave a speech stating that we were side by side with Russia. It's an open taunt.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0365par0615	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0364par0617	I salute you all again. I must say, Mr. Group Vice President, I have seen the first sentence in particular as extremely unfortunate. In no diplomatic discussion that we have ever conducted, no diplomatic work has ever been a single effort against our own country or our own people living in our own country, and we will not be anymore. This does not mean that we expose AKP's wrong foreign policies everywhere we are, and we already express them from this bench.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0366par0619	You can't even sign a genocide here. What are you talking about? Never mind, tell it to our cone.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0364par0620	We are already saying that the crisis you created with Russia is the result of the wrong Syrian and Rojava policy, and we are saying it here.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0366par0621	You couldn't even sign a genocide here, a joint statement. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0364par0622	If we'd known there was already a Russian plane, we wouldn't have dropped it.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0367par0623	Jirinovski liked you best. Do you know Jirinovski?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0364par0624	So you're the one who said that that crisis shouldn't actually happen. So I've come up here and I've welcomed the fact that you've made a mistake that you've done right now, that you've fallen back into a position of blind defense. So you can talk about your own work, but we, in international diplomacy and domestic politics, criticize the internal policies and foreign policies of the AKP, which are never, ever considered policies against the people living in our own country or in our country. On the other hand, the intimacy with Assad will not be long, and we will speak here with you again. Look, I've expressed my views from here long before, after the dismissal of Mr. Davutoglu, and the relations with Israel, and the wrongs of your government in different matters, but the process has always confirmed me. I hope we can't confirm that, and I hope you won't get involved in such a mistake, but developments and international media show that there's a process going on that will confirm me.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0367par0627	You'll see!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0368par0628	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I will submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0369par0635	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0368par0636	Request roll call. Mr. Akar, Mr. Karabiyek, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Topal, Mr. Kayşoglu, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Becelyer, Mr. Asseler, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Divisioner, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Kuğoğlu, Mr. Bişik, Mr. Öz, Mr. Adıdıyük, Mr. Man. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide and propose that Article 4 of Law Bill 383 be changed in the following way. The fees for the bodies of the Maarif Foundation and for the new units of the Maarif Foundation, which will be created with the official note, are determined by the Expenses and the Roads and other rights of the Trustee Committee. Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0370par0653	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0368par0654	Mr. Deniz Depboy will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0371par0657	Mr. President, Congressmans, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Movement Party Group on the amendment proposal for Article 4 of the Maarif Foundation Bill 383. Dear lawmakers, as the National Movement Party, the main aim of our education policies is to absorb the pride and awareness of the Turkish nation, the spiritual and cultural values, the ability to think, perceive and problem-solving, open to new developments, the sense of responsibility and public sensitivity, the production of science and technology, the development of entrepreneurs, democrats, cultured, virtuous and religious generations. In this framework, we believe that the equality of opportunities and opportunities in education and education, regardless of our children's religious beliefs, ethnic origins and philosophical ideas, should be based on the trends and abilities of all members of the community, that education policies should be structured with an understanding based on the high perspective of civilization, and frankly, from the Justice and Development Party -- which is among your duties as a government -- we expect similar behavior, expectation, and effort from you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in order to establish this entire educational policy... [[Noises]] Mr. President, is there any chance you could warn him?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0372par0663	Mr. Depboy, you're right, but we're all adults, and I think we need to know where to behave. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0371par0666	The purpose of education policies is to actually raise adults as individuals who can listen, absorb, and express themselves well enough to others. To accomplish all this, we need to raise our children in safety, maintain their psychological and physical health, maintain their education in peace and security. The national education ministry's greatest aim, its greatest effort, should be to protect the children of the state of the Republic of Turkey. But unfortunately, when we look at the events we've been going through lately, it turns out that the government can't protect our children enough. Because it's obvious that the boarding schools he shut down, the children he left in need of transport, were convicted of abuse and protection at the foundation and association homes. Unfortunately, these events have been painfully recent, and we are looking at today a tendency to build a new foundation called the Maarif Foundation, a parallel structure to the Ministry of National Education, leaving children entirely in the hands of the Foundation. Precious surrogates, it is the government's duty to protect children, it is not the foundation's duty to train children; it is the government's duty to train children; it is not the foundation's duty, and the state has to take every precaution to protect its children in the first place, to trust its teachers, to support the teachers' decisions, to support any kind of protection initiative for children. I'd like to remind you of what I said yesterday in my question to Mr. Minister of National Education. There have been three incidents in Aydın, and in two cases of abuse, teachers who have uncovered abuse have been expelled. When it's their duty to protect the children from these abuses, our fellow teachers are being banished. If the government can't protect the children, if it can't take care of and punish the teachers who protect the children, then we need to worry more. Look, seven children who were abused in one of these villages did not attend school for a month, and no one questioned the absence of these children, the village was not given psychosocial aid, the children were not given psychological support, nor were their teachers expelled. Well, in this case, the Ministry of National Education is wondering if he's trying to give up some responsibilities by pinning tasks he can't do on a foundation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I bid you good night, and salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0373par0674	Mr. Depboy, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declarations of the "Maarif Foundation" in the text of Article 4 of Law Bill 383 are changed into "Turkey Maarif Foundation." İlknur İnceöz (Aksaray) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We're leaving it to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0374par0683	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0375par0684	Motive...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit06spe0373par0685	I'm reading the reason: Since the established foundation will operate abroad, it would be appropriate to have its name in Turkey. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0373par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 102nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the talks of Bill 383. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Compromise, Exception, and Discounts With the Budget and Incomes of the Maarif Foundation Exclusion, exceptions and discounts with the financial and income of the Maarif Foundation MADDE 5- (1) The Maarif Foundation makes annual budgets in accordance with its objectives and activities under Article 2. The budget account period is the calendar year. The Maarif Foundation spends a third of its gross income within the year to the costs of financial, administrative, legal, and supporting jobs, management and maintenance, as well as the remaining two thirds to the purposes of the Maarif Foundation, and to investments and to increase the resources that work to achieve these objectives. In addition, the Maarif Foundation can establish, take over, and co-own an economic business or capital company abroad to carry out its objectives. (2) The income of the Maarif Foundation is: A) Aids with all kinds of subsidies, including grants from national and international funds in accordance with the Maarif Foundation's purpose. B) It is the same as all domestic and foreign products, services, real estate, property, and will donations and cash. C) Multiple incomes from foundation activities. ) The revenues provided from economic businesses, partnerships and partnerships. D) The foundation is carried and is provided with the assessment of its assets and other rights. e) The Council of Ministers shall be transferred from the general budget and from the relevant public institutions and institutions. f) Other incomes. A) from the tax of institutions (excluding economics and partnerships), B) As a result of donations and benefits, C) Due to the transactions carried out in accordance with the activities mentioned in this Law, from the stamp tax due to the papers provided in this scope, from the property tax due to the removal of the property, He's exempt. (4) The Maarif Foundation is used by the Council of Ministers to provide tax-exempt foundations with the exceptions of tax, image and tuition, which are known by other laws. (5) Funds and donations to the Maarif Foundation are deducted from income and institutional tax. On behalf of groups in Article 5 of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Baki Simsek will speak for them. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0376par0028	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on Article 5 of the Maarif Foundation Act, number 383. I salute the nation of St. Turk and the Grand Assembly. Dear MPs, the name of the Maarif Foundation, which will be established in order to conduct educational activities abroad and abroad, would wish that our nation's name would be the foundation for promoting Turkish culture or would be established under a name that represents Turkish culture passing through it. All the great states of the world give their names to the foundations and associations that they've established out there that run educational activities, such as the College of America, British Culture, American Culture, German High School. Even in Turkey, many people find it difficult to understand what it means when we call it the Maarif Foundation. It's clear and clear that we're going to have a hard time telling people who owns the Maarif Foundation abroad. Unfortunately, in our country, education policies are being run in parallel with government policies, and as a result, education policy is constantly changing and education is failing. A total of 13 changes have been made in the last 14 years, including curriculum, content, program and test system. In the meantime, six Ministers of National Education have changed, even though there are the same power. Our country faces many problems from crowded classrooms and schools in the country to the quality of education and the difficulties of non-assigned teachers. Unnecessary transfer of information to students is not at the desired quality and level of education due to the non-permanent lack of information, the memorized education system, the intensity of teaching programmes, the lack of resources, materials, equipment. Therefore, our primary concern should be the basic problems of education and teaching. In recent years, the impacts on the education system of the foundations, illegal educational institutions and dorms, given the inadequacy of the administrators and educators assigned to these institutions, we see that the establishment of the Maarif Foundation is not an urgent business. According to the 430 Tevhid-i Tedrisat Act, all educational institutions were transferred to the Ministry of National Education, but the mandate for schools that the Ministry of National Education opened abroad or opened will be transferred to the Maarif Foundation. Recently, the policy of the Ministry of National Education has been determined, especially by NGOs and some charities. The ministry has lost its directorate and has given its will to adherents and associations. It is thought that such a foundation will be established abroad by the state's hand. It is not a duty for the foundation to consider the task of raising instructors who can serve at these institutions, including domestically. The task of raising instructors who will serve abroad and abroad is for universities and the Ministry of National Education. Among the tasks of the Foundation are ▪ To develop, produce, and publish the education, programmes, and content that the Ministry of National Education approves. However, the foundation's task should be to apply the education, programmes, and content that the Ministry of National Education approves. The 5th article of the Law (4) is provided to all foundations known by the Council of Ministers to benefit from taxes, pictures, mortars and exceptions. With this clause, all the privileges granted to all the foundations have been recognized by the Maarif Foundation. This privilege to the Maarif Foundation violates the Constitution's principle of equality in front of the law. The bill cannot form other agencies for the same purpose in cities that have been established abroad by the Maarif Foundation and with widespread educational institutions. There is a blocking expression of the activities of the Ministry of National Education. This statement prevents the Ministry of National Education from operating and opening an institution in cities in which the foundation will open an educational institution. Because the education and teaching activities of our citizens abroad are conducted by the Ministry of National Education, Higher Education and Foreign Education General Directorate. Dear MPs, the Turkish state must first serve Turkish citizens. It is unfair to our children to be granted education, housing in universities, and monthly scholarships under the scholarship programme for Syrian refugees under the presidency of Turkish and Relative Community abroad. The conditions sought for scholarship programmes and untested registrations for Syrian refugees are that they are only Syrian citizens, were born in 1990 and later years, there is no legal barrier to Turkey, and they have a high school diploma with at least 60 per cent success. It has also been co-ordinated with YURTKUR to determine the universities where Syrian students will go and the dorms where they will stay. Syrian students, who will go to eight universities, including Mersin University, have been granted the opportunity to settle in the university they want without a test. On one hand, five ministers have seen five ministers in 11 years, taking the OKS test while preparing for the LGS, and two years later, seeing the three-step SBS (SBS) arrive in place of the OKS, then preparing for TEOG (TEOG), and on the other hand, I leave it to the conscience of the Supreme Assembly, who have no test, the only requirement is to be a high school graduate, and the only condition is to go to the part that he wants. In addition, in the last year of education, 20,000 students were given $2,680 in preschool, 50,000 in private elementary school, $3,220 in private secondary school, $3,750 in private school, and 110,000 students in private high school and in basic high school were given $3,750 in support, so in total, 230 thousand students went to private school. I'm sorry to say that I find this practice wrong. The economic situation of families who send children to private schools is at a certain level, why are you wasting the rights of the poor? With this kind of money, make the village children who can't read, or use this money for more social projects that our citizens can benefit from, let's get martyrs and veterans and successful poor children to read. Dear lawmakers, it is the duty of the state to appoint an unassigned teacher; order the education system; not to play with the system every year; to ensure that poor village children are safely educated by the state's hands. In order to raise healthier generations, apartment schools should be abandoned, sports spaces for students who are fit for physical development, especially for elementary school children, where education can be done and can be completed in a healthy way. So I'd like to ask you, what are our shortcomings in language education? Unfortunately, we're even behind in the Middle East. Is it the system's failures, or do we have an intelligence problem as a nation? I'd like your ministry to do some advanced work on this, and I would like to make sure that everyone who finishes high school is trained to learn at least one language enough. In addition to all these problems, students and teachers face many problems each year as schools open. Let him set an example this year. The ministry should do the appointment of teachers, substitute teachers, shipping contracts, book tenders, food tenders during the summer, before school opens, and our students can start their schools without problems. There have been problems in many parts of Turkey, especially in transport training last year, so let's take the necessary measures in time to prevent the same problems from happening again this year. I understand that a political power has changed the director of national education, but I don't think it's right for him to replace school principals and vice principals, with a completely, completely supportive understanding. Besides, I expect those who always talk about national wills to comply with the will of the faculty and with the election results of their appointment as chancellors. As a result of election promises during the election, I think it is necessary to be fair to be more transparently determined by ISKUR and the lottery in the purchase of servants who were taken to schools. I'm waiting for the removal of surrogacy, the appointment to be as much as the teacher's deficit. The decision was made to establish the University of Information Technologies in Mersin. However, in a city of 350,000 inhabitants, there is no home owned by the Credit Homes Association. We want the Credit Homes Agency to invest in this area, to solve the student housing problem; the system is currently running as a rental, and we demand that the number of dorms be increased. With all these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0377par0048	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Van MP Lezgin Botan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Botan.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0378par0052	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 5th Amendment on behalf of our party. In its 14-year-old administrations, the AKP's administrations based solely on consolidating the community's entire community, not on the benefit of society, but only on pleasing its own supporters and ideologically adding votes and supporters to its community. Despite all criticism, he insists on this method. These imposed practices of AKP governments are observed in every aspect of life, but they make you feel the most in the field of education. Middle school and high school students are now in a position to rebel against AKP's policies. In 2012, the AKP government decided to change its education system, a multilateral public service that concerned the general public, with an understanding that puts the universal norms of education aside, and imposed the educational system on society, which they had edited in their own minds despite all the criticism and suggestions. In particular, over the past 14 years, the public service that should have been a public service has been transformed into a commercial meta, and every level of education has been paid for, and has also been felt in the field of economic, class division education, which exists between poor people children and wealthy family children. Among other things, some practices and rhetorics that contribute to the abuse of religious beliefs and religious exploitation in education are being carried out contrary to the principles of universal human rights and education. In accordance with various protocols, educational institutions have been transformed into a means of power-building staff and supporters. The demand for education in the main language, which is a basic demand for Kurdish citizens, has been ignored in the past period of governments, as has been during the AKP administrations, and has been tried to avoid it with elective course regulations. The Kurds, as an ancient people, have as much work and sweat in this land as anyone. If they can't study in their native language, if they can't use education rights in their native language, when, where, and how? More than 2,000 Kurdish teachers who have graduated from Kurdistan are waiting to be appointed, Minister. However, there are 17 teachers who have been appointed on the basis of electives, which may be considered very funny. Again, I expect Mr. Minister to take good care of this sacrifice by his Kurdish teachers, who are waiting to be appointed. The structural problems that exist in the educational system throughout the Republic's history are within the framework of modern, democratic principles and steps to restructure human rights and freedoms in norms are the most urgent need today, while the AKP government prefers to revisit the system based on its political priorities. The AKP refuses to accept any action it does not say the last word, and almost wants to have one and the last word on everything. Just a few years ago, education and cultural institutions, which had been transferred to congregations abroad and abroad, are now being acquired using state power and public resources under the guise of fighting the parallel structure. In accordance with the law, there is no reason why anyone who commits crimes, acts criminally, should be challenged within the rule of law. In a manner of speaking, all public services are being brought into the service of the newly formed AKP community by the AKP. The Maarif Foundation Law Bill has also been brought up to meet this need. Although the Ministry of National Education has the authority to operate in all areas that the Maarif Foundation is supposed to operate in, the AKP government is trying to remove this authority from public control and to smuggle its activities into the Maarif Foundation, which it has designed as a parallel structure to the Ministry of National Education. The AKP government, which has decided to liquidate the community's activities as a danger to the continuation of its own power, has insisted on the cases of Kurdish politicians who have been thrown into prisons with false allegations prepared by the same community staff. While the AKP continues to enjoy illegal practices on the opposition, jointly with the community, it accuses the congregation on the charge of parallel construction and declares it illegal in matters that they must account for. The Maarif Foundation, which has been established as an instrument of the parallel structure, has come directly to the agenda at the request of the President. By 2013, the community's abroad schools were visited and supported at the prime minister's level, while Turkish Olympics were being organised using state opportunities, while the President suddenly voiced on his foreign visits in 2015 that they had to shut down congregation schools wherever he went. It is clear that the Maarif Foundation, which will be appointed mainly by the President, will work as a parallel ministry directly to the President, using public economic resources, and its activities will not be supervised by any authority. Article 42 of the Constitution is organised under the supervision and supervision of the state of education and teaching. All activities related to this form of education should be under the supervision and supervision of the Ministry of National Education, but it is understood that all processes related to education will be carried out by this foundation, starting an educational institution at all levels from pre-school to higher education, operating, producing and producing educational programmes and content; opening facilities such as housing, boarding houses, and housing. The activities listed among the activities of the foundation include pre-school education, elementary education, secondary education and higher education institutions, co-operation within legal limits with institutions and organisations in similar activities, accepting foreign and domestic and foreign assistance, establishing income-saving enterprises abroad and becoming partners to existing businesses, and activities that the foundations can't run according to the law. The foundation is a voluntary organization and is nonprofit, serving with the voluntary efforts and contributions of the founders and supporters to achieve its goal. The formation of the Trustee Committee, which is envisioned in the progress of the bill, is a diplomatic passport to the foundation's employees, in which other public institutions cannot operate in the same places the foundation operates. A clear decision on how to monitor the foundation's revenues shows that the foundation will operate directly within the framework of the AKP and the President's priorities, rather than act in public interest. Dear friends, all efforts that February 28 especially wanted to target and failed to accomplish should be congratulated on this matter by the AKP. Today, February 28th may not last a thousand years, but it is clear that thanks to the AKP, it will last another hundred years. All projected targets on February 28th are held today by AKP hands. This parallel structure copied from the accused congregation, with the logic of copying it, is now showing that the AKP is sort of copying the congregation here, playing a role in the congregation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this context, we see that the Ministry has been disabled, the Ministry has been bypassed, by the transfer of these powers under the Ministry's jurisdiction to the congregation. Greetings and greetings.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0379par0071	Thank you, Mr. Botan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Denizli MP Kazim lion will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0380par0075	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 5 of the Maarif Foundation Bill 383. I salute you all with love and respect. The law that we are discussing today is the tendency to leave national education policy to associations and foundations that will practice practices in the face of AKP-led and secular education, not the Ministry anymore. I find it difficult to understand why the Minister of National Education has handed over his original assignment, his training mission, his teaching assignment to the foundation. It is your duty as Minister of National Education to understand why you would trust the foundation with the work that allows national education and the best education for our children and allow them to grow up, grow up and grow up as a good individual. The establishment of an educational foundation known as the Maarif Foundation (E.G.), by the state's hand, means the destruction of the educational union. As long as you break up the training union, as long as you're away from secular and modern education, it's clear that you're trying to establish this foundation with a completely political sense of staffing. So through the foundations, you're trying to activate a fully-connected educational system, not a government-based structure. When we look at their income, the income of the 5th article shows that there were actually seven revenues, and that the revenues that the Ministry of National Education could not even receive were directed to the foundation. In addition, many exemptions will be established, including tax and tuition, allowing this foundation to develop, grow, develop, have a separate authority within the framework of national education, have a separate power. Such a strong foundation will also overtake the Ministry of National Education in the future, will have an economic power, and will continue to operate as a separate force in more ways than the Ministry. Today, this bill will allow for the complete elimination of the education conducted within the framework of the Ataturcist and Kemalist thought protected in the Constitution, and, according to the foundation, it will be able to train and raise young people according to the ideologies of the AKP. This law abandons the education of educators to the foundation, and gives many of the ministry's properties abroad to the foundation with one clause. Establishing a new foundation while the National Education Foundation already exists will also lead to the emergence of a parallel new foundation. The election of the Trustee Committee and its long term in office, allowing a member of the Trustee Committee to also take office in the administration, and actually running the Reservative Committee here, will the Governing Body run the foundation, or will the Governing Body run the board, which raises many questions. You have the Ministry of National Education here. While you have the ministry, I'm really surprised that you have the ability to do education in your ministry in a more qualified, more quality way, and that you have the economic resources, the power, the resources to be given to this foundation, and that you do not do so, although it is clear that you will be given a better education as long as it is within your Ministry. I'd like to say that I consider this foundation not for educational purposes, but for political purposes, as a foundation, because I think it's possible for the Minister of National Education to do all kinds of activities in the country and abroad, and I think it's only possible to understand why he's trying to maintain this through the foundation. Although education is carried out mainly by the state in all the world and developed countries, although this is the general situation, I would like to say that the fact that some of the education has been transferred to a foundation with many possibilities both domestically and abroad is truly a sad act on behalf of your Ministry. From the foundation of the Maarif Foundation to its establishment, it is also evident that it carries many doubts on it until it works. This foundation, established by the Ministry of National Education, did not even give the Ministry the opportunity to direct inspection. The Trustee Committee has the opportunity to make all changes in the changes to the trust. In the event that this foundation is a separate authority, it is also clear that it will lead to a really different area, a different environment, with the resources available to it. The Maarif Foundation will receive a million Turkish liras by the Ministry of National Education. In addition, many opportunities are provided for this foundation. In such an opportunity, I really don't appreciate you giving it to the foundation when our children have a better chance of growing up when you can have a better education on and within the framework of your ministry's board order and your staff. In general, the foundation's purpose is to build a foundation... in fact, the foundation is to actually maintain an opportunity, to keep an entity going over a foundation, to serve it constantly, to give it to you, to look at it from the face, to do it with these possibilities. Having a Ministry like this, perhaps in the future, the Ministry of National Education will disappear, allowing this education to continue through the foundation. Now, with this arrangement... this Maarif Foundation is indeed a violation of the basic elements of our Constitution, as well as of the educational union. I think it will be cancelled by the Supreme Court. I'd also like to say that this Maarif Foundation Act will not cause quality in education, but will cause more staffing, more politicalisation, and a lot of waste of time and many other possibilities. The Ministry of National Education will lose power. Cure: To restore the training union fully, we must look to the best possible way to give us a secular and modern education order entrusted to us by Ataturk. The AKP has changed its ministry six times. Every changing ministry tried to activate a system in its own way. Under the changing of this system, both our students and our teachers and our parents have made a major complaint. I find it difficult to understand that you still insist on this change, even though you've seen it. I bid you all good evening. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0381par0094	Thank you, Mr. lion. Mr. Leyla Şahin will speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Hawkmaster.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0382par0098	Mr. President, my esteemed lawmakers, first of all, I would like to begin by wishing the Ramazan moon to be blessed and blessed and blessed to the entire Islamic world. I have made a pledge on Article 5 of the Maarif Foundation Bill. First of all, I wish that our country's Maarif Foundation, our country, our nation, our nation, our family, our family, and our kinsmen, would benefit from pre-school education to university education, and add to our country's international education and cultural activities. We've been listening to talk about training since late at night. Don't build the backyard of education politics. I'm speaking to those who say: "You said that one day young people will answer; yes, that's a very true word; come, the moment of reckoning is now." Aren't you the one who made education the back yard of politics and didn't let the girls through the school gates? As one of the greatest atrocities in the history of education, not only on my behalf, but on behalf of all the women who are currently sitting in this seat of Congress, who have suffered the same hardships as me, who have experienced the same persecution, but also on behalf of thousands of other paralegals in this country who have suffered this persecution and suffering, have proven themselves, and are still trying to prove themselves in public, as a political woman today, I ask you on behalf of all the girls today: How are you going to answer for what you've done? I'd expect you to tell me what you've done with eight years of uninterrupted training. Let me tell you a little bit about what you've accomplished. You've made education one type. You've blocked out all the vocational high schools just to shut down the imam-haters and cut them off. Starting with upper secondary schools, you've differentiated children, you've discriminated against teenagers, you've expelled girls from school doors, you've campaigned for Girls' School, and now you're trying to do politics using high school teenagers. Come on, don't make politics the backyard of education. You've tried so hard to keep a generation of national and spiritual values from growing up, you've also signed the harshest periods of oppression, oppression. How are you going to account for these people? That's what I'm asking you today. And we have teachers, and of course we talk about it all the time. In the same way, I also cherish the teacher Fatma Kaymaz, who was murdered by a murderer a few days ago. To this day, I bless all our teachers who have died for any reason, either by terrorist organizations or by accident. I'm amazed at how much you've been thinking about our teachers. You fired, fired, dishonored thousands of female teachers in February 28th, hurt, injured, put them into psychological problems. You don't think about any of this, and you don't realize that you have an account for these teachers.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0383par0104	Erbakan was Prime Minister at the time. At that time, he was Prime Minister Erbakan.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0382par0105	There are thousands of female teachers waiting for an apology. I'd like to remind you that these teachers also have expectations for you on this occasion.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0384par0106	Was it Prime Minister Kemal Kilicdaroglu then?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0382par0107	I also want to ask the HDP (HDP) who talks about rights, justice and peace in education: How are you going to support them in the schoolyards, even when children and students are playing? How are you going to talk about justice and peace? You're talking about children's education; are you going to train them by giving stones to children, by forcing them to do drugs, by smuggling them into the mountains, or by exploiting them? You can't train like that. I want to ask you how you're going to account for these children's rights. We've always been the ones who thought of these children's rights and futures, and we'll be the next ones, I hope. Our esteemed MPs, our goal is great, our vision is great, and this foundation's purpose is clear and clear. A foundation is being established to address the problems of all our citizens and relatives living abroad. So, don't worry, don't worry, we've never done anything to hurt this country, and we won't do it again. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0385par0111	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0386par0112	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0385par0113	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0386par0114	He has made serious accusations against HDP People's Party (HDP). I want to answer them.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0385par0115	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0386par0118	Thank you. Mr. President, I believe that all of the talks that Mr. President had made in the part leading up to HDP have been true, but I have to say that the AKP government has all of those applications in the same way right now. So, just as the field of education was once turned into a backyard of politics, just as a single-site study was done, just as a wave of persecution has been made through teachers, students, like cylinders, you're doing the same thing today. Today you're going arm in arm with the February 28th. You're making the greatest alliance with the same coup d'état right now. Here, just a few days ago, the law on armor that you brought to that understanding from the Commission will come to the General Assembly in a few weeks. Therefore, for the sincerity of your words, you needed to learn from those wrongs and take on a democratic process. Just, look, I'm going to read to you the number of teachers, public workers, education workers who have been investigated over the past three months: 4,900 workers in Diyarbakır, 3,000 in İzmir, 2,600 in Mardin, 2,200 in Van. Over 1,200 in Batman, 499 in Adıyaman -- 125 public workers in Siverek have been subjected to investigations during the period of your government, only because they have condemned the Ankara massacre. So, in order for you to say these things, you had to have internalized democracy first. We can't accept any of the charges you've made against HDP, we'll answer him, but at least when you're talking about child abuse, I think a confrontation with the Ensar Foundation will sum up the current picture. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0387par0123	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0388par0124	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0387par0125	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0388par0126	The preacher made a direct call by targeting our group, saying that we were arm in arm with the February 28th, that we had to face the Ensar Foundation, and in that sense, there was bullying on our group, I want to promise.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0387par0127	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0388par0130	Mr. President, we're considering the law on the Maarif Foundation. First of all, the talks mentioned that 4+4+4 education system was a freak.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0389par0131	Well, it is.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0388par0132	Since when did the flexible education system, dear friends, become a freak? Look, when I graduated from high school in 1999, because I graduated from vocational high school, we could not go to a university in Turkey because they applied coefficients.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0390par0133	You're a congressman, isn't that enough?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0388par0134	This law was corrected by a bill that I voted for during the 24th Legislature. There's talk of imam-members, friends, you don't have to go, you don't have to send your children. It's sent by citizens who want to send it, so you can send your children to a different place. By the way, it's based on supply and demand. One Imam at a time in their speech, sends their child to them, and sends them away to whomever he pleases. The race is equal, friends...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0391par0136	Do you force him if he doesn't want to?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0388par0137	...as she took her college exam, when she took her college exam...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0392par0139	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0388par0140	...everyone's being placed in a faculty based on their score, not the way we met.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0393par0141	Okay, Mr. President, if the parents don't want to...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0388par0142	First of all, he mentioned the armor code, Your Honor.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0393par0143	Wait a minute, Mr. President, are you pushing it if the people don't want it? Are you forcing families or not?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0388par0144	Mr. Hatip, we're meeting with the Maarif Foundation, and we'll discuss it here when the law, which you call "Zirrich" comes.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0393par0145	Can you tell me if you're forcing the families or not?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0388par0146	Single-type, flexible training model... when you compare the flexible training model with the uninterrupted training model... which is the only type of training model? Friends, the training has been up to 12 years, and this is a flexible training model, not a single-strength model.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0393par0147	You're not pushing it, are you? So, why do the parents object? They're acting all over the place.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0388par0148	The decision of the court regarding the Ensar Foundation is clear, the court's decision is clear, friends, so don't try to refer to our party every once in a while, you won't get any bread from here.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0393par0150	Why do families object? Families are acting all over the place.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0394par0151	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0395par0152	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0394par0153	The ruling party that just spoke before our group vice president...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0395par0154	Mr. Leyla Falcon...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0394par0155	Mr. Hawk, if I misunderstood our party, it's okay, but I got the impression that it connected our party to February 28th, right?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0396par0156	He never mentioned your name.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0395par0157	No, he didn't say anything about CHP.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0394par0158	Where's Mrs. Leyla Hawk?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0396par0159	Why are you offended?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0394par0160	We're just saying, Mr. Metiner, there's nothing to take it personally.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0397par0161	Mr. Altay, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0396par0162	You've never been mentioned!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0394par0163	Congressman, you mean us?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0398par0164	Mr. President, I never mentioned their names.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0399par0165	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0400par0166	Are you a coupger or a February 28th?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0399par0167	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0401par0168	Say Mr. Metiner, Mr. President. Where he's sitting...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0399par0169	I'm talking to you, Mr. Altay. You're the one I'm dealing with right now.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0402par0170	Don't yell, why are you yelling?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0401par0171	What are you talking about? I'm talking to the president.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0402par0172	Why are you yelling? Why don't you guys talk some sense into him? Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0401par0173	I'm talking to the president.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0403par0174	Congressmans, I'm talking to Mr. Altay. Please don't interrupt. For God's sake...
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0401par0175	Do you have to take everything for granted?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0404par0176	What are you yelling about?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0401par0177	Do you have to take everything for granted?
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0404par0178	You're the mine!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0401par0179	Don't be a fucking miner!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0404par0180	You're so disrespectful!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0401par0181	You're such an ass for everything!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0405par0182	Ladies and gentlemen of the group, please block your friend.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0404par0183	You're the mines and you're the jerks!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0401par0185	You're a jerk, you animal!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0406par0187	Shame on you! You can't say "animal"!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0404par0188	You're the animal! You can't even be an animal! You can't even be an animal!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0401par0189	Son of a bitch, you're the one who soiled the place!
tbmm-2016-06-15sit07spe0407par0190	I'm gonna take a ten-minute break from the merger, and I'm gonna call a meeting of the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit08spe0407par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 102nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 383. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There have just been some words that none of us will agree to. I believe there are some who would like to take a stand. Here you go, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit08spe0408par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. In the speech of a friend of our group, I reacted from where I sat because no party's name was mentioned. The accuracy of my reaction, the error, is debatable because he said we should deal with the coupgers, the February 28th. There was no reason for a professional group to take it upon themselves. That's what I was reacting to. A discussion that began with the tone of this Assembly does not suit any of us. I'm ashamed of myself for the words I had to respond to because it was said. If he's ashamed himself, let's apologize to each other on behalf of the House and never have such disrespectful things happen again. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit08spe0409par0013	Thank you. Mr. Altay, would you like to say something? Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit08spe0410par0017	Mr. President, I probably said it wasn't from fasting yesterday, and now everyone's done their thing, God willing. We're meeting the law this time of night. Although there is a bill that we are strongly opposed to, we are calmly taking a study with respect to the blessed moon, using the means given by the Civil Code. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey also has unwritten rules. Of course, it's a ritual of public opinion, self-criticism, criticism, bullying, a ritual of parliament, which is going to happen, no hesitation. But as a group of vice presidents, I think our congressman is right in his own way, and I think he's right in saying his criticisms to our group in such a way that he's completed his speech, and so I stood up after him, asking your witness to raise my hand in a manner of speaking, and I made a motion to explain to him that it is not right that the other coups, February 28th and so on, which I did not approve of at all, should be associated with us on the ground, and so forth. I asked my congressman to explain whether he meant our party or ours. Our MP had come forward, probably not directly the institutional identity of CHP. Perhaps he would say so, but Mr. Metiner insisted that I not speak to the MP and me.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit08spe0409par0019	I'll turn it on.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit08spe0410par0020	...as if he was the only one against the coup in Turkey, and everyone here and everyone out here was a coupger, taunting my speech in their own way, and not Satatma, he molested me, Mr. President, he harassed me. You've seen it, and the whole House has seen it. I'm a human being. Mr. Metiner is a ritualist, and it's only natural for him to pick on his place, but he's brought this to the point of harassment. And now he says, "I've said a thing I'm ashamed of. Let him be ashamed. You don't say that to a bunch of vice presidents, you don't say that to anyone. And I was made of flesh and blood because of that which was said, and I answered with a word that was not proper. That's not true. These people look at this House and they're ashamed. Let's argue, we'll argue for hours, but no insults, fellas. We will criticize you, our reason for being is to criticize you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit08spe0409par0023	All right, let's give it another minute, plus time. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit08spe0410par0025	And you are here to defend the actions of your government. It's as simple as that. I'm always saying that the opposition is a little angry, it's not fit for power. You should be able to understand, be tolerant. This doesn't suit Parliament. This is a situation that makes me extremely sad. Look at our public reputation. I mean, one day these people are gonna say, "Damn it, let's not go to the box to pick them!" No way, it's wrong. Everyone has to carry out the task they've been given here in a logical manner. That's all there is to it. I couldn't describe it to him with the events before, but it's not true. Wherever it comes from, it's not pretty. I wish it would never happen again. This is the last time.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit08spe0409par0028	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, thank you for your maturity. He will now speak on behalf of Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit08spe0411par0035	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the Fifth Amendment of the Maarif Foundation Act. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I wish the Minister the highest success in his duties. Precious lawmakers, according to the bill, the Maarif Foundation is equipped with a vast area of activity, such as opening preschool education, elementary education, secondary education and higher education institutions, establishing facilities for common educational purposes, education centres and cultural centers, and establishing libraries, labs, arts and sports facilities that will be considered the default basis of educational facilities. In particular, it is not acceptable for pre-school education, primary education, secondary education and higher education institutions, which should be performed directly by the Ministry of National Education as public and broke services, to be carried out through a foundation that will act as a private company. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of National Education is further and further away from its public responsibilities every day. Private schools are the most obvious example. The number of private schools in Turkey totalled 4,200 in 2013 is now more than 8,000. The number of private schools in Istanbul alone has reached 3,000. In light of these figures, private schools in Turkey have increased by 100 per cent in just three years. We need to remind you that education is an inadmissible public right. As various studies in this area show that as monetary education practices become widespread, as private schooling increases, so does the majority of our people living below the poverty line. The increase can only be achieved by reducing food and health expenses. Dear lawmakers, the market-based education system deepens social inequality by targeting competition at all levels of life as customers of students and parents. Therefore, in Turkey, education services are especially organised by AKP governments according to market regulations. It should not be forgotten that the political preference for which the education service will be conducted is as important as the setting and implementation of educational policies. Dear lawmakers, the largest share of the education budget has been in our power. During the AKP, the investment share of the Ministry of National Education has regularly declined every year. The concrete meaning of this is that the state refuses to set aside a budget for building new schools or building existing schools structurally. But on the other hand, the incentives to the private sector have revealed a large number of schools operating in the most popular areas of the cities with commercial corporate logic. Private schools have been tried to become privileged and brand schools of the Ministry of National Education. The AKP governments have created the basis for the creation of schools in which parents can record their children, even within the same province and districts, let alone resolving inequalities between the regions. Dear MPs, one of the most fundamental principles of the Constitution is the principle of the social state. The social policy of education and education counts as the state's top paper and is tasked with providing all citizens with science-based, creative, peaceful, secular and democratic education. Again, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone has the right to education, education, and basic education should at least be without money. The United Nations Declaration of Children's Rights (L.A.) is a child's right to basic education at the level of education without money and mandatory education. Dear lawmakers, as we have seen, universal law norms have also brought obligations to states that education should be without money. In Turkey, it is the commercialisation of education, especially during the AKP administrations. The prevalence of private schools also reproduces opportunities inequality among students. It's an unfair, inequal approach when you have to study in good schools with money and have no money and you have to study in low-level public schools. In this context, I urge the government to produce policies at the point of promoting public, broke, and qualified education, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit08spe0412par0046	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-06-15sit09spe0412par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 102nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 383. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey, number 2263, and with the Government of the Sultanate of Brunei, that the Agreement on Economics, Trade and Technical Co-operation is in order. Commission? No. It's been postponed. The decision taken on Thursday (June 16, 2016) to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, is at 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
