tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, on December 10th in Beşiktas, and last Saturday in Kayseri, our soldiers and policemen fell to the ground. I honor our martyrs. Last night, before our pain cooled, Russian Ambassador Andrei Karlov died in a vicious, ugly, low-life assassination. My condolences to Russia and Turkey. Members of parliament, Turkey faces a major provocation. Turkey is under threat of terrorism, and terrorism is no longer just an internal problem. But we, who remember the spirit and consciousness of July 15th, will not come to this game. Anyone who loves his country, who feels that he belongs to this land, must stand against this game, leaving aside political interests, political ambitions. We'll take care of our country before we give up common sense. This country is ours, all of us. Dear lawmakers, despite threats, Turkey remains stubborn and continues to rise. In this context, the Eurasia Tunnel, which will connect Europe and Asia with the underground road tunnel, opens today. Our citizens are heavily in the parade area; Turkey is not afraid. I'd like to thank our country leader, our president, and everyone who's worked hard. Good luck with that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Diyarbakır MP Nimethullah Erdoğmuş, who wants to speak about the so-called civilian Friday prayer. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğ.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0002par0012	Mr. President, members of our House, I salute you all. I'd like to add to the part of my president's opening statement at the entrance to the tunnel, which is exactly the same as my own feelings, my thoughts. And the next part, maybe something a little more separate. Dear friends, we all live together in the same way as all of you know, the dizzying, out-of-the-way dynamics. When we pour a bucket of water into this fire, a handful of water together, unfortunately, there are burnouts and separate furnaces where the fire has fallen. In this process, we're more and more concerned about the explosion of bombs, the explosion of dollars, the explosion of assassinations, and so on. Our biggest concern is that this country is forced into civil war. As a party, we say this first, and we say it all the time: we mean that we are ready to carry out this responsibility, whatever responsibility, whatever the task, on which to prevent it. Dear friends, what I have promised you on Friday is a matter of Friday's prayer, and a few things I want to share with you about a case against me in which Mr. Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş also participated and I personally had him committed. It's Friday prayer we're doing. It is not a matter for man, nor for man, nor for man, that he should be true to his word, nor for him to be true to his heart. It is a prayer, it is sacred, and the Creator makes the decision. The fact that our Friday is supposed to be allegedly or in essence should never, ever be a subject of debate. What a coincidence this is that the prayers, the supplication, and the phrases spoken within that barrier are being brought in and turned into a case of terror propaganda, which I present to your followers. Dear friends, we are not strangers in this so-called word, so-called Kurdish problem, you use it, you bring it to the front of other definitions. It's normal, you argue about it, it's accepted, it's rejected, it's rejected, but it's obviously absurd, it's absurd to bring it in to describe the so-called civilian Friday prayer, and it's completely false and disrespectful to religion, against religion, against worship. See, during the Emevis period, you all know very well that there are so much pressure and pressure in mosques, especially Friday prayer, that we are all going to Friday prayer today, and we all put Friday at the point where the last line reads and descends from the minibar, and there's an idea of Friday, and there's a convention that goes on and goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Finally, dear friends, if we, in any responsibility to our party against this fire, about the country, about the future, about the concerns of the common future, about our party, instead of going to our building and getting the police to empty it, making calls and treating it like this... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say we sit down, talk, and do our part. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0003par0025	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğ. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Kayseri MP Çetin Arık, who wants to talk about the terrorist attack in Kayseri. Here you go, Mr. Arik.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0004par0029	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. First, my condolences to the Russian ambassador's family and to the Russian people. On December 17th, in our Kayseri, our eyeballs, lions, and legendary commandos were attacked in the mountains. 14 of our hero soldiers were killed in this attack, 56 of our soldiers were injured. I wish God's mercy on our fallen heroes, and my condolences on our veterans. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Dear lawmakers, the low terrorist organization, which is the subcontractor of the West, is the PKK and the PKK terror organization that has been silently ratifying their massacres. I curse once again the mute devils who cannot say, "The terror organization is here in front of our entire nation." Dear lawmakers, managing the state is about serious responsibility and responsibility and carrying out responsibility when it comes to it. We are responsible for the murders committed in our country by politicians when three Muslim youth were killed in the United States. When the public gives you the vote, you will provide our safety, our property safety. In their words, why did you not follow these people when the same elder was attacked by ISIS in France? Your intelligence services know how to say, "Doesn't work?" Well, in my beautiful country, there are 25 explosions in 18 months, hundreds of martyrs, leaves don't move. It's like the bomb that went off in France was the popcorn that exploded in Turkey. Those who are in charge of this work will make fun of the young seedlings, and you will be martyrs, if God wills. The ruling party won't take responsibility. We give martyrs, and the AKP says, "What does it have to do with anything?" We're killing 301 people in Soma. The AKP says there's nothing to do with it. Children are burning in dorms, don't make politics. They say, "We're building divided roads, bridges, what more do you want?" The AKP has been a subcontractor rather than a political party that's been running the country for 14 years. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, as Kayseri, as the Turkish nation, our pain and our hatred are great. However, some of the parties associated with AKP are trying to place the Republican People's Party at the goal of the Kayseri people, the hatred and hatred of our nation against terrorism. However, when Dolmabahçe's agreement stands on the ground, the MP sitting in AKP rows is not a PKK terrorist organization. It is as if he had been running the country like the Republican People's Party for 14 years, as if the Republican People's Party had been playing dirty games on our party, as if it were the Republican People's Party, who had led terrorist groups to plant tent courts on their feet and watched terrorist organizations stack bombs on cities, as if it had been the Republican People's Party. The unifying power of this country is to commemorate the Republican People's Party side by side with terrorist organizations, injustice, dishonor, dishonor; this mud does not infect us. (Applause from CHP rows) The AKP's effort is only to feed low terrorist organizations. Now, AKP executives must leave the sleep of ignorance. The AKP must establish the spirit of unity by learning from its former mistakes instead of trying to bring our party together with terrorism. By tearing apart the wreaths our president sent to the martyrs' funerals, attacking our party members, this spirit of unity cannot be built, nor can it be one heart against terror. As we pass through, what we need is the spirit of unity and unity, just as in Çanakkale, Sakarya, and July 15th. As we've said over and over again, we're prepared to give any support in the fight against this bloody terrorist organization, but unfortunately the ruling party isn't ready. With all this suffering, the AKP has started working today for the administration of one man in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. I salute our High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0005par0040	Thank you, Mr. Arik.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0006par0041	Say something to the people who went to the terrorist funeral! It's at your own party.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0004par0042	The PKK is not a terrorist organization. Tell those who say it is.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0006par0043	Tell him, tell the people who went to the terrorist funeral.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0004par0044	Look, it's your turn. The PKK is not a terrorist organization. You will tell those who say so.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0007par0045	Congressmans, we've just started working. A little common sense, please.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0008par0046	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0007par0047	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0008par0048	Mr. President used the expression that our party is like a subcontractor construction company. We deny it. The main opposition party, of course, can criticize. He came up with a painting that was so different, he used so hurtful statements about our party... but, despite that, it always comes out when they go to people and tell them the same thing. From that point on, I'd like to point out that we don't accept the allegations he made about our party.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0007par0049	Thank you, Mr. Mush. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Kayseri MP Sami Dedeoğlu, who asked for the same statement. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Dedeoglu has a very good work, and if the MPs show interest, I think they'll enjoy it. They introduced it to me. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0009par0055	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. I offer my condolences to the precious family of the Ankara ambassador and to the friendly Russian people, whom we lost last night in a treasonous assassination. Dear MPs, on Saturday (December 17th) on Saturday (December 17th) when we went to pray to all our martyrs in Beşiktas, as Kayseri districts and village associations, those who wanted to disturb the peace of our nation showed their ugly faces again in Kayseri. We've had a vicious and despicable terrorist attack. I wish God's mercy to the heroic sons of this land and to all our martyrs, to their families, to our nation, and to our veterans, who were killed in the attack. With this attack on our city of peace and stability, which has not been achieved by humanity, the traitors have intended to disrupt the peace and stability of our city and our entire country at first, but from the moment of the incident, our Kayseri and our entire country have shown once again that it can't reach the goals of low terrorists. We will not change the stability of this country, the peace, the brotherhood, no matter what you do. Dear lawmakers, as this nation has given the enemy the answer in the Battles of Salvation and Çanakkale in its past, let no one doubt that today its name, PKK, DAEŞ, no matter what, with the spirit of Salvation and Çanakkale, will give these traitors the same answer with the same spirit and understanding that our nation will give the same answer for our future. From the moment of the low terrorist attack, Kayseri, the martyrs and veterans, the official institutions of our province, the municipalities, the state and private hospitals, all our people, shared their homes, their businesses, their cars, their phones, their addresses via social media, as Mr. President said, by declaring a national mobilization, they gave their orders, opened their hearts and pressed their shouts as big as Mount Ercines. So, Kayseri, I want to thank our people once again for their sacrifice. The Union says Kayseri, the day of Turkey is the day of the Union, the day of Turkey, to traitors who have an eye for unity and complete determination in our country. Dear lawmakers, the more these traitors can't account for, the more they reach out to our police, our soldiers, this saintly nation takes care of its police, its soldiers, its soldiers, it's more tightly embraced, the more those traitors attack, the more they stick together. We've been on this land for a thousand years. We've seen all kinds of traitors for a thousand years, but today we've dealt with these traitors, and we've broken all their traps. The evil centers must know that today, as yesterday, as a nation, we will destroy all the games that have been played on us as one. Our state is fighting terror organizations in and abroad, an unprecedented battle in the world. Of course, we will be called to account for those who cause these sufferings. As a nation, it is our duty to be one voice, one heart, against these traitors. In the process, our greatest desire is to be alert and careful of traps and provocations. I also want to make it clear that the countries that embrace terrorist organizations have no say in democracy or law or human rights in this process. Dear MPs, I know it's a debt of gratitude to our Prime Minister, the President of the CHP, the President of the CHP, our ministers, the Chief of Staff, the Chief of Staff, all of our civil society, the members of the press, those who have called to share our pain, the people of Kayseri with their humble stances, the people of Kayseri, the people who have cursed terror all over our country, and most importantly, the martyr families whose pain we deeply feel deeply about. I salute our beloved nation and your representatives of the nation.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0010par0066	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Congressmans, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the lawmakers who have entered the system. I'm reading the names of the MPs I'm promising, Mr. Lightning, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Akin, Mr. Tagkın, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Bozkurt, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Ilgezdi, Mr. Aydemir, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Demir, Mr. All-Star, Mr. Division. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0011par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. My question will be to the Minister of Agriculture. Last week there was a natural disaster in Mersin. The majority of the greenhouses were destroyed because of the wind in Anamur, Bozyazı, Aydıncık, and Silifke. Banana greenhouses, tomato greenhouses, and strawberry greenhouses have been damaged. A total of $33 million in the district of Anamur alone, 4 million in the district of Bozyazı, 15 million in the district of Aydıncık, and a total of $67 million in the district of Silifke. We expect our Ministry of Agriculture to immediately transfer funds to the governorate of Mersin to address the victims, to help our farmers with the transfer, and not to be insensitive to the natural disaster in this region. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0012par0075	Thank you. Mr. Tezcan...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0013par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I condemn Saturday's attack on traitorous, low-life terror at Kayseri. I pray for God's mercy on our fallen soldiers, patience on their families, and immediate healing for our wounded. I curse the assassination of Mr. Andrei Karlov, Russian Ambassador to Ankara last night, and wish my condolences to the friendly Russian people. Let them know that if the PKK, the PYD, the DEA, the ball, they will not be able to stop the development of our country. Today, our dream project opens the Eurasia Tunnel. I thank the late President, our Prime Minister, our ministers, our engineers, our workers and all of Turkey. In addition, last week, the greenhouses of our farmers were sadly damaged because of a severe storm in the districts of Mersin, Aydıncık, Bozyazı and Silifke. I'd like to wish our farmers well from here. Our congressman friends, they visited our farmers. Mr. Lütfi, our Minister of Development, continues our efforts to assist our farmers in the presidency of Elvan. Our Prime Minister has also been briefed on this matter. Hopefully, the financial aid will be done. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0014par0083	Thank you. Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0015par0085	In Beşiktaş, our police and soldiers in Kayseri have become targets of treacherous terror. I wish God's mercy on our fallen brothers, my condolences on our nation, and an urgent healing for our wounded. All these vile attacks against our nation, our understanding of unity and unity and our social peace have been targeted. Terrorist organizations and those who use them don't stand idly by. They slaughtered the Russian Ambassador last night. This is actually a despicable attack on our country and our nation. My condolences to the family of the late Ambassador and to the Russian people. Turkey has been dragged into a terrorist environment. Our people are concerned that there will be an attack or an explosion at any moment. In a time when all our people's greatest expectations are peace and security, those who strive to abandon their primary duty and leave the country to one man's regime, let alone the love of the presidency; let your love be the republic entrusted to you, not the kingdom.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0016par0089	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0017par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, Russian Ambassador to Ankara Karlov was slaughtered in front of everyone. I condemn all kinds of terrors, terrorists, and those who use them as tongs. Let's put aside all conspiracy theories and political rhetoric. Who is this killer? Someone who's supposed to take care of his religion and his hatred. Do you now understand how this person, who is now 22 years old and is 8 years old when the AKP comes to power, grew up in an environment? The so-called religious and vindictive youth is tearing apart CHP wreaths today, shooting at our president, shooting our vice presidents and constantly resorting to violence. Since true religious people don't do that, all that remains is spiteful youth. Are you happy, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0018par0093	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0019par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. I hate that Russian Federation Ambassador Andrei Karlov has been brutally murdered, and I offer my condolences to the Russian people. Again, on Saturday, Kayseri curses the traitorous terror attack against our soldiers, and I wish our martyrs God's mercy and immediate healing to our veterans. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. In the spirit of a national mobilization, we will all fight with determination. Last week, storm natural disasters occurred in the districts of Mersin, Aydıncık, Bozyazı and Silifke. We went to our counties to visit our storm-torn countrymen, to see how great the disaster was. As a result of preliminary damage detection studies, a total of $61,898 000 in damage in a total of 4,539 and our ministries have begun their work. I salute the General Assembly, saying to my fellow citizens, who have been damaged by the storm, "Get well again."
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0020par0100	Thank you. Mr. Bozkurt...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0021par0102	Our country has become the domain of all known terrorist organizations around the world. I cherish our fallen martyrs and all our martyrs in the last two weeks. Finally, an ambassador was murdered, and I wish him my condolences. Mr. President, the COSGEB has provided the SMEs with a loan of up to 50,000 liras in three years without paying their first year. However, these loan applications, which began yesterday, will expire tomorrow, but should be registered in the COSGEB database. The information in the database of registered COBIs needs to be updated. The cognac shops are in serious trouble, the tradesmen are in trouble. Our tradesmen from all over Turkey are demanding that the deadline be extended by the end of the month. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0022par0105	Thank you. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0023par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. After Beşiktas, we were also hurt by terror in Kayseri. I pray for God's mercy to our martyrs, to heal our wounded quickly, and to our people my condolences. And I strongly condemn the attack on the Russian Federation Ambassador last night, and may he rest in peace. And my condolences to the Russian people. We're going through a period when the responsible must act on purpose. In this process, I have never been able to do this work, feeling responsible. No one has resigned. We wish there would be no more terror, no more attacks, but let the responsible know that the position of the resignation is also in their assessment of the situation. Also, in the process, there are those who want to terrorize the Republican People's Party, and I strongly condemn them. The Republican People's Party is a party founded by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, which advocates the unity of this country, its life, and exists for it. This kind of association with the Republican People's Party is a disgrace, and I'd like to point out from here.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0024par0112	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0025par0113	Mr. President, my condolences to the Russian people for the murder of the Russian Ambassador. In a real legal regime, a person can't even make a special law, while a person is offered a special regime change, beyond the specific Constitutional amendment. It's under the rule that there are no non-proposable substances to be changed. The country's unifying value is being destroyed by the presidency. One man who polarizes society, excludes differences, ignores them, wants to come to the top of our country as fascism. Your spiteful and religious work, which you want to create, unfortunately, has begun to yield its products, and with false news from your pool media, you have created a murderer from a young 22-year-old boy. On the basis of the draft, the president's election is at the beginning of the sentence. At the end of the sentence, those who have written ▪ the presidential election, lie to the people and write lies in the draft. The manuscript was modified, the old signatures were used...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0024par0115	Mr. Illgezdi...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0026par0116	Mr. President, I respectfully honor our soldiers who were killed last Saturday in Kayseri's vile terrorist attack and Russian Ambassador Karlov, who was killed yesterday in Ankara. The decision on the Ethhem Yellowsum case, which was shot to death in the travel incidents, was announced yesterday. One thousand and two hundred and ninety-seven days after he was shot, he was sentenced to one year, four months, and twenty days in prison. The court has reduced this sentence to a fine of $10,100, so the price of a life, a young plant, has been transferred to court records at $10,000. On the charge of insulting the family of Sarısuluk, who had been charged with the complaint of the accused who shot Ethem (Ethhem) during the trial, was demanded for ten years in prison. The judgment that sought ten years for reproach on the family of Sarısülq rewarded the man who killed Ethem by the decree that was made yesterday. In these days, justice has suffered another severe injury, when trust in the judiciary has fallen to 3 percent. But a reality must be known that justice is dead, Ethem Sardus is alive.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0024par0118	Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0027par0119	Mr. President, thank you very much. Sir, yesterday we surrendered a martyr to his permanent resting place in Erzurum. Kayseri was a martyr in Arif Tuğ. There was a cold minus 40 degrees [40 degrees] -- of course it was a disaster -- it was very cold -- but thanks to the people of our martyrship. I cherish all our martyrs in Arif Tug. I take a note: Today is a very special day, the opening day of a Shahika investment, the Eurasia Tunnel. I wish the tunnel to bring blessings to our nation, to pay tribute to those who have done so.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0028par0122	Mr. Dogan...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0029par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Alevi Bektashi Federation Director, Alevi Cultural Associations Sultangazi Branch Pir Sultan Abdal Cemevi President Zeynel Odababaş has been in custody for ten days. I want this life to be set free by the end of the unjust and unlawful act that has been built on Zaynel Odabaş.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0028par0125	Thank you. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0030par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Wild garbage fields burned several times last summer in Bodrum district of Mugla, and a great fire broke out on the peninsula. I'm afraid the trees and living creatures around the garbage fields have been burned. Although the Metropolitan Municipality has applied several times to the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs to restore, greenen and regulate it, still no response has been received. Is this Ministry waiting for his peninsula to burn down? My second question: Why were the Facebook accounts and the tweets of Mevlüt Mert Altıntaş, who murdered the Russian Ambassador, closed? Is it true that this person participated twice in Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's trip abroad? And my third question is, who is this person's starting reference? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0031par0132	Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0032par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask God's mercy for our martyrs who were slain in Kayseri. Mr. President, this is the 38th anniversary of the Maras massacre where 111 of our citizens died. I honor all our citizens who once again lost their lives. The Maraş massacre was a week-long massacre in front of the state from December 19th to December 26, 1978. I'm asking the government who's been in power for 14 years: who are the planners, the killers, the perpetrators of the Maras massacre, and what's in the public archives about it. In Maraş, thousands of people have died, the homes, the workplaces, the lives of our citizens, which the state has to protect, especially their lives. Is the victimization of our citizens to be met by the state? Will you apologize on behalf of the government to the Alekis who are still living in the wake of the events that have caused social trauma? You don't think the government has any interest in preventing this social event...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0033par0138	Mr. Star...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0034par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. I resent the attack on the Russian Ambassador last night. This attacker, from what I've learned from the press, was born in Aydın. Enlightenment, you know, is famous for its effeminates. As the people of the Enlightenment, we live in unity without language, religion, race, sectarianism -- one million people. As the Lightmen, as all the people of Aydın, we offer our condolences to the Russian people and to the Russian people. We, the Enlightenees, are uncomfortable with the way the Enlightenment is remembered. We've been serving the Russian people for years, both as a city of tourism and as a city of effeminates. I blame this case with hate again. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0035par0142	Thank you. Mr. Division...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0036par0144	Mr. President, as it is known, the right to wear down journalists working in the press department in Turkey has been terminated in 2008. In particular, local journalists have become dependent on bread because media organizations are having a difficult time. The voices of journalists and media organizations who respect the public's right to be informed have to be heard. The rights of pensioned journalists must be restored, the Press Advertisement Agency has to be reviewed in the newspaper, the harsh conditions for its establishments, the final law-ordered decrees, especially in the newspapers closed in Adana, but the return of yellow press cards to journalists who have no sins, no charges, no charges, no calls to testimony, should be provided to the local newspaper owners who are registered to the Press Agency to be given loans to encourage the owners of the legal framework. Otherwise, in the press world, new recruits will be added to the unemployed army, hard-to-recovery wounds will be inflicted.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0035par0145	Congressmans, I'm going to make a pledge to the members of the group who have requested a word. Mr. Master, come in. You have two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0037par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. We strongly condemn the attack on the Russian Federation's Ambassador to Ankara, Mr. Karlov. And my condolences to his family and to the Russian people. This attack is not supposed to harm Turkish-Russian relations. The two countries' executives are pleased to see this attack as an attack on the two countries' relations. The fact that the killer was a cop, the content of his conversation during the incident, is likely to result in our country's weakened hand in Middle Eastern policy. The process must continue in a calm and rational manner. In order to force Turkey, there may be other similar assassinations, which must be taken by the state in order to avoid them. And on Saturday, I condemn the traitorous attack on our unarmed soldiers, who went on leave in Kayseri. Our 44 martyrs who lost their lives in the attack in Beşiktas are still very recent, while 14 of us have been martyred in Kayseri, 55 of whom have been injured. I pray for God's mercy on our martyrs, my condolences on our families and our nation, and for our wounded soldiers. In our president-in-chief's statement: From now on, the fight against terrorism must be carried out with the spirit and sacrifice of national solidarity, led by all the resources and forces of the state. The antidote to terrorism is to strengthen the state of national unity and embrace. The second step of political and ideological differences must be made, the end of artificial disputes immediately; the Turkish nation must defend its common destiny, historical heritage and trusts to the soul. It's the state's historical duty to keep them off their backs, no matter who he is, from his politician to his artist, who supports terrorism, who runs an open or secret struggle for the growth and rooting of terror. In Kayseri, in addition to the decryption of the original perpetrators of the attack on all of us, the one who allowed our troops to be unconceived...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0038par0154	Please complete it, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0037par0155	...as to those responsible for failing to take the necessary security measures in order, there must also be legal and administrative procedures. Using the gap of intelligence and security weaknesses, it is clear that the bombers must be accounted for by those related to this reputation. To divide Turkey, to turn the nation against each other, no vile and petty desire will be able to do so. We need unity and unity more than ever. Even if we're burned inside, we can't call the appeal of provocations okay. We can't see the arson of the buildings right and reasonable. In this sense, I invite our people to be discreet and to avoid matters that will disrupt the spirit of unity, unity, unity, and our union. In silence, I want to say that we can go through the issues as the state and nation of the Republic of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0039par0159	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0040par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, we strongly condemn the attack on soldiers who went on leave in Kayseri, and we offer our condolences to their relatives. We'd like to take this opportunity, and we'd like to take another look at our party, and then we'd like to say to all our party members that we've condemned arson and any kind of attack on our city and county buildings. Yesterday, the death of Russian Ambassador Andrei Karlov, his murder was a deep, sad event for the country. We offer our condolences to his relatives and to the Russian people. However, here, it is past the time to create cocktail organizations and make halibuts, because the way all foreign media reported it, the Turkish police killed the Russian Messenger. The incident contains many questions, and the answers to these questions need to be explained immediately. Because after the coup attempt on July 15th, thousands of police were relieved of duty, what was the result of the investigation into the alleged two-day leave of the Goldenstones during July 15th? Why is he still on duty? After 2014, the question is whether he could have been the triggerman of organized Nusras who were recruited to become a police force for the purpose of becoming a member of the AKP. All these questions, really, all of Turkey and not just Turkey, are actually waiting to be illuminated by the world.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0041par0167	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0040par0168	Therefore, in order for our country to no longer be pregnant with new massacres, such as operations under the name of the return-to-life operation, such as the Maras massacres that came the anniversary, and not become a country open to new assassinations, in constant chaos, we should all put our hands under stone and really come together as politicians to get our country out of this violence, and talk to all the people. Thank you, General Assembly, and I salute you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0041par0170	Thank you. And I wish you the best of your new assignment, by the way.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0040par0172	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0041par0173	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0042par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Yesterday in Turkey, Russian Ambassador Andrey Karlov died due to a terrorist attack that was not very familiar, not too common, not in Turkey, but also in the world. First of all, we, the Republican People's Party, the Grand National Assembly Group of Turkey, share the pain, sadness, grief of the Russian people, and ask for God's mercy on the deceased. The incident is not in an acceptable and debatable position in the general concept. We are sad for Turkey and sorry for the lost Ambassador. It's also a fact that our international reputation has suffered serious damage. In Turkey, where we live in a painting like this, where 79 million other people have been exposed, where terrorist organizations have become open targets, it is no doubt that Turkey's Grand National Assembly's primary job is to seize the situation on this terrorism issue. In a moment, I'm going to mention the group proposal, but on this occasion, as a man who buried two of my young citizens in Istanbul and Sinop. We think that Turkey is not destined to live with this terror, and we think that all political parties that form the Turkish Parliament and the Turkish Grand National Assembly...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0043par0178	Complete, please, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0042par0179	...investigating the president to take responsibility for the mission in common sense. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0043par0181	Thank you. Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0044par0183	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to say that in the wake of my words, we'd like to ask God's mercy to our martyrs in the wake of a terrorist attack on our soldiers on Sunday's market leave, and that we condemn this attack with hatred. It was done earlier in Istanbul, about a week ago. Our nation, our state, is powerful, capable to overcome them, and these attacks against our nation will not keep Turkey out of its way. Sooner or later, these terrorist organizations, those behind them, their supporters, will be destroyed. I would like to say that we also condemned yesterday's attack on the Russian Ambassador as an AK PARTY. This attack was committed not only to the Russian Ambassador, but to friendly relations between Turkey and Russia, to the brotherhood between the two peoples. This attack on the purpose of damaging Turkish-Russian relations will not achieve its goal. Because both Russia and Turkey are aware of this dirty game. Russia and Turkey will further boost co-operation at the point of counterterrorism. In order to clarify the attack, our government has mobilized all its resources. Such attacks on peace and unity in Turkey are part of a dirty game that dark altars want to bring into play. We, the people and the government, are aware of this dirty game, and we will not allow it. Turkey is a great and powerful country, capable of overcoming any threat. Investigations on the attack continue. As a result of the investigation...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0045par0188	Please complete, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0044par0189	Investigations on the attack, investigations are ongoing. As a result, the terrorist organization that did this, whoever's behind this, I'm saying it's going to be lit up. Again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit01spe0045par0191	Thank you, Mr. Mush. We're going on the agenda and I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger. I'd like to invite the members of the group to a meeting.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0045par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: [[x]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Act No. 2644 and Kadastro No. 3402, the deed given by the deed or by the acts of the cadastro, or by the sale of real persons and private legal persons in front of the deed of Article 1023, under the guarantee of Article 1023 of the Turkish Civil Law. People have been victimised by the forest cadastro, which was later made according to Law 6831, on the property of the property of the property, on the property of the property, on the property of the property, and on the property of the property of the property, which has been cancelled without paying the price. In violation of the Kadastro Law and the Civil Law, we would like to ask that Parliament investigate and investigate the issues of property-captors who have been seized in violation of the rights of property and the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution be opened and requested that the Constitution be conducted under the provisions of Articles 98 and TBMM Charter 104 and 105. [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sivas]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Paddles]] 6) Haci Bayram Türkoğlu [[Hatay]] 7) Mustafa Şükrü Nazlı [[Kütahya]] 8) Mehmet Akif Yılmaz [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 10) Muhammad Mufit Aydın [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Malatya]] [[Yozgat]] [[İstanbul]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Tripoli]] [[Zonguldak]] 19) Ayşe Sula Köseoğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Kütahya]] [[Hatay]] [[Erzurum]] [[Şanlıurfa]] 24) Ahmet Sami Ceylan [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] 25) Emine Yavuz Filter [[Scholarship]] [[Sivas]] [[Edirne]] [[Sinop]] [[Kayseri]] 30) Ismail Emrah Karayel [[Kayseri]] [[Dull]] [[Fractured]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Manisa]] [[Hatay]] [[Dull]] [[Bolu]] The right of ownership has been guaranteed by internal law and international law, and it has been considered against the law throughout history to remove a person's property without paying for it. 1) Property rights on the 35th and 46/1st articles of the Constitution: "Everyone has rights to property and inheritance."The state and the public are authorized to adopt and establish administrative altitudes on the state and its legal people, provided they pay their real rewards in advance when it is necessary for public benefit." It's called. 2) The right to property under Turkish Civil Law: Article 683: "Whoever owns something has the authority to use, benefit, and save anything within the limits of the rule of law." It's called. 3) Property rights in international law: Property rights are considered a basic human right in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. The European Convention on Human Rights added no.1 to the European Convention on Human Rights. "Every real and legal person has the right to demand respect for property and property immunity." It's called. Owner of property has the ability to save private property in accordance with the law, as stated in our Constitution, international agreements, and Turkish Civil Law. The immovable property is won by "conservative." The registration is the registration of the property right to the property register. In Article 1025 of the Civil Code, if the third person who wins the move by corrupt registration is well-meaning, his goodwill is protected. In order for the same rights as property and property to be asserted against everyone, these rights must be known by everyone. "The title of the deed is held to show the rights on the movers." The State is responsible for all the damage caused by the holding of the deed. In light of the following principles, the deeds held under the Civil Law guarantee property owners. It's a proprietary principle, The principle of clarity, The principle of the state's responsibility, It's the same principle, The principle of loyalty to cause, The principle of demand, The principle of trust. Completed cadastro studies are declared in accordance with Article 11/1 of the Kadastro Act, where the law states for 30 days. The cadastro reports that were confirmed after the ad are registered in the deed. After ten years since the 12/3 clause of the Kadastro Law was ratified, there can be no appeal and no prosecution on the basis of legal reasons before the cadastro. These ads and announcements, and the statute of limitations, are linked to the real people, as well as to the public legal authorities, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. As a result of the work of the forest cadastros after the debauching period predicted in the Cadastro Law, the restrictions on private property as a forest and the cancellation of the deed have resulted in rights victims of those with good intentions. As a result, the ads issued under the Code of Kadastro 3402, the announcements are personally delivered to real persons concerned, public and private legal persons, and the deniability of these laws also connects with the public (Orman General Directorate etc.) and private legal persons, as well as the actual persons. In accordance with the principles laid down in the Constitution, international contract and civil law, which guarantee the rights of good people, I demand and demand the establishment of the Parliament's research commission under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution to protect and extradite the rights of property holders and to extradite the rights that have been cancelled. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The development of technology can bring practical benefits in human life, but it can also cause alternative costs. The development of motor vehicles is an example. The development of motor vehicles is a great contribution and ease to human life. The increase in the number of motor vehicles also means increased injuries, deaths, and financial losses caused by accidents and accidents in this area. A man is forced to live on foot and car traffic until he dies of birth. There's no other area where there's a similar common situation. Traffic accidents in our country and the death and injury rates in these accidents are the kind of things that cause the issue to be described as terrorism. Hundreds of thousands of our citizens are injured and thousands have died every year in a traffic accident. About 1,200,000 traffic accidents occurred on the country's road network in 2014. 1 million, 30, 498 of these accidents were financially damaged, 168, 512 were fatal and injured traffic accidents. 3,524 people were killed in traffic accidents, while 285,59 people were injured. These numbers are expected to increase in 2015. When traffic accidents were such an important issue, international work was also done. As a result of data obtained from Member States and statistics, the United Nations has heard the need to take measures in the area of road safety and environment, and has prepared action plans. In doing so, he appointed the World Health Organization and demanded that all member states act on the level of civil society, both at state level and at the level of NGOs. The Moscow Declaration, which aims to reduce the deaths of traffic accidents by 50 per cent, was adopted at a meeting attended by the Interior Ministry in 2009. The decision has been made according to the meeting, including between 2011 and 20 years, and has been decided to follow the top level to implement the Highway Traffic Safety Ten Year Action Plan. The Prime Minister's General Assembly was published in the Official Gazette on July 31, 2012. The most important thing in this action plan is to change the provisions of the Road Traffic Law that do not comply with the norms of the European Union. In this regard, the Law on Traffic Law, which has been drafted by relevant institutions, has been under way for three years. According to the World Health Organization's 2009 calculations, in 2020, high-income countries are expected to reduce deaths in traffic accidents by 27 per cent and to increase 83 per cent in low and low-income countries, including Turkey. In other words, there is a need for immediate study of the measures needed to be taken. It also requires a certain level of consciousness to reduce road infrastructure, vehicles, rapid and unplanned urbanization, and traffic accidents, even for reasons caused by driving mistakes. In this regard, a great task falls to the political authorities. The solution to transportation and traffic problems and preventing traffic accidents are far too extensive to be imposed solely on rules and officials. Everyone in this area, especially governments, private institutions, NGOs, family and individual, must take responsibility and take part in certain tasks. In this context, we honor the opening of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution under Articles 104 and 105, under the grounds of investigation of the causes of traffic accidents, the parties of the issue, NGOs, experts and academics working internationally, to determine solution proposals for them. [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Burdur]] [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] 6) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] 9) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] 10) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Denizli]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It was founded in 1987. The privatisation agency states that the cost to the state is between $300 and $360 million. As a result of the tender on 5 January 1998, the Sivas Joint Initiative Group (SIVIAT A.Ş.) It was sold at $9,699,000 -- on the condition of 7 installments in 7 years. Although another group has bid $3.3m higher, the state has been damaged under the name of social sales. INTERVIEW INTERVIEW. Only 173 workers were employed, despite a guarantee that they would employ 500 employees without interruption for three years in the sales contract. INTERVIEW INTERVIEW.The President of the Privatisation Administration Kentbank's SIVAT A.C., on the condition that he pays only $1 million and does not fall below 50 per cent of the $20 million investment and production capacity in the contract. He cashed in his $6,776k letter of collateral in his favor. Kentbank then issued a foreclosure order and put the factory on sale in July 2000. After TMSF's seizure of Kentbank, the factory relocated to TMSF. INTERVIEW INTERVIEW. President Selahattin Rustemoglu has collected the shares over his head over time, becoming the owner of 97 per cent of the factory, and signed protocols with TMSF (TMSF) to pay $7m in first installments by the end of 2004 and to halt the follow-up. He then signed a sales agreement with Erol for $12 million, and the TMSF approved the sale. Erol bought the factory a day later, paying TMSF $2,390,000 and $6,390,000 in installments by October 14, 2004. Istanbul 12. In the 2006/313 trial of the High Criminal Court, the court ruled that the trusteeship of the administration be lifted by the 20/10/2008 date and 15 interim decision, and was appointed to be a three-person audit trustee based on the 09/01/2009 date and 61 work decision. As of today, the trustee is still in custody. What is expected of social privatisation has not been achieved, and our government and our nation have been harmed by trillions. AT THE END of this process, SIDEMIR'S failure to manage well caused irreparable damage to the Sivas economy and irreparable population loss. As of December 1, 2015, employees have been terminated and locked on SIDEMIR's door. They were also victimised by failing to pay legal fees, such as their average five-month salary, severance pay, notices and grants. It is also known that even though workers have been renegotiated with the union by the employer, there will be no healthy functioning, such as past repetitions. As of today, the collection of SIDEMIR's debt over $630m in debt to the state and the removal of its victims, the research of the damage caused by our country and Sivas socially and economically, the Sivas Iron Steel Factory workers who have been shut down, and if necessary, by the Law on Amme Agreement 6183, we offer to investigate the issues of the Constitution's 98th and the 104th and 105th Articles of our Central Charter, in order to be handled by the state. [[Sivas]] [[Denizli]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskishehii]] 9) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] 10) Ahmet Tuncay Özkan [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 14) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 17) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Janitor]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The summary of the motion has been read because it is more than 500 words, but the full text of the motion will be published in Tutorak Magazine. Members of parliament, the motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 20/12/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On December 20, 2016, İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioğlu, Deputy Chair of the İstanbul Group, was offered 3325 rows of proposals issued by the General Assembly, which would then be read on 20/12/2016 Tuesday, following the bomb attack on Kayseri (December 17, 2016) and on the same day, to investigate those involved in the heavy attacks against our party buildings and employees and to begin the required legal process. People's Democratic Party will speak first in favour of the group's proposal, İğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0046par0223	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, as you know, there have been hundreds, unfortunately, ugly and racist attacks on our party agencies these past few days. I hope the research proposal we've submitted within this scope will be accepted by the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, our country is going through a difficult time. What's really going on in this country? Who runs this country? Over 20 major bombings have been carried out in the last year. The last time, yesterday, the Russian Ambassador was assassinated by an assassin, a police officer from the Home Secretary's police department, and this police officer was recruited after December 17th-25th. Now, ever since December 17th and 25th, the government and the ruling Party of Fetullah Gülen claimed that the Congregation had created a parallel structure, but this police were recruited after December 17th and 25th and carried out an assassination against the Russian Ambassador. With such serious events taking place, hundreds of our people have lost their lives in the last year, while the government and the Home Secretary in particular have no awareness of any political responsibility, such as the white spoon of milk, or any political responsibility that they may not accept, through just the word of the eunuchs, through the other, targeting the opposition sections, especially our party, to make speeches or messages. In a developed democratic country, for example, in the Scandinavian countries, if a civilian was killed in violation of the law, the Home Secretary would resign without even an hour's wait, but the country is turned into a pool of blood; attacks every day, death every day, city destruction every day, tears of mothers every day, but the government still develops promises and rhetorics as if it were still an opposition party, as if it were still an opposition party. Dear friends, in this context, of course, some racist, skull-heads have to go into some kind of action by taking responsibility for themselves. Look, our Kayseri county building has been burned down in the last two days, and a police officer and fire engine from the Biazihi Kayseri Municipality is assisting our Kayseri county building to raise the flag of a political party. In Yalova, our party building was surrounded and burned, and our party managers, including a 7-year-old, were saved from a very important lynching. Our districts of Bayrampaşa, Üskudar, Bağcılar were attacked in İstanbul. Our Eagle County Agency has been looted, and official documents have been filed, and our executives and members have been exposed on social media. Again, our districts of Beşiktaş, Pendik, Ataşehir, Şüsli, Ümraniye were attacked. Our districts of İzmir Bornova and Buca -- short-lived -- are being taken into custody -- two of our party managers -- who are trying to prevent the attack and burning of our building -- Koğuren, Eskişehir and Ankara -- including our headquarters. Dear friends, here's a person who says something contrary to the AKP's power, who can be detected and taken into custody within an hour on social media... so many attacks, organized at the same time, and all of our county and county agencies, for some reason this attack is not seen by the ruling party or by the government, the defendants cannot be identified, there is no investigation into the defendants. This is clearly a clear position of the ruling party, the government and the Minister of Interior, aimed at demonizing, lynching, the 3rd largest party in Turkey, the People's Democratic Party. Dear friends, the statement of the People's Democratic Party is clear. In our country, we advocate peace, democracy, and all differences, in separate beliefs, the common paradigm of life for all of our people of different ethnic origins, and we believe that all of our country's problems will only be solved through dialogue, through negotiation, we fight for it. This statement -- especially the ruling party -- will have nothing to do with war, conflict language, non-existence, different beliefs, and ethnic ties -- that alters them, does not recognise their rights and laws, but will only benefit our country from the vortex of war, but from dissolution among our peoples, and from bringing our country into civil war with this expression. Dear friends, these attacks are not random; these attacks are a continuation of the power lynching attempt on our party following June 7th. Despite the law of the Constitutional Court, which is Turkey's third largest party, peace and democracy, the common will of our people, the co-captains of the party, and 10 MPs of our people, despite the drinking of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court's court's ruling that it is unlawful to deny the Constitutional Court, not to rule out the Constitutional Court, not to mention the Constitutional Court, not to have all political parties, not to have any members of our party in the past, despite the decision that binds all political parties, all state institutions and institutions and everyone. Come on, you've arrested him, it's easy, AKP, it's always a matter of judgment, we don't interfere. Well, arrest is a matter of judgment, you don't interfere. Come on, we get that, but the conditions in prison are not a judgment, it's an administrative decision. It depends on the General Directorate of Prisons and Prisons and the Minister of Justice of the General Directorate of Prisons and Inquisitorships. The isolation policy you have imposed on our MPs in prison is directly your decision, not the decision of the court. This decision, these applications, keeping them in one ward, as lawmakers, is made entirely by your direct and decision to go and take away the right to talk to our friends, to negotiate with their relatives, to negotiate with their lawyers, or to seize all their talks on the legal ground. This has nothing to do with the judiciary, this is an administrative decision, this is a decision to exact revenge, revenge, and you've made this decision since June 7th. Dear friends, this mentality, this mind, would take this country to disaster, putting a dagger between our peoples, between our emotions, our lives, equal life, and interconnection. That understanding is a disaster. One last warning from this mentality... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we say to give up this policy of yours. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0047par0236	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. The People's Democratic Party will speak first against the group's proposal, Mr. Taner Yıldız of Kayseri. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0048par0240	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I'd like to start by respectfully greeting your delegation. First of all, I remember with mercy and gratitude all our brothers and sisters who were killed in both Kayseri and Beşiktas last week because of the treacherous and foul attack on Beşiktas. In the meantime, I would like for those who have been injured to receive an urgent cure from the Lord of God. Turkey also faced different sufferings throughout its history at different times. He's always resisted, always opposed, those who tried to stop his unity, development, and growth. In Turkey, Parliament is the main roof of politics, its presence and its will, and for the unity and unity of Turkey's parties here, politics will be held if they want to put politics first. Many opportunities have also been offered for HDP. Today everyone has to put their hats in front of you and question them. In all of this structure where you take your name, where you've made your statement -- which is one Turkish nation in Turkey, our people are one, and you've separated them -- you have to look at how much you've exploited and how much you haven't done with them. Let me put it bluntly, dear friends: For one thing, we can't justify and rationalize that any political party, HDP, is being looted or provoked in some way, but at this point, we need to review the party's attitude. In connection with the Beşiktaş attack last week, the groups all signed a statement together. He was publishing a very clear message and said: "Why don't we sign that declaration... that we feel the contribution of one heart... to the unity of Turkey? So the citizen understands this differently, the citizen watches here, and he watches the parties he votes for, and they tell us everywhere we go, that HDP has no idea where we're going, where we're going, where we're going, where we're going, where our Kurdish brothers today can't figure out how to turn votes into moats, how to bond. So, dear friends, look, we'll know our responsibility. I've just spoken to the Mayor of the Metropolitan once again. At the time of the attack that day, all our ministers, our congressman friends, our governor, our chief of police, the entire state, were there together. The municipality did not go to remove the HDP party sign, but went to put out the fire created by the provocateurs. It's in the images, in various provinces today, I'm telling you once again about the attack on the HDP building in the cities where it's wanted to be provoked -- we don't think it's reasonable. But about that, I'm reading again in the report: "There are two people on the roof of the Ümraniye district building, the police who go to take him down fall from the eighth floor and become martyrs. One of the people on the roof is Ramazan Mustafa Yaylacı. This person, DHKP-C, is in the revolutionary formation of DEV-YOL. Now, what am I supposed to get out of here? We need to look at the identity of the provocative workers there, the people who created the provocation. Our Ministry of Interior has made every attempt to do so, and our Mayor, our Chief of Police, our Governor and Kayseri have made it clear to the provocation that he is in the face of such open construction as both the state and the nation. We say on every platform that common sense needs to be dealt with. We are united and united in this Turkey with our 78-79 million. I have to tell you once again that trying to draw this to different points is definitely about provocation. Let politics be the word, but let Turkey be the Grand National Assembly. The structure of willpower to govern this country is formed in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. But let's not forget there's been a very interesting event called July 15 that's going to be talked about a lot in the coming generations. July 15th is an important title, not only in the history of politics but also in the history of Turkey, with all terrorist organizations holding bilateral accounting, with political identity, with respect to NGOs, with respect to bank structures, with whom double accounting has to be reviewed. So, it's not just in Turkey's political history, it's in Turkey's political history, it's in Turkey. In particular, yesterday -- when I worked with him for a long time -- we will all watch different developments in Russia's brutal killing of the ambassador to Turkey, the massacre of the ambassador to Turkey. Dear friends, this country is all ours. In particular, I have a recommendation to the HDP: You will either change the perception or change the truth about the provocation of HDP buildings in this country, but you must change one or the other. If you are sincere about this, you need to be able to make this statement about PKK being a terrorist organization, and you need to be able to say it all over the place. When we attend the martyr funerals, you must feel the same pain that we feel from our heart, and you must be expressing it, in a way that our citizen can feel the same pain. So you have to change something. I'm saying this again, for Turkey's unity, unity, and work together under this roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. For example, on Saturday, a flag for a mile... Hopefully, it'll be 1 4 o'clock in Kayseri. There'll be a walk at 00. Here, all parties -- they feel the same way -- have to be able to get under this very easily. On that day, we had an MP friend from the MP, a member of the CHP, and in the same way, our AK PARTI MP friends came in arm in arm and gave us a picture together in a way in the face of terrorism. So, I have to say once again that the structure that should have carried the sensitivity of this place on top of it is very clear to our country that it is the HDP.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0049par0250	So it's our fault?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0048par0251	At the funeral of the martyr, we had two martyrs at our brother Yasin's martyr's funeral from Beşiktas. He sent the CHP wreath to the martyr's funeral. We're not a fan of the wreath -- our congressman friend just told us -- definitely disintegrating it, destroying it there. I asked him, "Who did this?" It was the uncle's son who did it, they said. After that, the CHP brings a second wreath. Guys, we need to see what's out there. Look, our friend Yasin, our martyr, our dear brother whose family is in our care... I went to visit his family on Sunday, and again, with all our congressman friends. He tells of a dream he had six months ago: a large mosque wrapped in two funeral flags in the courtyard of the mosque. It's not like he's seen today before, he's describing it the same way. He says: "Who are these people?" They say: "Ya, don't you know them?" You're lying here. He says, "How come? I'm alive." Her sister told me that. He says: "No, you are the one lying here, you have come two martyrs, and these will be removed from us." And he does not tell his family, he says to his friend: "If I am a martyr, I entrust it to you, and you will tell me after that. Friends, it is necessary for everyone to express the same pain and express it to the people who have longed for your blood, your life, your whole being in this country. With all these feelings and thoughts, I salute your delegation with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0050par0256	Thank you, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0051par0257	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0050par0258	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0051par0259	Now, Your Honor, the speaker has made it clear that we have not signed our party's name from the way we've been used to signing the statement until we've either changed perception or ourselves. According to the Civil Charter 69...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0050par0260	Actually, he offered his reviews, but here, I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0051par0261	Well, from now on, let's ask them when we get the name of our party. He criticised the way our party got its name, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0050par0262	Okay.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0051par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, each party is set up originally, and parties are organised differently because they think differently, they organise differently, they have different ideas of society and country. If we were thinking as you say here, we wouldn't be organized separately, we'd be political at your party. That's what multiparty lives are for. Second thing: Now, let's cross the HDP, Mr. Star. Come on, ask the other two parties who signed the manifesto, if it's a joint memo, did they say a word to it? We have prepared a declaration, come and sign it. Is this notary? For God's sake, isn't that disrespectful to people's will? We have our words, our minds, our minds, our minds, our minds. You come up with a blank sheet of paper, and you say, "Let's put our feelings, our thoughts, and our social sensibilities together, and we'll talk from the top." But, there's nothing; we've prepared a statement, come and sign it. Besides, if it's about sensitivities and expressing the feelings of society and translating it, there's nothing different about our report than yours. But we do not do anything over the pre-approved declarations, which we have made clear. That doesn't mean we can't condemn it or anything. One other thing: let's talk about something that you're raising so much, and look, it was only 13 or 14 hours ago yesterday. Yeah, it's like a militant from Peshawar killed the Russian ambassador, as if he was killed by a militant from Rakka. For God's sake, two years ago, he went through the treatment of a police school that was under your administration. Can't we ever question him? I mean, how do security forces in this country grow up with, with what sense of education, and how do they do it? For him, we need a country reality where the security forces have an equal distance from the parties. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What if it's not?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0052par0271	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0051par0272	I'm being very clear, the police have lost their neutrality, and look, they've reached a point where they can kill an ambassador. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0053par0275	That's what you can say about all the provocation, bravo.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0054par0276	Where do you connect what a terrorist did?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0055par0277	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0056par0278	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0055par0279	Mr. President, Mr. Taner Star, in his speech brought up the wreath crisis at a funeral in Kayseri, almost as if -- perception -- reflected the provocation and abuse of these funerals both to the General Assembly and to the public as if it were a very common business. Plus, I'm going after this wreath thing...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0057par0281	I'm saying I didn't find it right.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0055par0282	...... to make the martyrs feel the same pain.... as if only the AKP people are sad, others are happy, their perceptions are happy, even if they're not told they don't care. And that's a very obvious tease. I demand word.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0058par0283	Here you go. Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0055par0285	Mr. Star, you've been a member of the government for a long time. I don't think you're right for this conversation. I said, "God damn it, if there's a variety of times in this Parliament who hopes for politics through hatred, blood, terror." It's no one's business to question the patriotism of people and political parties, the sensitivity of our dead losses, but the attack on the president of the Republican People's Party's wreath in Kayseri, as it were, an innocent reflex within the sentimentality of the moment...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0059par0287	No, no, no.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0055par0288	...that made me wonder what you said.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0059par0289	I made that clear.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0055par0290	Mr. Secretary, in this country -- I was going to say it a little later -- but at the martyr's funerals, those who did this move, were the ones who betrayed that martyr's sacred cause the greatest. Likewise, so are those who make this move. [[Applause from CHP rows]] God damn it, whoever's abusing these martyr funerals politically. And don't let anyone make these people look stupid, naive, stupid. There were EC trolls, against any criticism of the ruling party, who didn't speak to opposition from social media, they were abusive, they were abusive. We know where they come from. Now there are EC provocateurs, there are people who abuse and abuse Turkey at funerals. These people, first of all, as the ruling party, you need to kick your ass. If by preventing Republican People's Party from attending the martyr funerals in this way, you're thinking about collecting something that's political to yourself -- I hope not -- it's a shame, it's a sin, it's the biggest betrayal that can be done to this country. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0060par0295	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0061par0296	Why did we go arm in arm? I said Mr. Engin? Why did the CHP and the MHP go arm in arm?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0055par0297	No, man, you've got to understand. You're saying that.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0061par0298	No, why did we go arm in arm?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0055par0299	He's the son of the martyr's uncle... he's the son of 100 uncles.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0061par0300	That's what I'm saying. We went arm in arm.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0055par0301	Who's going arm in arm, man?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0062par0302	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... However, I also need to make this determination: Mr. Yildiz also stated that the attacks against HDP buildings and the burning of CHP's wreath were a provocation and stood up against it. I've found it useful to emphasize that again. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0063par0305	Both Mr. Engin Altay and Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım have teased our party in their speech.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0064par0306	No, we didn't pick on you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0063par0307	So the sign, what that sign means, means abuse...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0064par0308	If you accept this sign at the funeral correctly, I picked on you, go ahead, make a promise.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0065par0309	Mr. Altay, I'll be the judge of that.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0064par0310	No, no, I'll tell you what I'm saying, Mr. President. That's wrong at the funeral, and that's wrong; it's shameful, it's shameful.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0066par0311	The Deputy Speaker of Parliament will decide.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0065par0312	Yes, Mr. Master. Let's give you a say.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0067par0314	What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0068par0315	Wait, maybe he'll say something else, Engin, why are you getting excited?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0069par0316	Why are you getting excited?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0067par0317	Why would I be excited? I'm talking. What are you talking about? This is Congress. This is Congress.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0069par0318	There's a Deputy Speaker here.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0070par0319	Mr. Altay... Congressmans, please, I beg you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0071par0321	Now, dear friends, we are a state, we are a nation. People have common values. Of course, we may disagree, but what do we have in common? The unity of the country, the integrity of the country, is a common value. If we have a soldier, a martyr, a cop, who gave his life for this country, taking care of his funeral, taking care of his family, that's our common value. We don't think it's right to do politics over them in any way, I'll tell you that. Just because someone made some signs there as an individual doesn't mean that there are institutional political parties. Of course, I mean, there's no way we can say anything about how he's going to act on every single one of these. As the National Movement Party, I think we've been very careful not to do anything that means no abuse, especially from martyrs. Now, another issue, by the way, is the arson of HDP's buildings. Our President-General has stated that in no way do we find them true. On the other hand, it was called a declaration. As the National Movement Party, we all prepared, contributed, so it's not like we signed a text that was put in front of us, and we need to fix it. And we don't know who hung the flag that was hung on the HDP building in Kayseri. He has nothing to do with our organization, with our party. We want that to be known. We, especially in sensitive times like this, need to put together a tie. Look, we need to avoid separative sentences. It's like, sometimes we get really excited, and we say things, and the reflections of what we're talking about out here are very different. I think we should take great care of this, especially at this time. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0072par0328	Thank you. In favour of the group proposal of Peoples' Democratic Party, İstanbul MP Mehmet Bacheloroğlu will speak at last. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0073par0332	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, we're all sorry for the recent hand-to-hand incident. We really don't know what to say. In the past few days, we've lost several security guards, police and soldiers in two explosions. Yesterday, in Ankara, in the capital, the Russian Ambassador was killed by an assassination of my hands. Dear friends, let me put it this way: On all three occasions -- let no one be angry -- there is a serious security weakness. That's the only reason for terrorism. I don't mean anything by it. But let me tell you this: Is it really an issue, my friends, to predict that an attack like that can be made, that a commando troops can come there, that they can be fought in the fight against terrorism? Those people are being put on a public bus and they're going unguarded. It's clear there was a serious security weakness in the murder of the Russian ambassador yesterday. And the fact that the person who killed him, the person with a magazine bullet, didn't get caught alive, makes a lot of sense, my dear friends. Dear friends, the country is being pulled into a darkness very quickly, we see it, we feel it together. Years ago, at a meeting on Syrian peace in Istanbul, not many, five years ago, at a meeting between Syria and the opposition, I told them that Syria could be like this and that a country, while you were dealing with each other, could be destroyed. I don't want to say the same thing here, my dear friends, but, unfortunately, we're moving very quickly here if we don't do something here. Yes, Turkey is under a major attack by terror; we are losing our lives, our children; we are sorry, of course, we are angry, but the people who run the country do not act in anger, my dear friends; those who rule the country, with common sense, with quietness, with silence, and most importantly, they act in law. It's your duty in the first place, your duty as the ruling party. This nation has given you the task of running this country, our dear friends, but the government doesn't describe anything to it, it criticizes the others all the time; Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and CHP. I'm really offended by the Minister's CHP criticism, as if he's taking it as normal. For once, friends, once you stop and see what we're doing wrong, our mistake, our trouble, what's the problem? Ask me once, please. Now, Mr. Secretary comes out, talks about revenge, after a major incident, let's be another Minister. He says, "Let's be martyrs." Another MP comes out, writes, counts CHP, the country's main opposition party on the terror list, dear friends. There are attacks on HDP buildings, and those who go there are not there. My dear friends, where are we really going? Yes, there are provocations, the last time we saw the Russian ambassador killed. The country is fragile, we know that, the provocateurs are at work, we know that, but it is you, dear friends, who will take precautions. Okay, let the opposition speak in a manner that is not tense, but run a scan backwards, look, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Look, an academic came out, very clearly, moved what was going on in Syria to Turkey and provoked a sectal war in Turkey, and made it very clear that he threatened it. It's known that the journalists -- who they are, who they support, what they support -- not to mention their names -- they provoke columnists from morning to evening, they provoke people, they provoke each other. My dear friends, look, there are hundreds of videos on social media. These videos give the impression that what happened in Syria will move to Turkey tomorrow. The militants who know what's there, what's going on are threatening Turkey openly. You left us alone in Syria. Look, with all this going on, while Turkey's first issue is going to be this terrorism, Turkey's Grand National Assembly is going to meet and talk about it, while we are discussing the presidential system in the light of a meaningless desire of one person, and there are a lot of our MPs right now. Look, this is the road after June 7th, not the road, folks. With this polarization, the pressure, no one's going anywhere. Even if there's a president here, the presidency won't be of any use to anyone. ▪ Let us be one. You say, "How will we become one, my dear friends? " How are we gonna be together? How are we to be united by tension, by crisis, by threatening people with terror? That's what I'm asking you. Another thing: Every government spokesman says until the last terrorist remains; every time the bureaucrats take the stand, until the last terrorist remains. It's said in anger, it's understandable, let's say it shows determination to fight terrorism, but really, my dear friends, you're running this country, until the last terrorist remains... have you ever seen anything like this anywhere in the world? Don't you know how many governments, how many bureaucrats have said that in this country before you? Isn't it you, my dear friends, who are in charge of this incident, this tension in the country, this conflict? Let's get our heads together, my dear friends, Turkey, all of us. Look, a while ago, Mr. President and other government officials said I had nowhere else to go. Who else has a place to go, dear friends? Isn't this country our country? Isn't this a promise for all of us, for all of us? Türku, Kurdlu, Lazyık, Çerkek il, Alevi, Alevi isi, Sunni, left-winger, right-winger, Justice and Development Party (AKP) people, People's Party, People's Party (CHP) people, the people, are all of us out of the question, aren't we? If we don't develop a political system, a social process that we can see ourselves in, all of us, including all of us, including the most contrary thinkers, in which we can see ourselves, in opposition, in different ways, in which we can see ourselves there, in this country, in this country, in this country, in this nation, it really doesn't look good, my dear friends. See, now, where we're going to talk about all of this, where we're going to build a social order like this, we're up; right now, most of our MPs are talking about a constitutional amendment in the Constitutional Commission, they're arguing. What is this? The Parliamentary system doesn't work. So, my dear friends, I ask you: What has this parliamentary system prevented you from doing for 15 years? Come on, there were some problems up until 2007 when you said the presidential election or something, the custody system, that's right. So, what did you want to do after that, and you couldn't, and what law did you want to bring in, and you couldn't? My dear friends, we don't like the present system either. This is a parliamentary system crippled by September 12th coup law. If there are problems, it's due to the coup law. But, we're looking at you, you've done nothing about coup law so far, my friends, you've continued to use all of the coup institutions head-on. Now you're saying: "No, we want to bring the presidency." What kind of presidency do you want to bring? You want to bring in a presidential system that will repair the breaches of the parliamentary system, problems, or a parliamentary system crippled by coup law? No, you want to bring in one man system. He's the one who's going to do everything; you're bringing in a system that's going to make the law, he's going to do the assignments, he's going to appoint the higher judgment, he's going to do everything. This isn't the road, my dear friends; there's no way out. You have to stop somewhere and ask, "Where did we go wrong?" We're asking as opposition, believe me, we're learning a lot, and you need to learn. This arrogance, this arrogance, this arrogance, we know everything, we do it... you have to give it up. Look, dear friends, you make roads, bridges, tunnels, you do well. As far as we're concerned, this nation will always make roads, bridges, grow bread, grow Turkey, but once Turkey is gone, really, God forbid, after a great disaster like civil war, we can't do anything, dear friends, we can't do anything. If there's a problem with our country, with everyone's honor and freedom, with our country, the unity of the nation, we can't do anything. We all need to get our heads together. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0074par0352	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. People's Democratic Party will finally speak against the group's proposal, Adıyaman MP Adnan Boynukara. Here you go, Mr. Boyukar.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0075par0356	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I cherish all those who have sacrificed their lives, put their lives on the line for the safety of our country and our nation. May God save all mankind from the scourge of terror. I also curse the attack on the Russian Ambassador. The statement of the two country's executives has corrupted the plans of the organisers of this terrorist attack. Clearly, this is very important and valuable. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that it is not right to interpret the Parliament's current legislative activities in the form of a single person's request, to evaluate them. On the one hand, during the Salvation War, the Veteran Assembly worked. We will say, "On the other hand, we will despise the current legislative activities." It's not right to understand and accept that. We can draw the argument to a proper level, that's understandable. There's a law enforcement activity going on right now, but it's obvious that it's not right to completely ignore this legislative activity. If we remember the events that we've experienced in the past year, it's clear that Turkey is specifically wanted to be designed through terrorist organizations in our region, and we can see clearly that the PKK terrorist organisation is responsible for terrorist attacks that the PKK terrorist group does not want to carry out, the differentiative organisations of PKK (PKK), PYD, YPG, DHKP-C, DAİH, you can increase them. For all of us, from all of us who are in parliament, I believe that the names of the organisations have no value or meaning because we call them all "terror organizations," we declare that terror organizations must be fought and we fight terrorist organizations. All terrorist organizations are derivatives of the only understanding of one organization that feeds each other and is the product of the same thought. Dear lawmakers, what needs to be done when it comes to terrorism is to protect the safety of the country and its citizens, who are bound by citizenship in this country. I think that all the parties and politicians who are doing civilian politics believe that this issue is not a political issue. Our approaches and assessments may be different, but I believe that the determination to fight is mutual. Another thing we need to know is that these terrorist attacks alone are not the work of terrorist organizations. We have no doubt that these organisations are organised and supported through intelligence organisations belonging to countries who want to design our region, even planning. It is the most concrete example of some states offering weapons assistance to the PKK terror organization. This message has also been asked to be delivered through US soldiers in PKK, YPG, NYD armor, which have emerged in areas close to Turkey's borders. Turkey is asked to submit to the design intended to be made in our region. Turkey wants to be aligned through these attacks. We're expected to remain silent when the chaos deepens. Look, it's also a concrete sign that this game we're talking about is not a single country's work. So there's a global siege and design effort, so it's good to see that. Dear lawmakers, we believe that Turkey is a country with problems where different social communities are sides, and we have no questions here. The main thing here is how to solve these problems. The only thing to do when it comes to solving problems with social communities is to talk to the relevant communities. Obviously, there are no problems we can't solve as long as we can talk. It's up to us to separate terrorism from civil politics and talk to whoever's making weapons and violence a tool and to fight it and to talk to our citizens. Dear lawmakers, I don't believe that any social community living in this geography has a problem with other social groups. There are those who want to play with the social fault lines, there are those who want to cause problems among our people and citizens. All of us, all of us, all of the parties in the House, all of them outside the House, should be against it. We have to stop this understanding, we have to decipher this approach, we have to stop it. The only way we can do this is together. The PKK's terrorist organization and those who support its derivatives, well, let them know that they have not been able to create a social conflict or a field of dissolution, they will not be able to create it, this geography does not allow it. The people of this universal savings of humanity do not allow it; they have their own values, their own relationships, their own brotherhood. So let's just say, let's give up this dirty game. And let's go on, let's say we're all going to fight terrorism together, whether you give up or not. Dear lawmakers, as long as there's no language of insult and terror, we can talk about anything. What's really important is protecting the legitimate ground, not taking refuge in the shadow of terrorist organizations, not cooperating with forces that threaten Turkey, transferring our claims, our opinions, our ideals, our ideals to the public through democratic means of legitimacy. However, those who commit illegal acts of aggression by breaking the law will find no reward from our people, from our people, from our nation. Because no matter what kind, no matter who it's done against, it's the chaos of violence and terror, and chaos is the way to put dynamite in this country's future. To those who want to lead Turkey into chaos, we must not allow it together, we must oppose it. In short, terror is not the way. If we don't develop a common will about our common values, if we don't display that attitude, we'll be living in terror. If we raise our voices against each other with small nuances, we support terror, no matter what it's called. I'm sure we all know that, and I believe you believe it's right to develop an appropriate attitude. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0076par0369	Thank you, Mr. Bonekara. I will submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: those who agree...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0077par0371	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit02spe0076par0372	I'm going to ask for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0076par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. During the vote of the People's Democratic Party group, there was no sufficient number of decisions. I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0078par0004	No, President. [[The AK PARTY lines have a..... the sounds of the AK PARTY...... the sounds of the AK ……]] Electronics, electronics...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0076par0007	The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0079par0009	I swear to God, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0078par0010	No, Mr. President. The council members don't get along, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0080par0012	The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it and put it to your votes...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0078par0014	No!
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0080par0015	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0078par0016	Let's count it.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0080par0017	Congressmans, please let's be a little more sensitive and discreet today. Please, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0081par0018	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0080par0019	Please, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0081par0020	Mr. President, common sense requires the right act. You're saying there's not enough to make a decision, but there is. It's common sense...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0080par0021	I'm having the Republican People's Party's group proposal read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 20/12/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Group Deputy Chairs Ankara MP Levent Gök, İstanbul MP Engin Altay and Manisa MP Özgür Sici follow political power and determine the wrong foreign policy practices that carry the front of the war and the back of the war as a controversial country, and make sure that the reasons for the failure to prevent the rising terrorist incidents are not investigated in 20/12/2016. lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the reviews and held in the same dated combination of its talks on Tuesday (20/12/2016). In favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal, İstanbul MP Engin Altay will speak first. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0082par0032	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Congressmans, our House has an agenda on the Bill of the Test Property Act.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0080par0035	Congressmans, please be quiet.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0082par0036	It's a bill that we think is appropriate for the markets, the business world. As the Republican People's Party, we have offered our necessary contributions in the commission of this bill, and our friends have done this work. We want to first declare that we will support this law in terms of speedy, serial, healthy functioning of the Parliament, that we will make a sound contribution to it, and that we are ready to take out the law that the markets are waiting for without the use of many opportunities that the Turkish Parliament has given to the opposition. However, Mr. President, Turkey is going through a very difficult time, terrorism, bombs, assassinations, attacks have now become perceived in public as ordinary, ordinary, ordinary business, and this is not a view that Turkey deserves. Yeah, by the way, it's December 17th or 25th. The Justice and Development Party will be celebrated as the week of the fight against corruption in Turkey on December 17th and 25th, when the ruling party one day ends. We told you then, and we told you that in 2013 -- we have nothing to do with the members of the ruling party -- we said, "O government! You can't cover up the corruption of this century. But when there are so many martyrs in the middle, don't think that we won't be able to scratch Turkey's heavy wound again these days because of the fall of fire in the furnaces. Anyone who has any flaws in the corruption of the 17-25th-December century, anyone who commits any crime, will eventually answer in front of the law, before the courts. A member of the ruling party who just spoke said we are fighting terror. For God's sake, put your hands on your conscience. Is there a war on terrorism in Turkey, or after every terrorist attack, just like this Capitol, Turkey has turned into a condolence tent, which the lawmakers must ask themselves. I don't think there's any way the government can fight terrorism right now, because today, Mr. President told us. You destroyed the intelligence agency, you left no driver's licenses in the government, no merits, and it was very painful, very upsetting what the security forces had become, but it was revealed that a police officer who attacked the Russian Ambassador was still involved with this attack. Under the circumstances, we'd like to propose something like this to the majority party, if other opposition parties agree. Come, today or tomorrow, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will hold the general meeting we have just proposed. Congressmans, this is needed. You've taken so many people for granted that three people died, 10 people died, I just put two of our Sinopian babies in the ground yesterday and came here. I wonder if it hurts for me and yours doesn't. I'm talking to the executives of the ruling party, the members of the group, even picking on them. Mr. Mehmet Mush, I'm teasing you: doesn't it feel bad for you? With so many people dying in the middle, 20-year-old saplings in the ground, I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary, we're going to pass your law in one day, we're going to do it in one day. We want to eat grapes, we don't want to beat the laces. Let's talk about terrorism in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The government can't fight terrorism, it doesn't have the resources. As I was saying earlier today, as the President General said, what case is this government getting intel on? After the incident, we saved the land. It's a shame, it's a shame, it's a shame. The government's gonna be pissed off when they say it's the one who rules over it. This is the government's responsible lawmakers, not the Justice and Development Party. The government is responsible for this bloodshed, it cannot step back from it, it cannot escape from it, it cannot say that I have no responsibility; it has a responsibility, and the future will answer to the people, and will answer to us in the name of the great nation. Is there a government that wishes to make amends? I just told you, there's a group like this, there's a group like this, what a shame. And I regret to say, God let this be the last time, so let no more blood or tears be shown to Turkey. But, our rich man pays the price, our soldier's from the poor, as in his song... never, not at all, but I haven't seen a family of martyrs wearing a tie in ten years. Isn't that a sin? Don't you feel hurt? There's no way to the village of my martyr who I buried yesterday in Sinop. Just because he's a martyr, the government's mobilised, so we've reached a difficult cemetery. Don't the government have a responsibility, dear lawmakers? You've given the vote of confidence, of course, your own party. But, God exists, so we worship, you worship, we have no responsibility? So this government is flawed, friend, why did you do this? Why is this missing? Isn't it your right to say it? I mean, we're the government, we're the government, we're the power, so don't let God give us that kind of power. I mean, in a country where there'll be blood and tears every day, I don't take that kind of power parliamentary position into my heart. Friends, those voters vote for you most of the time, and maybe they'll vote for you again, and I don't know about that; it's a separate job. But I invite you to a conscience, and I call you to an open call from this place, if we have to spend one day in the Bill of Test Property. But I regret to say to the world that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has disgraced us... and for the first time in Turkey, an ambassador is killed in an art activity by the police of the state. Mr. Secretary, what if we passed the Test Property Act? I know the markets want it so bad, but in a country like this that can't be trusted, the industry won't survive in a country like Lebanon, Mr. Secretary. Let's do it, but first let Turkey's Grand National Assembly do its job. Turkey's Grand National Assembly's main job is to seize the issue. We're dealing with a government that doesn't exist here, but can't run Turkey. It's no use going to the crime scene and making a statement. Where's the counterintelligence, brother? What does this MIT do? Where's MIT? Why do you have this MIT? Isn't it known that all of this is external? The mission of the MIT is an organization for external threats, not work within; and let those who do not know know know know know know know it. What does MIT do? I'm sure he'll be able to track me down after this conversation, take a picture of me. Don't let him do his best. But why is MIT like this? There's no license, no merit, there's political staffing, there's a period of surrender to a congregation, and then there's a trick, so let's clean them up. He's back at the firehouse, no one knows whose hand's in whose pocket, no one knows who's giving orders to who. What's happening is happening to the poor bastard's child. Remember, we are the party of the strange guru. Those kids owe money to their families. I'm calling from here, and I'm calling the media, and I'm saying there can't be a Parliament that doesn't discuss terrorism. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0083par0045	Thank you, Mr. Altay. The Republican People's Party will first speak against the group's proposal, Mr Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0084par0049	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and the great Turkish nation. My dear friends, first of all, I express my deep regret over yesterday's vicious terrorist attack against Mr Andrei Karlov, ambassador to the Russian Federation, and strongly condemn this vile assassination. My condolences to the Russian people and to the Russian Federation officials. It is inevitable that this vicious attack on Turkey-Russian relations, which is likely to damage, of course, is related to the developments in the Middle East and will affect them. In his statement of condolence, Mr. President of the State Garden, the messages of common sense from the two countries, the visit of our Foreign Minister yesterday, the statements of the two authorities afterwards, the statements made against him that would not come to this provocation have eased the hesitation and anxiety a bit. With these systematic murders and acts of terrorism aimed at provocation, our country is being cornered, and the regional and global plan is trying to weaken its hand. We all see that every day. These are also being tried by various actions. Despite these developments, however, despite these wicked attacks, despite the assassinations, Turkey will overcome these difficult days and will be able to overcome them. The Turkish nation is a great nation, and the state of the Republic of Turkey is a great state. During the period, such attacks and sieges have been tried, but we've been able to repel them for years. Hopefully, from now on, we'll show the nation that we'll be able to stop these terrorist attacks and the purpose of the surrounding environments before they all return. Of course, Mr. Engin has been doing some bullying once in a while, but we all need to get away from the polarizing, separative language, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0085par0053	I don't think so.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0084par0054	We need to get away from things that make society nervous at funerals and other places. As the National Movement Party, we're always very sensitive, especially Mr. President, first we call the country and the nation, and then we have a structure that dominates the understanding of us. We have always been constructive, guiding, especially in these acts of terrorism, in certain conflicts, in social conflicts. Here, of course, there may be people who want to infect the ulterior, nationalist movement, who might be using our symbols. But what's to be respected here is the statement made by the members of the National Movement Party and Mr. General President. Just as on the night of July 15th, we made the necessary statements from the National Movement Party's headquarters, and then we recommended it, we immediately warned the authorities about the setbacks that we saw about them, and those responsible will be found. We wanted to avoid acts that would lead to social provocations. For him, we don't find it very right to go into that kind of polymics, dear friends. Because the National Movement Party recognizes terrorism as the greatest threat to the lives and security of our people, our national unity, our democracy and economic development, and it sees the fight against terrorism as a national policy that should not be ignored under any circumstances. In this context, let's always apply comprehensive, multidimensional, results-taking policies to save our country from terror. The day before, Mr. President repeated again, several times before, when Mr. Gul was President, and after that, we proposed a strategy for a total fight against eight-point-tenths of terrorism. We've always offered our suggestions at the summit of leaders and in the work done, dear friends. In this context, we said the terrorist should take the fight against terrorism as a total struggle instead of the idea of a fight against the center. While fighting terror and terrorists effectively, the safety of lives and property must be first provided and should not be allowed to be harmed. During the fight against terror, we said, "Let us distinguish between right and right, and the innocent from the guilty, and let us continue the fight firmly in the ways of the legal state." In this scope, it is not possible for any of us, our security forces, our security forces fighting terrorism, to accept attitudes and actions that will weaken the morale of the Turkish Armed Forces, to disrupt their work, but we, as the MPHP, care about that first. But, however, we also said that after the government announced an incentive package in parallel with this comprehensive struggle, which was only the Attractive Centers Program, by the end of September, Mr. Gardened announced to the East and Southeast Anatolian Development Programme. We've made this statement here to ensure national unity and integration by increasing economic growth in these 23 counties, social development and social reconciliation, and I've told you about part of that in the budget closing speech. Here we said that we aim to bring all of our citizens to the same level as modern world blessings and social development level, to the same level as Ataturk. Thus, when we apply these programs, we will be able to stimulate the potential our country has, boost the prosperity of our people in these parts, and reduce the difference in development; and we will be able to make the compassionate hand of the state feel for our citizens in the most remote part of our country. In this context, we have provided you with four main projects under this main program. One of them was the anti-terrorism program, which I just said the main lines, we have no chance to do without taking a radical new strategy, without showing the state's determination; the second was the rural development centers programme; the third was the integration and inclusive economic growth; and the fourth was the resolving of regional development differences. When we apply all of these, dear friends, both economically and socially, then we'll have found a solution to eradicate terrorism, and then we'll have to cut off the financial resources and save society from that problem. Hopefully, we'll consider it and in some way, we'll work out the fundamental solution to this problem together. On the other hand, many developments in foreign policy, the debates that we've had in Aleppo, which are the subject of the motion today, we've been talking about what happened in Syria, Iraq, for days. We're dealing with a drama right now. Yes, it was due to the wrong policies from the past to today. We've said it over and over again. But our goal as the National Movement Party is to eat grapes right now, not to beat up the lace. They already know their mistakes, and they're self-criticizing themselves. What's the solution? The solution is to strongly defend the interests of the Republic of Turkey today, suggest what needs to be done, and support it when it is done correctly. What did we say? We said it in 2012, but it's only been done. Operation Firat Shield, what do we do? Mr. Gardenli said in 2012: "Let's set up a safe zone to clean up all the terror zones from Kandil to Afrin." Again, what did we say when these immigration events took place: let's build tents within the border of Syria, let's bring the international community, let's give it material moral support. Let the United Nations come, let the EU come, let us share the burden together. We said it would be a problem if we let him in. Now he's going in, he's coming out, it's a problem, yes, but we need to find a solution, we need to get back to the damage. That's why we say it. Again, again, there are talks that are starting again in Cyprus right now. We believe that a solution that is realistic and practical and can continue should be a two-digit, two-nation and two-state partnership. We have also stated that it is not enough for us to show one-sided goodwill for such a solution. Both the Greek administration and the EU must now take a good and constructive approach to this issue. Our party finds it not acceptable that the talks that began in Cyprus should continue in a way that would undermine Turkey's red lines, reduce Turkish Cypriotism to minority status, endanger its presence in the island, and weaken its understanding of political equality. Nothing in Cyprus should be accepted to force the Turkish Cypriot into pre-74 conditions. As a result, in order to give Turkey's geostrategic position a strategic economic dimension, our country must have a global power in this region. And he says that we can all do it together, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0086par0059	Thank you, Mr. Günal. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Hishyar Ozsoy will speak second. Here you go, Mr. Ozsoy.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0087par0063	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. Of course, I'd like to begin with the case of Andrei Karlov, Ambassador to the Russian Federation, who was assassinated yesterday. We offer our condolences to the people of the Russian Federation and to the government of the Russian Federation. Of course, it's a battleable event. Those who know a little of Turkey's political history, diplomatic history, probably the first Russian Consul who was killed during Abdulhamid, or the Israeli Consul who was killed during World War II, some of these examples come to mind. But there is a conjunctural alliance in the region. The Russian Federation doesn't seem to be making a big deal out of this for the time being. The first messages given by both Turkey and Russia are already considered to be a provocation to the Russian-Turkey relations which are beginning to normalize this attack, which is the first response. But you have to be careful about that, too, for the moment. For what we're saying, you know, after the jet crisis, the relationship between Turkey and Russia became asymmetrical after the Russian jet that was dropped. Turkey was forced to take it under the table, making some concessions to clear up the situation. Both inside and in Syria, he made some compromises to normalise relations. Did he do good or did he do bad? Separately, a controversial issue has somehow normalized relationships. But the fact that an ambassador of a country was killed here by a policeman means that in terms of foreign policy, the asymmetric relationship between Turkey and Russia will deepen. Why? Because Russia will always bring this stain to the front of Turkey on the savings of Turkey, which is beyond its wishes. I mean, we have to edit our foreign policy the way Russia wants us to, as a country. Otherwise, you know the Russians, so this summer he accused the government of selling weapons to ISIS, of supporting them, of promoting them in all international areas. Now there's been a situation, they've had a close relationship with the government, and it's in the media, they're writing things like brother Putin. Friends, really, it's not just the institutions of the state, but the press, diplomacy, it's a picture of Turkey, with so many invertebrates in every field. All institutions are now down; we are truly down from press, ministry, intelligence, to police; I say this as a country. Now, why? So we don't have a lot of data right now, so I don't want to go into conspiracy theories. He did the service, al Qaeda did it, he did it, he did it... Friends, let's wait, let's wait, see if we can get some data. Talking right now would be conspiracy theory. Turkey does a lot of that, too. Anyway, we're looking at the media, and there's a lot of strategists out there that we don't know who they are, and they're out there, they're out there, they're out there, they're out there, they're out there, they're out there, they're manipulating, they're brainwashing, they're out there.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0088par0066	If only they had brains of their own.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0087par0067	For God's sake, I'm telling you, they don't know anything about Middle Eastern politics or foreign policy. Why do they get so much money, why do they put it on these TVs, and we're amazed to see it? Here's the thing, friends: Why is this happening to Turkey? Let's take a look at a conjunctural. Why is Russia's Ambassador to Turkey being slaughtered by a police officer who shouts, "We won't forget the Halep. " This is about Syrian policy. Clearly, the killing of an ambassador in Ankara has a direct connection to both regional and global power fights. In addition to the incident with the Blue Marmara -- I'm sorry, I apologize -- but a market for Palestine was set up and sold; we saw it, we argued on the commission, and we argued here. After the Palestinians, it was time for Aleppo. Turkey is trying to pull its military, diplomatic support from the Aleppo people who are fighting in Aleppo, and now -- I'm telling you in person -- to get them out of there with a number of human concerns. Perhaps they will return the militants they have removed from Aleppo, and bring them back, and use them there in the context of the Fırat Shield; for it seems that they have not. Friends, you know what's causing all these disasters: to insist on the policy you've made wrong in Syria. Why are you getting so close to Russia? How come she's such a sweetheart? What happened? The Kurds will have status there, won't they? We will give him Aleppo, and take him. That's the story? This. I've made this statement in this General Assembly, which is exactly what I said on the stand, that you can't go from a bee to a flower like that to a foreign policy. You get up from one flower to another, the other flowers get angry with you, fade away, you have trouble. We see it, we see it very clearly here. Now, the truth is, I've given up hope that this government, this state, this Parliament will come back from this wrong. Syria's policy now has only one goal -- news is coming in now, Assad -- there are reports in Syria that Iran, Russia and Turkey have agreed on a political solution without a regime change, and I don't know how accurate it is, but Reuters has begun to pass such news in English -- Turkey's Syrian policy now has only one condition, one: Kurds shouldn't merge those two cantons. Aha, that's it. So, from Kandil -- Mr. Deputy, you've just said -- he's made an alliance with the Kurds to Afrin, creating an island of stability, creating an inner peace in Turkey, creating a magnificent political environment, and we mean that more than 1,000km, 1,300km, 1,500km, the state of the Republic of Turkey has compressed himself to 90km with the wrong policies of this government, from Kobani to Afrin. That's visionlessness. I'm not going to make peace with the Kurds, who's going to enter that 90km? I'll ignore ISIS, Al Nusra, whatever organization there is, whatever organization there is fighting with the Kurds, I'll either support them, I'll trade them, Idris Bauken, who's in prison now, explained that there's a trade made by the government after ISIS has taken the gates. Trade stops once you're in PYD. So which one just told you, which one of our friends told you? Mr. Secretary, if our former Minister were PYD, it wouldn't matter if it was ISIS." he says. No, it matters. See, you're trading with ISIS, not dealing with PYD. So there's a difference. We are now learning that Turkey has sold enormous amounts of potassium nitrate to Syria over the past two or three years. For example, in 2014, there was a sale of potassium nitrates in 2015, reaching 10,000 tons, sold partial potassium nitrates in 2003 and 2008. These are sheets and sheets right now. There are 13 companies there to use explosive materials, one of which I don't want to get into the polymax, but a very large politician's close friend's company, there are such strange relationships. Let's not take too long, guys. I'm running out of time. The Home Secretary must resign immediately. In the last two months, attack HDP (HDP) with what he has done, take a thousand HDP people within a week, and lock them up last week. Two years ago, he was recently laid off in the context of fighting the recruited congregation, while he was dealing with us, while our county buildings were being burned down, while the Home Secretary -- here, look, the security weakness -- went out to deal with these terrorists, if he's dealing with them. He needs to resign immediately. There's no limit to the death, but still with a grudge, still with a pride, still with a call for revenge, and extremely macho...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0089par0073	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0087par0074	I'll finish right away, Mr. President. We call it a bit of responsibility. I can't do it, I can't do it, I'm quitting. I can say, I'll show courage. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0090par0078	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0091par0079	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0092par0080	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0090par0081	Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0091par0082	In his speech, the preacher said things that had nothing to do with my reference to the speech I made. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0090par0083	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0091par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. My goal is not to create a polemic and respond. We don't want to be on the side of those arguments either, but what we're saying is that it's not about Kurdish citizens or Kurds living in Syria. What we're saying is that the terror line from Kandil to Afrin is clean. For us, whether it's ISIS or DAIH -- no matter what you say -- PYD, PJAK, YPG, it doesn't concern us, all terrorist organizations are terrorist organizations. What we're saying is that the area where these people live is clean of terror. Today, ISIS, PKK, NYD, YPG, DSO, they're saying something, but there's a instability there. As the National Movement Party, we look at the developments in both Syria and Iraq as well as the stability and security of both the region and Turkey. We have repeatedly said that we will not hesitate to place our hands under all kinds of stones in order to get rid of all terrorist organizations, ISIS, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and all its extensions. Otherwise, Mr. Speaker, he took a little twist and looked at what we had to say. For the safety of the people there, we look at the safety of all people and the territorial integrity of those countries -- whether in Iraq or Syria -- whether it's Arab or Sunni or Kurd or Shii -- whether it's Kurdish. In this regard, we feel that Operation Fırat Shield is important, although its goals are limited, and we feel that this fight must continue. We believe this step is important for the stopping of terrorist activities in both countries, and for that to do so, we need to negotiate with all parties and act on an international initiative, allowing these countries to be free of terrorism by providing territorial integrity. So, he says to our country that terrorist activities from there will be reduced to a minimum, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0093par0087	Thank you, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0094par0088	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0093par0089	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0094par0090	He's been picking on our group that we can't accept, Mr. Orator, and we'd like a word from that point of view.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0095par0091	Like what?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0093par0092	Let me ask you that question. Would you care to elaborate?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0096par0094	Now, here, since we tolerate terrorist organizations, we support...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0093par0095	That's enough. Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0097par0096	That's enough. What do you mean, president?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0098par0097	It's too much, give me four minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0099par0098	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, once we're here, we're going to see who's saying it, then we're going to make an assessment of whether or not we're going to consider it. It's a party that's intertwined with the talking PKK. A political party who can't break their promise, who can't break their promise, who can't leave the terrorists' funeral, is accusing us of supporting terrorist organizations. We deny it, we absolutely don't accept it. Look, why did Turkey do the Firat Shield operation? Who is Turkey fighting against now in Al-Bab? DAIH is fighting against the terrorist organization. They are the terrorist organizations who are fighting against the PKK's branch in Syria. From Kandil... who's in Kandil? PKK terror organization. And who is trying to settle in the north of Syria? It is also a PKK terrorist organisation, the PKK terrorist organisation's Syrian arm, the PYD terrorist organisation. They're no different. The terrorists who attacked Turkey -- the ones who killed our police, our soldiers -- they're either coming out of Kandil, or, you know, they're talking about a line, or they're coming out of that line.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0100par0100	None of them came out of there.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0099par0101	...attributing security units in Turkey, to our members of the police. We're just gonna let this happen, and we're just gonna keep quiet? Of course we're going to intervene. Sir, they were trading with him, they were doing something like this............ and recently another intelligence group imposed such things, and today he apologized that his allegations were false.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0101par0102	It's stale, it's stale, it's even broken.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0099par0103	We can't ignore them, dear lawmakers. We have to express from here that Turkey will continue to fight this terror until the end. These terrorist organizations are acting in a subcontracted way against Turkey, and someone is giving them a piece of advice.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0102par0105	Is there a decision from the Council of Ministers, Mr. Mush?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0099par0106	Let no one doubt that we will root them out. These terrorist organizations and their supporters will be wiped out.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0103par0108	The slogan, the slogan!
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0104par0109	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0105par0110	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0104par0111	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0105par0112	Mr. President, since the orator has returned to our group and has shown our party in the form of another organization...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0106par0113	The PKK is a terrorist organization, not another organization. I said it's a PKK terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0104par0114	The party that couldn't stop him from being involved with the PKK terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0105par0115	He's inside. He said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0104par0116	So he called it an interconnected party that couldn't cut off his relationship. To say it's not like this, please, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0105par0117	If you don't mind, I'll sit down, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0104par0118	I promise you two minutes to tell you it's not like this. Listen and react like that.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0107par0119	I told you, the PKK is in control, and I'll say it again.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0105par0120	Now, you can't show an international institution and perspective from many international institutions around the world describing our party as you do, but in Europe, the United States of America is also from Amnesty International...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0108par0121	You're already doing that by trusting them.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0109par0122	They call the PKK a terrorist organization, but they hold conferences in their own parliament.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0105par0123	...a scroll of power and Turkey that shows this country intertwined with ISIS because of the wrongs made by power...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0110par0124	Yeah, which scroll? Tell me, put it in the middle.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0105par0125	...look, we're dealing with a report. And you're talking about business. Your current group vice president, Mr. Elitaş, former Economy Minister, said that from January 2014 to June 2015, you were trading from Akchakale to Karkamis Border Gate for $7m.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0111par0126	Who did they do it with?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0105par0127	It's not our data, Mr. Elitaş, it's the TİK data. E submitted documents three days ago -- read the article in Hurriyet newspaper -- that Turkish companies had patents on explosives that were found in Mosul, according to an international research agency. Is it we who say this, or are we the tellers? Look, we're saying this without any comment. You go through them. You've made the country a country associated with terrorist organizations as a whole because of the government's mistakes, and you've created that perception. If not, the police killed an ambassador yesterday...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0112par0129	That's what you do! You go talk to him and you do it!
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0113par0130	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0112par0131	You're not supposed to do that as a member of this country, but you are.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0114par0132	I've just said, again, that the ruling oratories have come out of here, like it's an NGO, like it's the Canary Loves Society, and the person who kills directly is a member of a terrorist organization and gets out of it. What does he say about the attacks on our party? You're not an NGO, you're responsible for preventing them.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0115par0133	I thought you were going to explain your relationship with the PKK!
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0114par0134	You're responsible for preventing attacks; you're the owner of Intelligence, Police, Internal Affairs. We don't accept it. You can't say, "You can't get out of it." You have a political responsibility. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0116par0137	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0117par0138	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0116par0139	Mr. Ozsoy...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0118par0140	Were you involved with the PKK, or not, and why didn't you answer it?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0119par0141	Are you or are you not related to ▪? What are you talking about? You're in a relationship with El Nusra!
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0116par0142	Mr. Lawmakers, let's make do with each other by slandering each other. Come on.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0120par0143	Take a break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0116par0144	Mr. Ozsoy...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0121par0145	Mr. President, the MHP speaker said that I twisted what he said in his speech and that he would like to speak in this frame. I mean, I didn't twist what he said, I wanted to give him an answer, it was a tease.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0116par0146	In that case, I'll give you a moment of your time to explain. You will declare that you are not teasing, that you are not twisting. Here you go. I promise you for a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0121par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. By God, in a political atmosphere like this, we really don't mean to be polemic. And I assure you, sir, I didn't twist your words, we're just looking at it from different places, we're looking at it from different places. So what we're saying is that you're all over the world, the PYD, the terrorist organization. Say, look, you say, the world doesn't see it that way; there's a situation like this. Which is what you call a terrorist organization, which was coming here in 2013, when Salih Müslim came here, right? He was invited here, there were interviews. And then it didn't happen; and since we didn't go on, yes, we're sorry; we wish we had, we think Turkey wouldn't have gotten this bad in the Syrian spiral. So we think it's inefficient to develop policy over this concept of terrorism, not to perceive the Kurdish issue in this region. So, yes, this government held talks, negotiations with the PKK, which you call a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0122par0152	You can't say "terror organization," you don't say "terror organization."
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0121par0153	So we think there's no other way out of this than to continue the peace process.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0123par0154	Thank you. Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0124par0156	Mr. President, what are we talking about here? It has been said that I have been under the control of the PKK. I expected an answer, I didn't get an answer like that, I didn't get an answer. There's no answer to my teasing, one.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0125par0157	What did you promise not to pick on, what did you say?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0124par0158	Second: Look, he's saying something about the government's relevant institutions not interfering. Look, a policeman died in Umraniye. Where did our police become martyrs?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0126par0159	It's your job.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0127par0160	Three groups came into our headquarters, and you couldn't send a cop. It's a shame.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0124par0161	Where did our cop die? He's doing an intervention there.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0128par0162	Pick it up, please, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0124par0163	There's a police officer who's been killed. He's in an intervention.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0129par0164	Take cover behind that cop this time!
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0124par0165	We certainly don't agree with trying to create a sense of nothing being done without ever seeing it, without talking, without talking.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0130par0166	You are aggressor, aggressor.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0124par0167	Look, there's a police officer who was killed in the intervention there.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0131par0168	Yes, you are.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0132par0169	Thank you, Mr. Mush. The Republican People's Party will finally speak against the group's proposal, Şanlıurfa MP Ahmet Eşref Fakibaba. Here you go, Mr. Fakibaba.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0133par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I pay my respects to all of you. When you say terror, of course the southeast is one of our leading areas.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0134par0176	It's all coming in now, Congressman, now there's terror everywhere, not just southeast.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0133par0177	Sir, if we really could all be democrats, if democracy was left out of words, if we could love the people, the Kurds, the Turk, the Arab, the Laz, the Çerkek, the Muslim, the non-Muslim, if we could love them, and not use them to turn them into votes, believe me very sincerely, this is a paradise country. This country is enough for all of us. What is happening to us? Who's doing what? So, now, we have friends here who have a Kurdish ethnic group. We have great respect for Kurds. They're really brave people, the people we love so much. When you look at Şanlıurfa, there's Kurd here, look at my friends, there's Kurdish, there's Turkish, there's Arab. Yeah, we don't have any problems, guys, I swear we don't have any problems. Who's causing this problem, guys? Who's making this problem? So, who do they use as tongs? What are they doing? What do they want to give this country? So, I, this brother of yours, was mayor of Şanlıurfa for ten years. There has never been a problem with a Kurd, an Arab, a Turk, and people love each other. Ya, my grandson is a mixed Kurdish and Turkish. Now, what do you call this grandson of mine?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0135par0178	Then why were a thousand of our things attacked for two days?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0133par0179	Now, here's the thing: then, we have to love our real Turkey, we have to give our lives for the real Turkey, we have to appreciate the real Turkey. What can we do if we can't do it, guys? The Republic of Turkey and our government have never opposed the Kurds, nor will they, but we are against the Kandil, because we are against Turkey because they really want to disturb it, because they want to divide the southeast and the country. If not, Kurdish citizens are our lives. We've never...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0135par0180	Do they have a free tongue or a right to education?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0133par0181	Look, Congressman, we have no problem with Kurds, Arabs, other people. They're our brothers, they're our darlings. Turkey can't be just a country where Turks live, but Kurds will live and Arabs will live and the Sunni will live and the Shiites will. Isn't that what America is all about, friends? 50,000 different races, are they fighting? 50,000 different religions, are they fighting?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0135par0182	Politics, politics, your politics.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0133par0183	Look, ha, he's making tongs, look, it's very important here. Here, people who are tongs, organizations who are tongs, want to stir this Turkey once. Friends, we have to do this as democrats: no matter who the terrorist comes from, no matter what group it comes from, no matter who it comes from, no matter what the PYD is, there's no PKK, we'll call it the terrorist group, we'll call it the terrorist group, we'll call it the terrorist group. If we can't say that, we can't go anywhere. Of course, it's the government's job to prevent terrorism, but...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0135par0185	And add El Nusra, and Ahrar.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0136par0186	Mr. Adıyaman...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0133par0187	Look, there are 550 MPs here, and it's our duty as well. There's never been a government that can prevent terrorism on its own. Together, terror was prevented by mutual, brotherly, hand-in-hand, the interests of the country. Otherwise, let the AK PARTI government alone prevent terrorism................... yeah, let's try to prevent terrorism, but in the spirit of July 15th.. In order to prevent terrorism, I believe we must lose the spirit of July 15 once and for all. I started with an example from Glory, and in Şanlıurfa, frankly, there's unemployment, right; there's energy problems, and that's true.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0137par0189	They didn't solve anything.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0133par0190	Yeah, but I mean, a Kurdish guy, a friend, they won't let me in, they won't make me a congressman. Let's join hands -- there are 12 members of Şanlıurfa. Let's deal with the problems of Şanlıurfa. Let's take part in his zeal to make sure that Şanlıurfa is a better, more human-like city.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0137par0192	At the moment, it's the second from the last to the third in the national income. What have you done for 14 years?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0133par0193	But if we say: "Yahu, Kurds are like this, Turks are like that." Here's what's going on, this is what's going on... So I'm asking you, who blew up Istanbul? Come on, answer me. Who died? We had four martyrs, all Kurdish brothers, we all went together. Who's hurting who? What's it for? There's no way we can solve this without going deeper into the reasons for all of this. As a physician, if a child or a patient has a fever, you can't give them aspirin, you'll go down for it. Look, I speak frankly, I am your brother: I speak of our glory, and of our glory, and of Şanlıurfa. It is indeed a city of peace where Kurdish, Turkish, Arab, and Arab live as brothers. But who wants to destroy this city of peace? Who wants to destroy this city of peace, and for what reason? For him, I personally believe that we must investigate and find the reasons for this. The Republic of Turkey and our party are not against Kurds, they are against Kandil, look, they are against Kandil. Any country that wants to divide us, our country, who wants to shoot us, wherever it comes from, the Republic of Turkey will be against it. You'll go, sir, you'll sit in the mountains, when you have the time, when you have the chance, you'll come in and enter the Turkish border, kill people and run away. Is that even possible? What kind of democracy is that? And then we're out, and we're like, "That's democracy. Yeah, democracy means respect for human life once. I'm so sorry about the democrat person -- it's basically someone who doesn't speak up. Forgive me, because I'm burned inside. I mean, it's a paradise country, and I want you to visit the southeast in particular. I want to tell you how beautiful the Kurds are, how hospitable they are, how wonderful nature is there, how advanced agriculture is, how happy and prosperous the Kurds will be when they're really cared about. For that reason, we need to be sincere for once, and we need to be sincere for 550. We will say, sincerely and honestly, we have a country, we have a flag, we have a country, we have a country. And after that, what are our shortcomings? What do Kurds, Turks, Arabs lack in cultural rights? We'll figure it out together. We're not saying that we've done really good things as an AK PARTY for 14 years. There's been a lot of progress in democracy. But if there are problems, it is not from the AK PARTY, it is from those countries that use them. Do I need to name countries, or does everyone know? I swear to God, everybody knows.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0138par0198	Give it to me, give it to me, give it to me. I don't know.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0133par0199	Everybody knows. Who are these countries? What countries do the people of this country have that want Kurds not to live in prosperity? The Kurds know him very well. But unfortunately, we can't act in unity and unity. My plea to all of you, all of us, have a country of 550, and we must take the spirit of the 15th of July with us.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0138par0201	Is there a soul left or is there a soul left from July 15th? You put everyone away.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0133par0202	If you give this to the government alone, of course we're the government, we'll run it, but terrorism is a different story.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0139par0203	You will preserve that soul first.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0133par0204	It's never been seen on Earth where a government deals with terrorism on its own. For him, we'll hold hands, we've got a Turkey, we've got a country. We live in a paradise country, we should appreciate it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0140par0207	Thank you, Mr. Fakibaba. The Republican People's Party proposal for the group...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0141par0209	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit03spe0140par0210	I'm going to put it to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... there's a disagreement between the clerks, let's have an electronic vote. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0140par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. During the vote of the Republican People's Party group, the decision was not enough. I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. Congressmans, now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday/12/2016 (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. The agenda's Law Bills and Proposals and Other Actions From Commissions (ECTs) shall be placed in the second place of the Law Bill 443, and the order of other tasks shall be considered according to this; On Tuesday (February 20th 2016) and Tuesday (February 28, 2017), Tuesday (February 28, 2017), and Wednesday (February 28, 2017), the meeting of oral questions and other audit issues is 24 p.m. on the agenda's part of the draft and proposals and other tasks from the Commissions, and again on Tuesdays, Wednesday, and Thursday. To continue his work until 00; It has been suggested that Law Bill 443 be considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code and that its divisions be in the accompanying table. The Justice and Development Party will speak first in favour of the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0142par0018	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. As the group begins our proposal, I ask God's mercy on our brave martyrs in Beşiktas and Kayseri, and wish our wounded veterans well. With our group proposal, on Tuesdays 15:00-24 until February 28, 2017. 00 -- no verbal questions, by the way -- 2:00-24 on Wednesdays and Thursdays. We recommend running the General Assembly between 00 hours. Again, with our group proposal, we're taking the bill for the 15-point free zones to the second place on the agenda, in order of 443 rows, in two sections, and that's how we brought it to the General Assembly as a group proposal. I present to you the compliments of the General Assembly, and I salute you all again with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0143par0024	Thank you, Mr. Can. The Justice and Development Party will speak first against the group's proposal, Mr. Erhan. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0144par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we are now discussing the group proposal brought by the Justice and Development Party. Of course, we've mentioned this a couple of times before -- it's been happening all the time -- we're seeing another lack of plans, a lack of programming, basically. I mean, there's no vision. There are programs being made without looking ahead, and then every time, we have to talk about them almost every week. It's an inefficiency in itself. I mean, we need to run this Parliament more efficiently. Now, the nations are planning a hundred years, they're doing programs for over a hundred years, they're putting together a strategy. The Justice and Development Party doesn't have a hundred years after a week, let alone a sense of government and a sense of running Parliament. Now, the priority brought up by this group proposal will be to be changed tomorrow because there's a bag of laws in the Plan and Budget Commission, and the bag law is probably going to come back in two days so we can get it in front of this free zone law. I mean, look, we spend 40 minutes on this every time. So this Parliament, we've given up a week -- we've given up a century, we've given up three years, we've given up five years -- there's a Parliament that doesn't know what it's going to see in ten days, and that's what makes Parliament, of course, the ruling party. Now, we really need to put an end to this inefficiency. Now, in fact, this is how the country is run on everything, so we're having these problems in this country, and we need to see this. Now, we have the patent law, the law on testing property. We don't have any reserves for this law, we wish the law would come out as soon as possible, so let's say we think about it once, but of course there are issues that need to be discussed, they need to be discussed; it needs to be discussed. Now, what we really want from the government, what we expect is that there are some reforms in the economy, especially in terms of economics -- in terms of today's issues -- that the country needs to be brought here, some of the laws need to be brought here, some of them need to be brought here. We expect the government to bring these. Otherwise, we have no objection to this bill of testing property brought in, but there's no reform here, and there's really not much to solve a problem here, so here's a law in which different laws add up a number of different, disorganized issues. So with plans to solve the country's problems, to solve the country's structural problems, the government needs to come to this House. We're handing out a blank check, look, we're saying bring them in and we'll support them. We have work to do on taxes, we say that there has to be a pay tax in this country, we say that things to do to increase efficiency in this country need to be done, we say that the public spending system needs to be disciplined, we say it needs to be rationalized, we say tax charges need to be rearranged. As far as the latest data has been released, the country has no problems, no savings problems. So, come on, let's all reduce the taxes on this consumption, reduce the taxes on the poor. That's what the Justice and Development Party Assembly wants to run with the law of the day when it should be done, and that's what's so wrong. Now, the bag... the bag will be brought, here, sir, it has to be here by New Year's Eve. Isn't it our right to ask that question? I mean, is that how government works? There are things here that are a year in advance, things that need to be done at the end of the year; they are not done; they are not done, they are not done, they are not done, they are not to be able to talk to each other in an unproductive way; here, sir, it is not appropriate for this Parliament to do business with threats, threats, blackmail, and blackmail. We need to run this Parliament more efficiently, friends, and it's no use working too late at night in this country, see, I'll tell you that. Why not? Because when it's worked up to two or three of the night, and a couple of days in a row, people get nervous, and there's chaos, and there's chaos, and believe me, what's going on in this Parliament is affecting the citizens, and it's affecting our people. So, we have to be very careful here, with a healthy mind, we have to conduct the work in a healthy way. Now, friends, I'd like to share a little bit of my opinion on political issues on the agenda. Indeed, our country is going through a very difficult time. You know, we say that all the time, and it's never been this hard. Our country is under siege of terror. So, on the one hand, PKK terrorism, on the other hand, ISISi, on the other hand, the situation we're in in, on the other hand, the situation we're in in in Syria, and there's an assassination against the Russian Ambassador as of last night -- we've delivered our concessions to the Russian people and family -- so Turkey is under siege with all its fronts. Turkey's hand is being weakened, Turkey's reputation is being undermined, it's being cornered. At global and regional levels, Turkey is at risk of losing serious positions. Seeing all of this... in fact, the country needs unity, unity, the country needs to be governed from a more proper, strategic perspective, and we expect that from the government. On the other hand, we invite our citizens from here to common sense, we have to be discreet. There are provocators, they're out there, they're doing some work, they're trying to take advantage of our citizen's pain, and we're not supposed to tolerate them at all. The streets are wanted to mix, some want to do what they can't in the mountains in cities. The Turkish nation, our beloved nation, shouldn't be in this game. Everyone, our political parties in parliament, all of our NGOs, everyone in this country, must be very responsible in that sense. I've just said, at the beginning, at the opening: our Nationalist Movement Party has nothing to do with this party building, sir, being stoned, or whatever, or whatever, or even if the flag hung there is our flag, it has nothing to do with us. We invite our party members to be very careful about this, and we do it all the time. But, of course, the government has some work to do in order to succeed in the fight against terrorism. For once, what the government has to do before anyone else is sit down and do the accounting. Now, in these difficult days, we used to say, you know, you made these mistakes in the process of betrayal, that happened to the country, that you made these mistakes in foreign policy, that's what happened. We don't want to talk about them too much. But just because we don't talk about it doesn't mean you're doing the right thing around here. Therefore, in order not to make the same mistakes, the government can take the head of both hands and sit down and manage this country better, no matter where it makes a mistake, no matter how it does it after that; it needs to be very careful about these matters, and it needs to do an accounting of these issues. A serious analysis of these needs to be done, and as long as this isn't done, we can't get out of trouble in this country. Because he repeats the same mistakes. Please see the mistakes made without expecting opposition parties to say them, and try to correct them, and they will not be made again. Now, of course, the fight against terrorism needs a proper strategy, which Mehmet Günal Bey has just expressed in his speech, and I'm not going in there. But we see that there's a weakness of intelligence in all of this, and we need to see it. I mean, our intelligence agencies need to work much better, much healthier. I'm afraid, after everything that's happened, it doesn't help anyone. Therefore, the measures must be taken on time, and the government must be very careful. And all of us need to avoid actions that would undermine our unity and unity. In this context, for example, we've been under serious pressure, especially recently. What is it? Here, our state is fighting with the government. We've already made it very clear that we support this struggle as a nationalist movement party. But we shouldn't create victims in this struggle, the human, our own human... look, this geography, this land, this land, this nation's children, this nation's mothers... For example, in this Kars Sarıkamis, there is a matter of special sergeants. The experts here, there, the Brigade Commander there, were a revolutionary, coupist commander - somehow there is a PKK terrorist act. He downloads them to Sarıkamiş. Now, later on, all of this... of course, it seems that he was involved in a coup attempt, but there are serious messages coming to us that all of the sergeants here are under arrest, even though no one else is touching the gun. Now, this needs to be looked at, so here, let me take the risk, let me keep it. Here, sir, let me not touch this, or they'll burn me. If hundreds of people are actually lying around in the middle of nowhere, look, their families, their children, their fiancés -- most of them engaged, of course, because they're young children -- they're all at risk of being offended by this country, this nation -- let's not overwrought them out, the spirit of unity, the spirit of unity. So whatever it is... we don't say that these are the ones who are guilty, let them be released. But let these files be opened, let them be looked at, whatever the matter is. Other cities have been released in similar circumstances. Why aren't the kids released here, why are they still under arrest? So these issues, they seem to be small, they seem to be individual issues, but they build up, and they undermine the spirit of unity and unity in our country. I wanted to warn the authorities about that, too. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0145par0043	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Hasan Basri Kurt, MP of Samsun, will speak in favour of the Justice and Development Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0146par0047	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from our AK PARTY group in favor of an offer involving working hours and a working plan. I salute you all. As it is known, during the 1st time on our agenda, we would like to bring the Bill of the Free Zones Law to the 2nd place, and the Parliament has 24 hours this week. Our goal is to do this work by limiting it to 100. Our Parliament's busy schedule has been clear so far. Hopefully, from now on, along with this Testial Property Law, we will have a collective industrial property law. Hopefully, we'd like to finish this this week and continue with the law on free zones. I salute all of us.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0147par0052	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. The Justice and Development Party will finally speak against the group's proposal, Mr. Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt. Here you go, Mr. Bozkurt.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0148par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. The Justice and Development Party's group proposal regulates the working hours of our Parliament. 3:00-24 on Tuesdays. 00, other days, 2:00-24. Let's work between 00 hours. Of course, let's work, so while our country is like this, I honestly think it's not right for this House to take a minute off. So, as much as I've taken a stand against you, I think of this work as my fellow Justice and Development Party brothers. Let's not even have Christmas vacations. I mean, the country has turned into a pool of blood; 44 of them have been killed in Istanbul Dolmabahçe, 14 of our children in Kayseri. For the first time in many years, a diplomatic mission head was assassinated in our country, and by a policeman, what's our vacation? But see what? I mean, really, what are we supposed to be working overtime for? Remember, in July 2015, our group speakers from this bench, come and investigate this terror." He said, but with the AKP and the MHP vote, unfortunately, our motion was rejected. When Mr. Vice President announced today that I would make this speech, I, look, I asked my friend to make a list of all the massacres from June 5, 2015 - 33 massacres... June 5, 2015, we lost five people in the bomb attack at HDP Diyarbakır rally, over 400 wounded. The last attack, meaning total massacre -- the December 17th Kayseri attack, which was three days ago, where our 14 soldiers were killed, and 56 wounded. We've got over 800 martyrs, and this Parliament does not discuss such an important event that is so vital, so painful, that it really tears us all up. No, sir, let's discuss the Bill of Free Zones.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0149par0061	We'll get it done in a day, we'll get it done in a day.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0148par0062	Not that the free zone is irrelevant, of course it's important. But from our lost children, from our broken policemen, which arm belongs to which body, but from the DNA test, I don't think we should be more important than those martyrs we've been able to identify. But this Congress, we often say it as a tribute, the Veterans Assembly. What is it, sir? For the second time on the night of July 15th, this Veteran Assembly -- indeed -- is not discussing the problems of real veterans, martyrs. We've just received a motion to investigate the House. HDP group proposal: ▪ Bomb attack in Kayseri....... Ret. CHP group proposal: ▪ External policy and terrorist incidents...... Ret. Now, this group proposal is accepted. Do what? Let's work Tuesdays between 3:00 and 4:00. Let's get to work. Now, friends, we live in such a country that we are all people of this country. I didn't really understand what we couldn't share during my one-and-a-half-year surrogacy. Every day, five hours, six hours here, Mr. Group Vice Presidents respond to each other. Well, I've just been able to catch up with the TV because my beloved AKP spokesman shorted his words, so I can greet my constituents, thanks to my brother, but we can't talk about anything sadra healing, friends, let's face it. Look, this nation is sending 550 deputies here, and what we're talking about is not about the real problem of the country. Now, of course, I'm an opposition MP, and I find there's no way to justify the leadership of the Justice and Development Party -- okay -- I can say that. I understand that, but, dear friends, I'm telling you, our country is bleeding, this country is bleeding. How can the House of a country that lost over a thousand citizens in 33 bombings not work until morning to discuss the causes and proposals for solutions of this terror? There's no way to figure that out. And, every night, in front of the TV screen, I honestly tell you, I can't help but put things on that TV and not throw things away. A number of staffed academics and staffed journalists on television... Dear brothers of the AKP, with all due respect, which of you has the right to say that you love this country more than I do, and that you work harder for this country than I do? Who has the right to say that God is more dear than me? But we're looking at TVs, and almost every day, there are men who are doing their best to demonize the Republican People's Party, and they're talking non-stop. Look, dear friends, in case you like it, let me tell you something about Malcolm X.: If you don't pay attention, the media can make you hate the oppressed, but love the cruel." he says. Believe me, it could be. I mean, you can't get anywhere with a lie. I'll tell you one more thing, this is from Victor Hugo, who says: "A lie is an intelligence." For honesty, courage is enough. If your intelligence is not enough, try to lie, use courage, and be honest, it is cheaper. Dear friends, look, here's my dear colleague, my doctor's brother, who just said: "If we could be democrats... I'm talking about Fakibaba. At the same time, we were chief of medicine, and I was in Iconium, and he was in Urbana. For the same country, for this country, we've both worked until morning to provide health care for people in our hospitals. Okay, let's be Democrats. How are we gonna be Democrats, guys? You've brought a motion -- now there's a bar fight in the Parliamentary Constitutional Commission -- you're trying to pass it on as soon as possible. What are you bringing with you? You're destroying this House, my friends. Believe me, this House is being made into a committee that will do no good with this motion. With this motion, this House is being stripped of its control authority. With this motion, this House is almost stripped of its authority to make law. You have defined a president in this motion, that immediately after the president has been accepted, he will redesign the state with decrees in six months, and the day after this motion is adopted, he will be president of your next party. Then, we'll go to the election -- you're making an appointment on November 3rd -- your current President, the President, who should be neutral according to today's Constitution, on August 10th of 2014, will wear a jacket to promote the presidency as president, wear the other jacket as president, promote election propaganda as AKP President; for that, he'll be under covert grant, will be under the administration of the AKP Treasury assistance, and then you'll say: "We've chosen the President by this much. If this is the right thing, it's not the right thing to do." Withdraw this motion. Look, honestly, friends of the AKP, I'm a doctor, I read this as a doctor, I got goose bumps. If any of you are a lawyer, and you read this motion on your conscience, saying that democracy will live in this country, maybe God won't let me live, but you're all very young people, my daughter, my son's age, you'll live and you'll see, you're doing a great evil to this country. Believe me, there's no democracy in this motion of yours. With this, you can only slaughter democracy and form a dictatorship. But, look, I'm telling you again: neither Recep Tayyip Erdogan nor our other presidents, nor other prime ministers, nor anyone else, nor traitors, but whatever happens, uncontrollably power is always harmful, my friends. Don't do this. There's no power without supervision. You've brought 400 MPs -- what, sir -- with the right to question. With this, you may be able to fool those who chase every candy he sees like you, but you can't fool the world. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0150par0071	Thank you, Mr. Bozkurt. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Congressmans, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and processed and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/81) I demand that the main Law Proposal (Law) be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu will speak as the bidder. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0151par0083	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I would like to extend my condolences to Mr. Andrey Karlov, the ambassador of Russia, who died in a despicable attack last night, to his relatives, family, and all the people of Russia. Dear friends, we've been fighting a lot of laws here, last semester, and now we're arguing. This bill is also important. If you look at the motive, it's a need. That need is: there are operations outside Turkey's land borders -- not true to me -- there are rocket launchers coming from there to Turkey, and there are deaths. The victims of those deaths, the wounded, unfortunately, are currently not benefiting from the provisions of Law 3713 and the provisions of Law 5233. With the arrangement I propose, I suggest that these victims take advantage of the same opportunities in these laws. But I know I'm offering it to you in vain. This is Parliament, it has to be open to the opposition's views. I've been discussing about 40 things here for the past term, but you haven't said yes to one of them. But in this period, especially after these operations in Syria, Iraq, I wish this proposal would be brought up, but I also know that the majority of the Justice and Development Party doesn't care because the agenda of the opposition has never been your agenda. Democracy, however, can only be strengthened and improved by the fact that the majority party is open to these suggestions from the opposition. You have no such agenda. What's your agenda, dear friends? Turkey's agenda is terrorism, Turkey's agenda is the presidency. What have you tried to do, dear friends, in the last 14 years and especially in the last six or seven years? You have stated that you will always try to protect Turkey's peace and security by targeting the next step. What do I mean? For example, the 2010 referendum. Then what did you say? If this referendum passes, Turkey will have peace and democracy." You said. It's okay. So what happened? Turkey has peace and democracy? No. In fact, Turkey has fallen into chaos and chaos, the structure of the HSYK has changed, and with the change of the constitution, then the democracy and peace will come. You are changing the Constitution you call it. What happened? I'll give you a close-up: didn't he say that on June 7th, the MPs were here? Turkey chose chaos. Didn't we go to terrorist attacks on November 1st, on July 20th, on July 21st, at Ceylanpınar, on October 10th, at the station and other attacks to destabilise the situation? What happened? Stability on November 1st? On the contrary, there was no stability, more chaos, even chaos in the Justice and Development Party, the Prime Minister changed, you had to hold a convention, and now you're here. What do you say today? You're saying that if Turkey doesn't pass the presidency, Turkey can't survive. Why do we need this presidency or this dictatorship or this kingdom? We don't want it for ourselves; Turkey's situation, Middle Eastern geography, the world's situation cannot be managed with this Parliament. It needs to be swifter, it needs to be the only picker, it needs to be the only man, so that we can fight the enemies we created inside and out. Now you're ignoring the results of November 1st, and you're making the president a guarantee of peace and democracy in Turkey. Dear friends, look, we're all congressmen, we'll cross these lines, and maybe we won't be again, but this legacy of Parliament, this burden that this Parliament will leave, especially in the matter of violence and conflict, will inherit the burden of terror to our children, and they will ask all of us. I'm sorry, I'm writing my own history here, my own history on this stand. When I looked at the reports, what did I say, and what did you guys say to me, it's all in the transcripts. My grandkids will take care of it, my party will take care of it, but they'll also take care of you. So, these reports are very important. If we really have a conscience, if we really want to act with our minds, we have to put our emotions aside, abandon our political choices, and get Turkey out of this chaos, out of this conflict environment. His place is this Parliament, and he wants you to listen to us. For once, act on the possibility that we may not be able to tell the truth, for once. Come on, I'm done with this law. So I guess I didn't bring a bad law, so raise a hand, say yes, surprise us, what's going to happen? For once, surprise us, raise your hand. We're going to the commission anyway. See, we also appreciated a proposal from the opposition. The world can't end, but democracy can. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0152par0090	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. On behalf of an MP, Mr. Mahmut Tanal of Istanbul will speak. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0153par0094	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Really, Mr. Sezgin Bey, we have to thank Mr. Sezgin because this law... is given to our citizens who have been harmed by terrorism under Act 5233, but the state is not paying compensation to our citizens who have come from Syria, who have been injured by bombs and long-barreled weapons and who have been threatened by life and property safety. Law 5233 here says that if it is harmed without its own defect, it must be paid in accordance with the social risk principle of the state and according to the social justice of the state. This is also a amendment in accordance with the 5th Article of our Constitution and Article 17th, and therefore I urge you to support it. Dear friends, two days before this, I kept a watch in the Hecinler village of Düzce province, under the snow, with our citizens guarding their village. Düzce is being dumped in the middle of the Hecinler village of Düzce, which is 200 metres from the Düzce district and all the solid waste of our counties, and it's said that the Düzce City has been spending 16 trillion on the dump site, according to its own sources, but what action is there in the Düzce province of Düzce about this solid waste dump? One cantar has been placed, and one flat area has been opened, and the rough waste of Düzce Province and all its counties is thrown into that empty space, and a cylinder is passed over it, and a warehouse is built because it's in the shape of a valley below, and all the toxic waste is built, and after it goes into that warehouse, it gets mixed up with toxic waters. Now, as people can't have picnics with Melen Tea in the summer and spring, so no Melen Tea is allowed in very hot weather. Why is it forbidden? BlSİ says: I carry the water of this Melen Tea as drinking water to Istanbul, where Melen Tea should not be soiled. • However, because the dirty waste of Düzce City leaked into Melen Tea, toxic waters flowed to Melen Tea, and because of Melen Tea, indeed, the health of our agricultural citizens in that region is affected, and the health of the Istanbulans is being fed to and played, and the health of the people of Istanbuls is being threatened, and the health is being played. Formerly, our citizens of the village, Melen, have filed a lawsuit against the CED report against the law, the Constitution, international contracts, the Environmental Law, and its case has been accepted in the administration court. The administration, Düzce Municipality, has moved this to the State Department, the CED report has been cancelled by the District Attorney's Office, where the garbage must not be taken out, otherwise the right to life and health of the people here will be threatened. This is not in accordance with the law. It has been said, and this decision has been determined at that time, and there have been complaints, and there have been complaints, and there have been seals, and there have been no wastes, and there have been no wastes since nine months. However, for nine days, whatever wisdom has happened, they have received a new CED report again and again. They've received the CED report from a creek bed before, and now it's 15 miles away -- and the esteemed Minister is laughing at me, and he's laughing, of course, Congresswoman -- and there's a change in paperwork, and there's no physical change. They cheated against the law, got a new report, and the citizen filed a mistrial against it, but as a result, the trash is being dumped there. Mr. Secretary supports me, agrees with me, but no one can afford the mayor. What did the President say? All right, friend, then the Hecin are guarding your village. I call upon the governor of Düzce: Don't bring the citizens against the police, and the gendarmes against them. The mayor here is being rude, playful, illegal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The mayor has four vice presidents; three of the four are relatives, not one of his relatives.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0154par0103	Mr. Tanal, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0153par0104	I'm ending it, my dear President. There are 18 heads of apartments, the ones with the highest budget, their own relatives again. I mean, let the members of the Justice and Development Party... friends, merits are fucked up, and they've been passed over like a cylinder.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0154par0106	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0153par0107	He's taken care of his friend, his wife, his friend.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0155par0108	Run from there, run from there.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0154par0109	Mr. Tanal, you're out of time.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0153par0110	I'm finishing, I'm sorry, Osman Bey said something.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0154par0111	Okay, you're out of time, too.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0153par0112	Here you are, Osman Bey.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0156par0113	Osman Bey thanks you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0154par0114	Then you can talk side by side.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0153par0115	Okay. I mean, I don't have anything personal, my dear President, I speak of the problems of the people.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0154par0117	I know, but if Osman Bey said something, you can chat with him, not on the stand, because you're out of time.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0157par0118	Mr. Mahmut, there's also Republican People's Party Düzce, which is...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0153par0119	Sir, I mean, maybe there's something wrong with Osman. If there's a Republican People's Party, it'll take care of the problem. That's why I said it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0158par0120	Over there, in the back.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0159par0121	Okay, you can talk together.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0153par0122	I get it.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0159par0123	Here, I want you to talk to each other.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0153par0124	I'm not in the same balance as Osman Bey, so I'm saying it.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0159par0125	Mr. Tanal, your time is up, everyone is equal here, please...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0160par0126	If there's CHP, there's Düzce.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0153par0127	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit04spe0159par0129	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm moving on to the "choice" part of the agenda. Antalya MP Mehmet Günal has been nominated for a membership in the National Movement Party Group, which is available in the Foreign Commission. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. He has been nominated for a member of the Republican People's Party Group, which is vacant in the Plan and Budget Commission. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a 40-minute break from your merger.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0159par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We begin talks with the first ranking Commission for Information and Technology Report on the Test Property Act and Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, and Information and Technology. 1-Sunei Property Law Bill (1/699) and Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report (S. Number 341) [[x]] The commission is here. The government is here. The commission report was printed and distributed by 341 rows. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, this bill will be considered as the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On top of the entire bill, Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0161par0013	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a vow to present the views of the National Movement Party Group on the overall draft of the Sunei Property Law, 341 rows under discussion. I salute the grand jury. Before we go to general, I would especially like to say that we've been visited by NGOs on the economy, and they've made some attempts to get this bill out of the way. In his right, the opposition was very positive when the bill was discussed in the Commission, but the government insisted on not making any changes, despite the fact that there were agreements in general, so the government did not want to change some of the arrangements. In fact, during the meeting of this bill in the Commission, the government had to take a leave of absence from the Commission because of its lack of attendance here, and we said: "We are saying this, we are saying this seriously, you go, we will complete the deficit, this will be out of the Commission as soon as possible. I remember telling Mr. Minister and Mr. Commissioner as I told him yesterday. I mean, if there really was such an urgent need, he'd be here by now, and something like this has come up.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0162par0016	Mr. Secretary has just arrived. Say that again.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0161par0017	Mr. Secretary, welcome. Now, Mr. Minister, the NGOs who came to us about the economy have told us that, hey, this isn't going to solve anything, we're combining the laws of the law, we're putting together a number of things that are going to get in trouble. Don't take it personally, I'm just saying it's not you. Now, this isn't going to cure anything, all this trouble, but let's put this in, let's get it out, and let's get some morale for the businessmen in this environment. I mean, we're not going to stop it, we're going to support it. But there were some things we were working on, and what did we want them to be? We wanted to see him, but he didn't make them... However, I said to the leaders of these NGOs and to the representatives they sent us: When this bill was being discussed in the commission, you sent us some demands, you sent us your demands, and we proposed it there, and we talked about it. This AKP didn't do anything you said, it really didn't. We brought their motions, and there were even those who accused us of being such a fan of foreign capital and all that. Mr. Secretary, then. But, no, I mean, seriously, these guys are the leaders of NGOs -- I don't want to name them, and there's no harm in giving them, but -- they want something, so they want to find a moral. You're the Minister of Industry, and I'm sure we'll do it together, and we'll do it together, and we'll do it together, but we'll really do the legislation in business, and the bureaucratic friends are in charge of that institution, and they want to do something in order, and they don't want anything that's passed in the law. I want to do a general assessment, first of all, I want to do a little bit of industry here. If I'm lacking in detection, if I'm wrong, we're sorry, but we need to make some identification. For one thing, it's where there's chronic problems in the industry. There are increasing geopolitical risks, lost export markets. Kur fluctuations also reduce production, exports and imports from mines to energy, textiles to construction, food to iron steel production industry in all sectors except automotive. In essence, the production industry in Turkey has been pushed into the background, as a result of economic policies in Turkey, while the runt-oriented construction, real estate sector, retailing, service sector has been encouraged. Now, I want to make a point here, Mr. Minister: You walk as ministers, and let the president of TOKI walk from here; all businessmen and citizens go after him, and they don't go after you, because the cut you took from the industry, where did the share of the industry go in the national income that the industry lost? He went to the building, went to the condo. So, what do people see there? They see a future there. They'd come here if they saw them coming here, they'd be hanging around behind the Cabinet. I see there's more interest in it, and I look at the newspapers, the same way. The manufacturing industry is tightening my employment. In 2015, production industry, exports, imports were reduced, capacity use rate around 75%. The manufacturing industry is also contracting. A significant part of the major sectors in Turkish industry has become highly dependent on importing and investment goods. It's lowering the value of exports in our country. As a matter of fact, exports have been negative for two years. There's an internal processing regime here: I've been Assistant Undersecretary of Foreign Trade, and he's the Ministry, and we can't get out of it. This is where your industry sinks. Even though I'm an Assistant Undersecretary of Foreign Trade... which means it's not illegal, it's open information, but we can't get it. At the Ministry of Customs and Trade, this court has entered their reports, and a very important part of it is untraceable. Please stay on top of it, there's something very troubling about the manufacturing industry. Let's take a look at this. I've filed a research motion. Mr. President of the Group, you know about this, it's a real mess here. You need to take a look at this, take a look at it. I don't know why they don't reveal it. Turkey's industry became increasingly dependent on imports, and production industry exceeded 80 per cent of total imports in 2015. From another point of view, you're basically importing $80 to produce 100 units in the manufacturing industry. This is said by the heads of NGOs close to power, and not just by us. This unsustainable picture for Turkey is a major obstacle to accessing the production structure that we need in the industry. The share of our industrialist's total assets is important - it was 52, 53 per cent in 2002, it was 57 per cent in 2014, we passed 2015, it rose to 60.1 per cent. Now, this is a disaster, it's getting worse. The increased risk of courtship in the balance sheets increases uncertainty for the real cut, makes it open to external shocks. Look, Denizli is an industrialist, --friends know, Navy lawmakers, I don't give names -- I can't get a loan from the bank, I'm not blocked, but there's a need, I'm going to produce and sell; he won't give it; I went to the bank manager's brother, and I've worked with this bank's branch for 30 years. I've never been to this branch. It's either my accounting manager or my finance manager. And you bring me, and I'm happy to see you, but see what we've become. There's no exaggeration when I say it. I mean, it's clear enough, you have some efforts, but it doesn't solve the problem. In recent years, the industrialist has struggled to cover the damage caused by both interest and increased courtship. The difference between the assets of firms outside the financial sector and their obligations, so the net exchange position deficit, $6.5 billion in 2002, $195.9 billion in May of 2016. Increased foreign currency has negatively affected the balance sheets. Price hikes from the tender in the imported entry increase product costs, creating pressure to increase prices inside, while competition in the outside market is becoming difficult. Industrial employment has declined 42,000 people in 2015, where national revenues have grown by 4%. Again, as of July 2016, according to the same month of the previous year, industrial employment has decreased by 82,000 people. The Industrial Production Index averages 2015, and there is a limited increase in industrial production, such as 3.2 per year. The decline in the industry's share, which has recently been heavy in the Turkish economy, points out. In 2009, the 20 per cent of the manufacturing industry is reduced to 15.2 per cent, which is around 15 per cent today, so nothing has changed. In 2011-2014, the Ministry of Industry has prepared an Industrial Strategy Document of Turkey, said, "We will increase production of this in the middle and high-tech sectors," and said, "We will increase its share in exports." The 2015-2018 Industrial Strategy Document is similar, but unfortunately, unlike these goals, there is no progress in production of high-tech and high-velocity goods; on the contrary, there has been decline. In exports, according to 2002 -- AKP loves it very much -- there is a setback, and there are similar things in production. Now, let's put this aside. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, our country was ranked the 55th in the World Competitiveness Index in 2016, and we were ranked the 56th in 2016, and we were ranked the 56th in 2014. We're in the 60th place in terms of technological competence. Looking here, we're in a serious decline in the world, really, in terms of competitiveness. All of this, in fact, suggests that in order to gain competitiveness in science, technology and industry, a strategic approach to a new political economy is needed. Now, the industrial community fueled money - fuel, power and knowledge in the information society. The world is now full of hard work, dense materials, dense energy, dense knowledge. RD, patents, indicators on high-tech sectors suggest that information-based production is not at the target level of competition. Also, there is a high energy density in the manufacturing industry, which is defined as energy consumption per industrial added value. The regional distribution of the manufacturing industry continues to be unstable, with 50 per cent still in the Marmara region. It's a terrible thing, you've dumped it somewhere, God forbid... the regional priorities of the investment incentive system have been, unfortunately, neutralized by recent arrangements. There's a distinct efficiency difference between large-scale companies and small-scale companies in the manufacturing industry. Now, anyway, there's no tax system. Last time I told you, you're bringing a bag. I told you here last time, the AKP will soon give my multiple staff to any tax office. What are they gonna do? We'll throw out the presidents of the AKP. They'll collect this much, you'll give this much. There's no need for law or proportion or Tax Law. Of course they're going... I told the Ministry of Industry budget here last year: this is the war budget. Of course, they thought differently then. Mr. Secretary is gone, seated on the Ministry of War. We ran into each other here last time, and we made a joke, and that's what's going on. We said that. Mr. Secretary, 2.5 million companies and 11 million people are asked for a record pardon, and today it's in the papers. This is what the country's become, what are we going to fix? Here, he jumped out of the press conference to prepare this for our Minister of Customs and Trade. I'm going to say a few things about him, too. There's also a case of embezzlement disturbance in the record pardon -- it's in today's papers. Change the policy on embezzlement. How can I give you a loan? He says. And then there's the problem. Got to take a look at this. Look, you went to Denizli, the minister of the trade, Denizli. The chairman of the Marine Industry Chamber says: ▪ The Kececi, who has long noted that the investor has been withdrawing from the investment, needs to do a study on the construction of the requisite AVM, which is moving away from the investment. First of all, we're working for the investor, which has been established 25 years ago, whose infrastructure is finished and is strategically available for all investments. He says -- the AKP has been here for fifteen years -- and we're working for the investor in the 900,000 square meters of the place that appears on the Bank of Quads. He says you've seen it. You've seen it. I don't know where these bank loans go, but something happened to me today, for the record. Someone called me on the phone today, I picked up the phone in Istanbul, and he said, "I'm going to see Emin Haluk Ayhan." I said, "It's me." He said you owe 15 cents from your credit account. I said, OK. He said, "When are you going to pay?" I said I'll pay it today. Now, banks really follow his money this well. So, why is it so exposed? He's after 15 cents... come on, he's got God, and he's got debt, and I thank the officer, the whole world. When you look at it, look here, these things also develop. Now, for example, today, the deposit is very difficult, and everyone's turned to the dwelling, turned to the apartment, turned to other things, and there's a lot of trouble, and they need to be fixed. Our town was an exporter, an industrialist, and was afflicted with hardship. Before I talked about it today, I opened it to the President of the Industrial Chamber, and I asked him, "Can I hurt you?" He's funny, and we've already told him that, and he's in the paper. Now, indeed, people are troubled. See what he says: the state should review its investment incentives, give our investor the right investments, and give them the right price. Your ministry was trying to build a factory building last year, not a factory, but a factory building. Why? I just told you, toki... he's gonna do something like toki. So was the Bank of Cities; and he tried to do the work of the TOKI. There is trouble there, too. This is all going on with problems. Now, look, Mr. Minister, he says that despite all our efforts so far, we haven't been able to get the right amount of interest in commercial banks under proper conditions for investment. The AKP has been here for 15 years. Today, our country's most important problem is the activation of exports and investment environments, producing high-income products. Today, the average price of exports is still 2 dollars. All of this suggests that there's an area of distress. Now, we're trying to get people to change the dollar they don't have, aren't we? I've been talking about the dollar here, the loans, and his field is a little different. What happened to these impounded companies? You've appointed trustees. The trustees are entwined in laps, fist-to-hands. They got up, where did they go? They're police stations, physical. I said that here. Now, what we're doing... 124 percent of the currency deposit increased from 2012 to a month or two, but the TL deposit has increased by 40 percent. Who provided this insecurities? Who runs this country? We need to fix this. So, Minister, indeed, as the industrialists say, we will support it, not prevent it. There are things here that we're having second thoughts about, we'll say them, we'll talk to you when the stuff comes in, but let's do something, we'll put in a proper strategy. I trust you. You are a member of the Turkish nation, a member of the Turkish National Assembly in the Republic of Turkey. Why can't we do this? Is the world so much better than us? Let's do these, let's find out. Look, the Central Bank says to direct its resources into investment. We put it in our schedule, we put it in our election statement, we put it everywhere, so the Central Bank can lower interest. Look how persistent they are today. There are cartoons like that, they've got the president of the Central Bank on the railroad, the train's coming, it's passing. Let's jump out of these. In unity in this country, let's settle this once and for all. Let's make this a start. I wish you all the best. With this bill under law, I pray to God to bring blessings to the land. I mean, we don't even have time to talk about the bill, but if we didn't, we wouldn't be comfortable. I thank you again. I pay my respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0163par0046	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0164par0050	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the Sunei Property Legislature Bill. I salute your sentence. Before we start talking about this, I'd like to point out three important things. First: Today, Turkey is in the psychology of a country with serious security risks, where political and social polarization has become very widespread; it has a very serious problem of insecurity; it is concerned about tomorrow. We need to get through this immediately. If the Russian Ambassador is being massacred in our capital, we need to understand how serious this is. I offer God's mercy to the ambassador, my condolences to his family and to his country. The arrest of our co-Chairs and 10 MPs from their legislative activities, their freedom limited, will be a subject to our recent history as a process of shame for our democracy, and it will take place as a black page. I also condemn the attacks against the buildings of our party. Our Parliament must find a solution to this process. There's nothing acceptable about this process. Dear lawmakers, the judge, the prosecutor, and the ongoing judicial operations must be giving us important clues to these arrest procedures. You know very well that most of the proceedings and indictments against our MPs have been prepared by community prosecutors who have been relieved of duty. Therefore, it is our duty to grasp and decide the process correctly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's no problem we can't solve together. No one can declare themselves more patriotic, patriotic. No one has such scales in their hands. In our common land, we must spread the awareness that it is necessary to live together on the basis of equal citizenship. In our common country, we need to understand the struggle to become a democratic nation, the effort to build a democratic republic. It is only natural that every member of parliament who serves in this parliament, who carries on the will of the people, participates in the construction of an advanced democracy in our country for a better habitable country. And the second thing I'd like to remind you again about a massacre thirty-eight years ago. Dear lawmakers, thirty-eight years ago, there was a massacre in Marashan from December 19th until the evening of December 25th in our country. The number of citizens who were officially identified and murdered in this massacre was 111. Hundreds of people were injured, including CHP, Turkey's Labour Party, Turkey's Communist Party, TÖB-DER, Police Officers Solidarity Association - 210 homes and 70 businesses, including the POL-DER buildings and health department - were burned down and destroyed. After the massacre, thousands of Flames left Kahramanmarash as if he had fled. The CHP MP Oguz Suğütlü said on this stand that what happened in Kahramanmarash was nothing but open genocide, that 80 per cent of Alevi's population had left the city. Thirty-eight years have passed since the events in Marash, where a classic scenario was clearly planned and staged, and the fact that they were still unlighted and that most of the leading figures in the Maras massacre have even increased the suffering of being rewarded in the later stages of politics and the state. Unfortunately, it upsets the Alekis that the defendant of the number one massacre entered Parliament as a member of parliament in 1991. In the case of 804 defendants, 379 people were acquitted and the other defendants were released with minor punishments for the size of the massacre. The crimes of killing hundreds of people after the incident, the injuries of thousands of people, the destruction of workplaces and homes have been unpunished. Every person who lives in our country sees Turkey's dark past and the necessity of confronting it today in the interest of the Maraş massacre, and wants this process to be completed in terms of confrontation. For a future that will not be repeated, I would like to present to you every year the Memorial of the Maraş massacre, the Memorial of a massacre on Maras, and the names of all our citizens who have been found dead in this monument, the punishment of their murderers, as a common expectation of the Aleki community and all the sensitive parts. Another third issue: Precious lawmakers, a decision has been issued from the Aksaray Heavy Penal Court in Ankara on June 1, 2013 in connection with the killing of Ethhem Sarısüluk (Ethhem Sarısuluk) during the Trip Park activities in Kızılay Square (Kızılay Square). The court has sentenced the police officer Ahmet Şahbaz to one year and four months and twenty days in prison. He turned this sentence into a $10,100 fine. That's right, that's law, that's what our country values. Is this the penalty for knowingly slaughtering a man, lawmakers? Of course not, and so do you. This wound, which bleeds their consciences, will not be closed like this. We'll follow the process. We give our word to comrade Ethem, to Ethhem life. Dear lawmakers, the Bill of Sunei Property covers regulations on brands, patents and useful models, geographical signs, design and traditional product names that haven't been released in years. Generally, we see that the materials have been compromised, but unfortunately we haven't seen much of this compromise in the preparation process. I'm afraid the opposition has not been included in the preparation process for nearly a year. A 190-point bill was passed from the subcommittee only twice in one week without enough planning. Moreover, we know that the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures and the Union of Traders and Artists of Turkey are prepared without their opinions. Democracy is understood by the involvement of minority and opposition in the decision-making process. By excluding NGOs, any work done without consideration of the opposition's proposals is incomplete. Opposition detects problems, and power resolves those problem areas. That's what's supposed to happen. The Justice Commission, the European Union's Integration Commission, National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission should be discussed for a short period of time, unfortunately, I would also like to point out. It's important to place the rights of intellectual and test property on a legal basis, and it's not really the problem. If it is discussed in the European Union's Commission for Integration, Culture, Youth and Sports, the bill will also be seen that the problem cannot be solved by enforcing law, the issue is stemming from the deeper way it goes towards the presidential regime and the capital-oriented mentality. The science and industry of a country that became increasingly centralized after June 7th and became a single man's regime is always troubled by its production and its sport. What can we expect from sports in an environment that reduces football to football to manhood and turns football into political propaganda with the openings of stadiums? Let's look at our football as an example. Recently, the broadcast tender found a buyer for $500 million. With sponsors and extra revenues, these numbers are worth billions of dollars. What was the result? A growing tax debt every year, the success of our clubs in the world leagues. Moreover, the national team does not search sports clubs, but we see that a manager's salary corresponds to compensation for almost 25 years of minimum wage labor. And the minimum wage raise is considered zero this year, but we're paying a coach in a male-dominated sport in sacks. This is the sum of our perspective, our state, and our perspective, the valued lawmakers: There is no effort, but we pay a lot of money for labor exploitation. Mr. President, is it different in art? The minds, first drugged with arabesque music, are now drugged by sound competitions in TV. They are replaced by uneducated people who calm themselves with razor blades, who delight in pain, who bless them, who suddenly want to capture fame. While the world's most important music award, Beethoven International Prize, is being printed in lines, the ratings are being broken by programs that act in complete fiction and are simply exploiting emotions. When are we going to see that these programs, which are done at the expense of the public, kill the future horizon of this country? What do we make? Nothing. Our wealth is being destroyed - dengues, bards, lovers. A culture disappears as if it never existed before. We're talking brands. Are we looking far away for the brand? Our brand is Veysel the Lover, Constant in Love, Mullis Akarsu, Shakiro, Mahzuni Sheriff, Neşet Ertaş, Ciwan Haco, Nizamettin Ariç. We can't even brand our own culture. Also, speaking of which, there are songs in every language in the Sound Contest, but we can't use Kurdish from the oldest languages of this land, they don't use Kurdish. Is this an acceptable situation, lawmakers? Doesn't that hurt the peace of the country? The brotherhood, the words of life together? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to present a few examples of how we are in training. We know that in the PISA report, which OECD has taken place every three years, and in particular in science and mathematics, we ranked 50 percent among 72 countries. In 2015, 42,000 students scored zero points in their entrance exams to the university. Our children are no longer able to solve the most fundamental problem. Turkey's best high schools are being redesigned as part of the school; its best universities are unable to even elect its own chancellor. High schools are subject to hierarchy within themselves, and then the ranking is drawn to these bad spots by vocational high schools and imam-eaters. With all due respect, this painting is unfortunately your work. In accordance with Act 672 issued in the middle of the night on September 1, 28,163 teachers were expelled from public duties without a fair trial or right to defend themselves, and the valued academics who signed for peace were expelled from the profession. Are we going to make brands by exporting teachers, scaring academics, digesting college youth? Are we going to make brands by opening imam-hating high schools all over the place? I believe that Imam-student high schools are needed, but it's not acceptable to open so much. What does this contribute to the production of ideas, dear lawmakers? Were we able to create a brand in training? Are we going to make brands by changing six national education ministers over the course of your 14 years of power, or are we going to create our brands with our children as a cheap labor force for capital? Is our industry different? First of all, let's look at the manufacturing industry, which produces 80 percent of all imports. We're going to create a brand with an industry that depends on such low value investments? The production industry of high-tech products is 3.7 per cent of exports; its share in imports is 16.1 per cent. How are we going to develop a high-tech product while importing engine parts, software, and how are we going to brand it? What do we make, what do we brand? Dear lawmakers, it's not about patenting, patenting, or having a lot of patents; it's about producing, it's about the idea. We're looking at patent numbers, we're way behind in Europe. We don't have a country for pirates and imitations. Is there an area in the patent application rankings where we entered the first 20? Of course not. When we look at the distribution of patent applications, we see the weight of four major cities. Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Bursa are 70 per cent of patent applications. What about the other provinces? You have to make something good to get a patent. This is about weighting RD studies, planning and programming, taking first place in RD studies. So, are the resources we've devoted to RD for this, the valued MPs? We split only 1 per cent of the Turkish budget into RD. That's two and a half times the European average. I mentioned in a speech that our spending on RD was below the expense of an international company. The amount the Toyota company has devoted to RD is twice as valuable as ours. This figure is no longer acceptable when we look at the money spent on the construction industry, which is now at its level of efficiency. With this educational system, with this industry, with this art, unfortunately, it's very difficult to create brands and to create original ideas. Now, as a result of this painting, I would like to review the Testial Property Act. Mr. President, due to the fact that our country does not have a probationary property law, regulations have been tried by the Constitutional Court, but some of the provisions of the laws regarding the brand design, patents and geographical signs have been revoked as you know, as you know, in the Constitutional Court, on the grounds that basic rights, persons rights and homework, and the political rights and papers involved in Section Four will not be carried out in the rule of law. The EC PARTI government and capital environments have drafted this bill in order that the laws of the law be passed immediately, in order to eliminate the problems and rights losses that could be caused by possible cancellations in the field of testing property rights. Companies such as test ownership, production, marketing and distribution of large companies are being introduced to protect and secure their monopoly in competition. It is known that capital and monopoly problems and so-called loss of rights are being prepared to prevent the problems and loss of rights because the bill is being cancelled in the Constitutional Court. Design, invention and technological innovation cannot be hidden under anyone's property. These discoveries are the common heritage of humanity and the values developed for human common use. The invention is a product of the science of ideas and production and collective work. Thus, a new invention is not for one person or for another, but for the whole of mankind, and it is for the service of mankind. An invention, a discovery, an idea, must have had more work done, or some groups had more work done, or incentives have been more encouraging in this regard, but -- we can't say that these incentives are encouraging enough in Turkey -- it's not the multinational corporations that are responsible for this right. We see in this law that the labor of engineers, designers, architects is not enough, that they are not protected by law. It is sufficient that he explains how he received the right to design application from designers if he was not an applicant in the 60th (10) article of the bill. The statement is a very clear indicator of this, valued MPs. The amendment makes it difficult for those who have already been exploited to use the right to design. With the law, it was easier for employers to steal the labor of the designer, while the labor of the employer was known for his claims in the business flow between the employer and the employee. Instead of commenting on patent applications, a contract is required and is required to show the designer's rights and conditions. Capitalism history shows how it has secretly taken control of the environments that allow companies to create design and inventions. While a public-interested design or invention should be popularized and presented to public benefit and service, it is not acceptable for us to take possession and protect capital. This, as the Constitutional Court has correctly pointed out earlier, is contrary to basic rights, civil rights and homework and political rights and homework in chapter four. At the same time, even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, we can also point out that the legalisation of the Sunei Property Law will do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In Turkey, the rental labour law, which insures workers and workers, making it a cheap labour force for foreign capital, serves foreign capital interests, does not serve any motivation other than efforts to make the country's market more attractive to foreign capital. The understanding of neoliberal development, based on the political ideology of the EC PARTI, seems to solve the resource problem for short term, but in the middle, long term, it will make country designers, workers, and small producers more vulnerable and dependent than ever before. 14 years of economic policies of the EC PARTY have shown us this over and over again. Dear lawmakers have grown up not for the economy, workers and workers, but for the employers, and this growth has been paid back to laborers as workers massacres, increasing poverty and debt slavery. In short, I would like to point out here that this bill, which will register the unilateral ownership of processes such as design, invention and such as this, and in concrete terms of foreign capital, will not solve these problems and will not provide a solution. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0165par0076	Thank you, Mr. Doğan.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0166par0077	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0165par0078	Here you go. What is your request?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0166par0080	I'd like to make a brief statement about the hero-marash events as the Deputy Heromarash.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0165par0081	Here, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0166par0082	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are just a provocation set up by the dark centers of heromarash. This hand of mine, the Flame and the Sunnis, all the people of Kahramanmarash and the people of our country, have all been hurt together. We lived and lived in brotherhood before and after these events, and now -- the Alevi and the Sunnis -- and we are willing and determined to live in brotherhood. Every anniversary of the events, we see those who scratch what's going on as ulterior motives, and we ask our countrymen not to fall for them or give them bonuses.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0165par0083	Thank you, Mr. Sword. 1-Sunei Property Law Bill (1/699) and Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report (S. Number 341) [[Continue]] Mr. Tahsin Tarhan will now speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0167par0089	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the Bill of the Sunei Property Act 341 rows. I salute you all. Last week in Kayseri, and yesterday in Ankara, our enemies who lost their lives in the treacherous terrorist attacks, and Russian Ambassador Andrey Karlov, ask Allah's mercy, and I condemn both terrorist attacks with hatred. Mr. President, the valuable MPs are a comprehensive bill with many technical details; the bill consists of five chapters, 193 articles. Amongst the arrangements for brands, geographical signs, traditional products, useful models and patents are joint provisions. We support the law-making of this bill in general, but we will also address the technical details that exist, of course. But first, let's look at the frame: there's a whole sense of governance of contradictions. Three months ago, you said it was very important, you passed through the Commission, and then you called on the European Union, and suddenly this bill is worthless, and now it's on the General Assembly agenda. So you have to ask, why are the laws being made, for public use, for production, or for you? At the point where we're here today, we understand that only because you and only want to. When this bill was discussed in the Commission, we warned, we said, we worked sincerely; brand, patent, useful model, geographical signs, we were behind in all of them. However, the Ministry of the European Union states that it is not in full harmony with its statement on the bill, because some regulations are not being made, which are left to regulations that will be adopted when the bill is adopted. That's right, and let's make all the arrangements necessary immediately. It's not progress, let's jump, but what did you do? One day, with your understanding of foreign policy, you took the law on a shelf one day and brought it to the General Assembly's agenda the next. If you don't care about the European Parliament's decision, and you're taking an approach to the European Union, then why did you bring it up on the agenda of Parliament? Foreign policy requires consistency. Today, Turkey's attitude in its foreign policy only results in dishonor. The economy is down, unemployment is gone, people are unhappy, desperate, there's a threat of terror, everyone feels insecure; regime change is imposed on people because they want one, the public is constantly instructed, the State of Emergency is on fire. In an environment like this, you say we should discuss patents, brands, useful models at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, where the people's will is granted. Today, however, we need to talk about democracy, freedoms and economics. Because in this environment, you can't create a new brand, a useful model. Who, why, and what money will he be dealing with in this insecurity? Dear lawmakers, do you know what companies with a long history in the industry are doing today instead of developing new products, creating new brands to compete with the world? Energy costs and SEC bonuses are being crushed under transportation costs. Industry, textiles, all sectors are in trouble. Factories that can't stand, businesses that are closing one by one, the industrialists don't want to leave production to their children anymore. Strangers have already fled in this unsafe environment, our young people are going abroad, the brilliant minds do not want to remain in this unsafe environment because there is an understanding in this environment that has sworn to silence every voice that opposes it. Let me give you an example of both this bill and the brain drain. A young man came to us who worked at TÜBITAK, but was suspended on the need that was seen in the last period without any justification. I listened to him, and he swore to me that he had nothing to do with any organization. He said he was working on a very important vaccine project and that he was close to the end of the project. He said he didn't know what was going to happen because of the suspension. Time passed, this young man came to me again, decided to return to work, but in the process, he received offers from many abroad, said he didn't want to go back, that he would go abroad and that he couldn't produce anything in such an unsafe environment. You know we have a lot of young people like that. Perhaps the vaccine our young man was working on would be patented, a worldwide study that would contribute to both humanity and our country. Mr. President, good lawmakers, today, everything from industry to service, energy to agriculture is changing. Everything in the world adapts to new technology. See, the world is not talking about these today, it's about industry 4.0, it's about the Martian Internet. Industrial policies are being planned, renovated, with these technological changes in developed countries. I've already told you, we support the adoption of the probationary property law. Why? Because the adoption of these and similar laws is a positive development in the integration of the EU, creating an attractive environment for investment. Yes, to allow advanced technology and such production to invest in this country, to pave the way for the country to produce and export high-tech products, but testing property has only one leg, and other components. I don't want to burden you with numbers, but a few numbers tell us a lot. In the 2015 biotechnology ecosystem ranking, Turkey ranked 45th among 54 countries. This sequence is made by assessing the seven main components of the ecosystem. These are intellectual property, RD density, company incentives, education and human capital, institutions and policy stability. These 7 components are created using 27 subcomponents total. However, when we look at the result, we see that Turkey has not stepped forward in any of the 27 sub-components used in the index. If you look at the seven main components, you'll see how you left the country so far behind. Let's see these components: Fikri property... as I said, this law, really, is a step towards protecting intellectual property in terms of technology. However, at a time when the person who gives the opinion is locked up, you should appreciate where we are in protecting ideas of economic value. It's obvious that the source for RD is insufficient. The source of a German car brand for RD is twice as much as the source of our country's resources. We're out of words about corporate incentives. It's not incentive, it's cost-effective. Education is one of the most responsible points in which we are responsible for the title of human capital. The training puzzle board, let alone the wide vision, raise the brains that question, investigate; the children that we put to the test, memorize, test, test, test, see as racehorses, on the one hand, our children who are burning for a primitive reason, like the fire escape being locked. The other component is the stability of institutions and politics, which are the most words we have to say. If it's a sense of stability that has driven the country from one crisis to another for 14 years, the unemployed are growing day by day, yes, there is stability. The institutions are looking into the mouth of the government, no independence, no autonomy; there's one manpower, central management mentality, and those who are not experts are trying to run these institutions from where they sit. In politics, there is an understanding of governance under the name, where one kind of understanding is imposed in every field. Dear lawmakers, production, marketing, protection and promotion are a chain of one whole, and without one, the other means nothing. Our country, in particular, is very rich in local products. Many of our cities stand out with their own products. Remember: Gaziantep's baklava, Afyon's sausage and cream, Malatya's apricots, the potatoes of Niğde, the tea of Rize, the nuts of Giresun, the figs and olives of Aydın, the apple of Amasya, the lebleb of Corum, the watermelon of Diyarbakır, the ice of Kahramanmarash, the bacon of Kayseri, the grapes of Tekirdağ, the penitan of Kozeeli, the penitarian.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0168par0101	Edirne has a liver.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0169par0102	You forgot Edirne's liver.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0167par0103	And how many of these local products do you think are registered? Only two of them, two of them, the baklava of Gaziantep, and the fig of Aydın. But what we just counted are all local products that deserve the same protection. Not only that, there are geographical signs: signs that indicate the geographical origin of a product or a product or a living thing. The product or property that carries this geographical sign is trusted because production has to be done according to a certain standard. In the area where the product or goods are produced, manufacturers are primarily taking advantage of the protection provided by registration. The standard quality in production increases the value of the goods. It protects the manufacturer, provides economic support and improves the area where production is made. So the product is made of a certain quality. It's the product that's been trusted and so preferred because it's taken the registration. The risk of possession of the product is almost zero. It's an important asset to many countries in the world. It's an app that'll save the manufacturers a little bit of trouble they're in. Dear lawmakers, closed sugar factories, glass factories, privatized Tekel, paper factories, all actually produced products that would be world brands, but the ruling party didn't see the value in these factories. Where there's construction, there's AKP, there's a bridge, there's a hospital, there's a runt, there's that. But, come on, let's put a value on this country. If you say so, you won't find anyone. You'll find out when it's the production that's going to stimulate the economy, and then you'll stop selling or shutting it down.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0170par0106	Korea developed by building bridges, tunneling, didn't it?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0167par0107	There are brands you've created, let's not be unfair. This country, OKS, SBS, TEOG, KPSS are a brand for the head of the nation. Who's to say that the Turkish Airlines Director who cuts camels isn't the brand of the manager who's transferred from the zoo to TÜBITAK, even with the dollar rising? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's one other thing we need to care about, and that's a useful model. The useful model is important to the industrialists. We need to clear the way for innovations in the industry at this time of the 4.0 revolution in industry. You can register an invention as a useful model as long as it's new and available to industry. You take advantage of the protection of this registration for a period of time. In the meantime, you can develop the product, and you can move on to marketing. What needs to be done is to support such initiatives because industry is the lifeblood of the economy. In fact, promoting, promoting, promoting industry on issues such as good models, brands, patents, will also open the way for economic recovery and development. I'm sure you'd all like to have a Turkish phone. What a pride it is that the computer you're using, its software, was produced in our country. It's not impossible, but it's not enough to save the day to make it happen. Turkey needs to plan ten years, 20 years of development. It takes a step to clear the way for innovations in industry, to step forward with advanced technology. We're enforcing this bill as part of integration into the European Union. Yes, Turkey cannot be considered separate from the European Union. But let's not forget that Turkey is Turkey, we're not saying we should be America, we're not saying we should be Germany, we're Japan, we're supposed to be Turkey. And we can do that in education, in economics, in industry by taking consistent steps. But all of this could be in a safe environment where democracy and human rights are respected, and a social law state is kept alive by all institutions and rules. We can only be Turkey in such an environment. All of us, if we're going to take one step ahead of the industry, we need to review the laws that we've made in Congress and review the educational system, which is primarily the infrastructure of the industry. If we don't launch training campaigns in this country, we won't be able to raise production, we won't be able to clear the way for the investor. If Turkey is going to take a step forward, I say we can quickly remove the obstacles in the way of production and revisit investment policies, support the manufacturer and open Turkey's path. I salute the General Assembly with respect, with love.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0171par0113	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0172par0114	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0171par0115	You want a promise?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0172par0116	Can I use the remaining two minutes?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0171par0117	If your group vice president will allow it, yes.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0173par0118	I'm not.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0171par0119	Thank you, Mr. Altay. We'll now hear the speeches on behalf of him. First, he will speak on behalf of Denizli MP Kazim lion. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0174par0124	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute all of you with love. I have a pledge on behalf of my group on the Bill of Test Property. I'd like to give you a general discussion on the general issue. The bill is a positive provision, despite some shortcomings from 1995 to 1995, in the rule of law on testing property rights, in order to collect all of the provisions in a title. The bill is late in compliance with international legislation in areas such as European Union legislation, patents, brands, geographical signs, useful models, but contains positive provisions. In spite of the positive aspects of the bill, international contracts have been left to regulations, some issues which are not fully harmonised with the European Union's legislation, which should be clearly regulated by the law. A framework for these regulations designed to save the day is being drawn under the direction of the legislature to conduct in areas that clearly need to be regulated, and I want to make it clear that this is not the right method for lawmaking, ethics, universal law enforcement. Therefore, I would like to point out our recommendation to adopt the legislation in harmony with the relevant legislation as soon as possible, in accordance with the bill. As the Republican People's Party, I would also like to point out that these arrangements for patents, brands, design, useful models and geographical signs regarding this bill, which we generally find positive, should be evaluated from a visionary perspective in terms of the technology that is developing in terms of Turkey. The rise in patents and brand applications in our country alone has no lasting meaning in global competition and domestic markets. Clearly, patents and brand applications are limited to a quantitative increase, as long as they do not become a qualified product and become a global brand. I think we should have a common goal in order for regulations such as protection of test property, brands, patents, geographical markers to develop and expand our country's production into market spaces. In exports and imports of our domestic products, the state has a lot to do with the value of global competition. I would especially like to point out that it is necessary for our current government to do its part in this matter. My dear friends, industrialization is an important event, and I would like to point out, of course, that there is an important factor in the development of industry, such as design and brand. However, to increase investments, to increase production, to increase exports, to have real security in the country, to have citizens trust in their own country first, to encourage investment, and also to be an attractive country for investments coming from abroad. But I'm afraid that's not the case in our country today. Our country is going through a lot of terrible processes, a lot of problems. In particular, a Turkey inside the terror clamp has emerged. You know, in 2002, there was only PKK terror, but today we had to fight the terrorist organization, the ISIS terrorist organization. Of course, I would like to point out that they are now allowed to grow, to grow, to become stronger, to come up with some political calculations, but now they need to be purged from our country, and Turkey needs peace, peace, and a real investment environment, a production environment, a working environment. With such serious problems, power continues to act as if there was nothing there, I'm afraid. The terrorist incident in Beşiktaş, the terrorist incidents in Kayseri, and the terrorist incidents that took place last night as a result of the killing of the Russian ambassador, reveal that there is no longer a serious lack of intelligence, and that the state is not truly able to ensure the safety of both citizens and people from abroad. This problem needs to be resolved immediately. Now, our friends who come up here, especially our pro-government friends, say: "We have to keep the spirit of the new door alive." My dear friends, if we want to keep it alive, the Prime Minister and the Minister and you MPs, especially the President, must be in that understanding. If you do not maintain that understanding, if you continue to remain tense in the country, if you do not make an effort to ensure reconciliation, reconciliation, unity, unity, then certainly the establishment of this issue in the country will not be possible for this spirit to live again in Turkey. I'd like to make that very clear. My dear friends, now there's a famous saying in the country. If the imam fails, the congregation will be even more broken. If the above ones fail, I would like to point out that this kind of behavior will not bring peace and quiet to the country if they actually put ideas into the country's political future without really thinking about its future, new tensions, new debates. My dear friends, you know, we've been in the middle of a presidential debate lately when there's no need. Our country, my dear friends, has no presidential issues. Our country has very important problems. These problems need to be solved first. What's important is that you bring together the presidential regime, the referendum and elections to bring in the presidential system before you solve these problems, and if you put them in front of this country, you create the reasons that will cause the camp, the division, the dissolution, the polarization. First of all, this matter needs to be removed from the agenda and eliminated. My dear friends, Turkey has come to a point where we are now living in our country where we see the times in the lives of countries in the Middle East, in various ways, in terrors, killings, sectarian fights, religious quarrels. Your power, which has made Turkey a Middle Eastern country today, must resolve this issue. It is no longer possible to start a new era in the country, to develop industry, to improve the country, to improve our people's education, to improve, with this terrorist air, with the terror nest, the fear that terrorism is causing in the country. For him, security must be provided, intelligence must be carried out in the best possible way, intelligence information must be evaluated in the best possible way. And I say, in the measure of these evaluations, the country must be ruled, and I thank you all, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0175par0136	Thank you, Mr. lion. On behalf of him, Mr. Ali Ercoshkun will now speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0176par0140	Thank you. Mr. President, I've made a pledge to the Bill of Sunei Property 341 rows. On this occasion, I salute you. The road, which began in 1871 with Alametifariana Nizamnam, is at a really important turning point today. Because, unfortunately, the law that we discussed at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the 24th term, in the Trade Commission, did not end last term. He came back to our Commission in the 26th term as a bill, and a subcommittee was established in the Commission with the joint participation of all parties. I'd like to thank all of the members of the Industrial Commission, of course, but I especially thank our friends on the subcommittee that I'm president of, because we've all demonstrated a really positive work with his opposition, and we've all discussed the proposals from the Republican People's Party and the Nationalist Action Party as a result of this work, we've talked, we've reached a decision, and we've made some changes under the subcommittee. We can say that we have witnessed a very detailed work in the bill prepared by the ministry and the institute, because the ten meetings held at the ministry, then in Ankara and Istanbul, then in the light of opening up all sectors on the Internet, alongside all public institutions, along with the NGOs, from various organisations, from various organisations, from various associations, from various organisations, from various institutions, from various institutions, from the 12 ministries, and from the authorities of the 12 ministries, I can't say that I can't take an opportunity to take into office with all of these institutions, including TOBBB, TESIAT, NSIAT, NSED, the Institute of Idea Property Rights Protection, YSED, YSED, YED, the Research Foundations, the Association of Medicines, the Association of Medicines, the Association of Medicines, from you, the Associations, the Associations, and the Patry Associations, and the Associations, and the Deputs, and the Deputatorship Associations. I thank all organizations separately for these contributions. In the past period, four provisions of 369 articles of law have been convened under a single rule of law along with this bill, and 193 articles, along with additional articles, will be legalized, hopefully, in 201 articles. The bill is made up of five books. In five separate books, the law is considered in detail in five different books, the name of the Sign and the Traditional Products, the design, the Model of Patents and the Use, the Partners and Other Judgments. Of course, the key role of the economic and technological development of the last two centuries is that this law, which we can call the Law on Present Property, actually creates and in this framework, shortening the times in this fundamental law, is one of the most important goals of resolution of the inconsistencies without being brought to court. In the third book, the change of the expression to the terms of the design of the industry is only in the terms of the terms of the design. Likewise, the fact that at least 50 per cent of the income from design in universities is going to be given to the designer, this university-private sector, university-industrial, will take the co-operation with other institutions seriously further. Again, the discovery of the potential of discovery in universities in the fourth book and the discovery of at least one-third of the income from here on the invention of it, again, will seriously support this co-operation. In the 5th book, the name of the Turkish Patent Institute (Turkish Patent and Marka Institute) is mentioned in the joint and other provisions. Thus, the institution's structure is restructured based on the current needs, new agency heads are being created, the Fikri Academy of Property and the Centre for Test Property Education are being created in this framework. The rules of the profession of brand and patent proxy are defined, as well as disciplinary provisions and disciplinary committees are included in this framework. Dear friends, there is a serious consensus here at all parties. Therefore, we as the ruling party do not use the time I have left by expressing our goodwill. I want to thank all of our fellow public defenders for their support and the valuable bureaucrats of our Ministry of Science and Industry, especially the Patent Institute. I wish you all the best of this law to our country, to our nation, to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0177par0154	Thank you. Congressmans, we're now in the QA section. We're 20 minutes out. Ten minutes of this period are reserved for questions, and the next ten minutes, the Minister will answer questions. We'll start with Mr. Gürer. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0178par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, when companies produced in our country and patented in the current legal arrangement send their product abroad, the country -- according to law -- prevents different people from entering the country if they have patented the same product. Is there an arrangement on the subject? So, when another person in Turkey gets its name abroad, the sale of the product sent from Turkey is blocked in that country, and in return, either it pays a fee by agreeing with that person, or it cannot enter the country. Is there an arrangement? Is there a patent application in Niğde Province, if it's done, what is it? Is there any patented product in Niğde? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0179par0163	Thank you. Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0180par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. The COSGEB database has a current record, and you're giving non-payment zero interest loans to the COSGEB people for 12 months without paying a total of 36 months, which is a good thing, but who are the KOBIs? Businesses that employ at least eight or ten people. For example, how many businesses in Keşan are able to buy from it, and I'll tell you: 8 businesses, tops. Why do you plan to provide such an opportunity for the small tradesman? The tradesman doesn't have credit in the banks. Besides, let's stop giving loans; now support the pensioner, the worker and the farmer, see how the tradesman's business opens.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0179par0167	Mr. Aydın? No. Mr. Division...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0181par0169	Mr. Secretary, Baku and Kerkuk oil have been poured out to Adana and Ceyhan, as it is known since 2006, due to pipelines entering the service. The life of Ceyhan Energy İhtisas Industries Region, established in 2007 for the processing, marketing and export of crude oil from ports to the world through tankers, is of great importance to Çukurova (Turkukova) as well as Turkey. When will publicisations be completed and investors are assigned to start producing services for Ceyhan Energy Development District? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0179par0171	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0182par0172	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, there is often talk in our country about the decline of bureaucracy, but the problem continues in practice. Kayseri Yeşilhisar district resident Mustafa Kömral sent me the problem with KOSGEB. It says: "Our address in the Trade Record Journal belongs to our old workplace." Last year we moved our business 500 meters forward. We need to update our record paper, but it's updated in a minimum month. That's why KOSGEB won't accept our application. Do you know anyone, Congressman? Mr. Secretary, why is this upgrade taking so long on the day that technology has come this far? Mustafa, how do we solve my brother's problem? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0183par0177	Thank you. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0184par0179	I'm asking the Minister of Industry: 1) Do you intend to remove the TRT turnout of 2 per cent of electricity used in industry and production? 2) Again, you promised to cheapen the price of natural gas. Do you plan to lower the price of natural gas in industry and production in the new year? 3) A study is being carried out in electricity to ensure that the cost of electricity and the investment of distribution companies will be imposed on consumers. Do you think you can lift this? 4) Do you have a study to increase production, investment, employment and export? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0185par0185	Thank you. Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0186par0187	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask about the Saab car. There's still no news. Is there going to be a battery car on this platform? That's my first question. Secondly, I want the name of that company -- which company this car is being purchased from -- and they're not giving me the name -- and this platform that's being bought for how much. There's still no answer, I've filed a question motion two or three times, and there's no answer. I want an answer to that.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0185par0189	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0187par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we're getting loans from our shop through tradesmen and bail co-ops. However, loans are given to tradesmen who don't owe money. There's no tradesman in this environment who doesn't have any debts. All interest-free loans are given to the shop owner who doesn't owe money. We expect you to make a new arrangement. Traders who owe money can also pay their existing debts and use loans again. We expect you to take advantage of that right. Why don't you tell the members of the Chamber of Commerce that you've granted this right to the merchants and bail co-ops? Turkey has hundreds of thousands of members of trade rooms, but none of them can use interest-free loans. And then the interest fell. We call it 8 to 10 percent. A message came to my cell phone yesterday from the Business Bank saying we dropped the monthly credit card interest to 2.34%. 2.34 a month, Mr. Secretary, what percentage per year? Who's the interest lobby? Why aren't you interfering with these banks? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0188par0194	Thank you. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0189par0196	Mr. President, last week in Kayseri, I strongly and with hatred condemning the traitorous attack on our soldiers and civilian citizens. I also condemn the brutal terrorist attack on the Russian ambassador last night. Many of our lives are destroyed because of the brutal attacks of terror, and there is chaos and chaos in the country. The president continues to maintain tension where he will take the necessary measures to prevent terrorism, to gather society and embrace it, and he does not feel responsibility, he wants to avoid responsibility by blaming others. We're at the end of the line now. We expect the president to give up his love for the presidency and make attempts to restore peace and peace in the community and normalize our country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0190par0199	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0191par0200	The poster of Qatar Emir Tem bin Hamed Al Sani was posted in the Sun Stadium of Şenol, which was opened in Tripoli in the previous days. Besides, he was hanged before the Prime Minister. Now, why is your government's sympathy for the only man in the Middle East who is so sensitive to regimes, dictatorships, the only man in Qatar, the fascist dictatorship, the dynasty? So you've been critical of one man's regime for many years, on the other hand, Suud, the Qatar dynasty... is that democracy? So there's a fascist dictatorship out there, and you're posting his posters. I'd like to ask you this question because I'm curious as to what concepts you might be able to explain this contradiction. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0190par0202	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0192par0203	Mr. Secretary, we're going to lend 50,000 liras to the people. You said, "You can only give 15,000 COBIs with your budget." The website of KOSGEB has now collapsed, and the answer cannot be answered. There's about 300,000 COBIs. According to what, these loans will be determined, based on what, you'll split the 15 grand? I want an answer to that.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0190par0204	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Mr. President, I've got a lot of questions, a lot of notes, some of them I've had trouble taking down, and our friends have asked quickly. The first question was the patent in Turkey and the patent abroad and the patent situation in Niğde Province. I believe our Nüğde MP asks how many patents are there? Niğde Province has four patent applications in 2015, two useful model applications, 69 brand applications, and three industrial design applications. These are the numbers I can reach right now. I didn't quite understand your first question. Turkey is patenting, abroad...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0193par0209	Let me put it this way: When the company with a brand A is going to go and sell this product in Germany, if someone else has registered that product in their name, they can't go and sell it by that name, they have to deal with that person.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0190par0210	Mr. Secretary, go ahead, please.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0193par0211	They asked me, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0190par0212	If there's time, you'll ask your question again.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0193par0213	We had two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0190par0214	But I promised Mr. Secretary he'd give me the answers.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0193par0215	Mr. Secretary, I don't understand. Mr. President, we're telling you what you don't understand.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0190par0216	Mr. Gürer, please... Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Congressman, we'll agree on this. Let's move on to the second question. There was a question about COSGEB, which was supported by COSGEB, and why was similar support not given to the tradesman? The shopkeepers support bail co-ops. In the coming period, these supports will continue to increase in 2017. There was raw oil, Ceyhan Institution Industries, and it was asked. Unfortunately for this, the courts are being opened by local authorities, and the legal process is under way. In the coming days, we may have to take radical measures, we're working. Again, there was another question about the KOSGEB application. Congressmans, now, this issue of KOSGEB loans has been launched to ease the situation of small SMEs, small businesses, and to support them. At first, we thought of 15,000 KOBI. This was thought to support the SME from within the 2016 budget. For each COBI, 50,000 liras were the scope of the programme to provide us with $750m in loans, which would cost us about 150m from the first 12 months of non-payment, thirty-six months, and from the 2016 budget. Sure, there's been a lot of applications. These applications are being evaluated. We're getting reviews of the system. Now, imagine a two-way road, normally 100 cars pass by a day and suddenly a thousand cars try to pass by. Yeah, the system's a little rough, we're getting over it. The issue of these loans will continue not only in 2016 but also in 2017. In the 2016 budget, the amount we set aside by the end of this month or the amount we will give is 750 million TL. It's not that the application period is over or we can't apply, but we'll have new credit packages for our SMEs in 2017. Those who will not be among the first 15,000 SMEs this semester should not be upset, and our support will continue in 2017. Again, a 2% electricity turnout from our industrialist was asked.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0194par0223	TRT turnout. Now, as we're preparing a package for the production reform package, that's what's in it, Congressman. This package contains the removal of various tax charges on our industrialist. One of them is the subject of electricity. The environmental contribution is in this package again. Therefore, the answer to your questions will be within the Production Reform Package, which we will bring back to Parliament in the coming days.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0195par0225	Let's get him up, let's get him up, let's get him up, let's get him Now, Mr. Tarhan had a question about the domestic car. Mr. Tarhan, you're the MP from Alexandria, you're close to TÜBITAK, you're in that area, visit TÜBITAK one day, get detailed information from our friends. Now, here's the thing: we've been working on a business model on the car. In the coming period, we agreed on a business model for the production of domestic brand automobiles under the leadership of the private sector and government support. So, in the future, we will continue with a model, not TUBITAK, but with a government-sponsored version of the private sector. Minister, you said that the first day.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0196par0228	Mr. Secretary, invite us to go, so we can see the commissioners in that way. INTERVIEWING, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY LOOKS
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0197par0230	If we could just see the plane and the car, the local plane and the car. You'll see, don't worry, you'll see. It's been ten years since I've been around. No, you'll see, you'll see. Allah is great. INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOJI LOOKER (TOWN) ▪ Now mention the Saab company. We, of course, don't get the Saab license, we don't get the brand. Our automobile will carry our own brand, carry your own name, will be Turkish design and will be an electric car.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0198par0236	Mr. Secretary, how much is an investigation paid? Please, answer me. Again, there were questions about the tradesman about support. I'm going to talk to our Minister of Customs and Trade about the support to be given to the Esnafa. He's working on details, and he's working on a record pardon. So I'll take this up with the Minister. Again, Mr. Arslan had a question about the terrorism issue. Now, look, this issue of terrorism isn't just Turkey's problem; it's a global problem. Not only do bombs go off in Turkey, but people don't get killed in Turkey; there was an incident last night in Berlin. Thus, we face a global problem, and all governments have to deal with it by hand. The question of Mr. Erdem is about Qatar. Now, about another country's way of ruling, the president of another country... I mean, it's not very right to make those comments, Mr. Erdem. That country has its own conditions and a friendly and ally country. We have good relationships.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0199par0240	You've described all countries in the Middle East as the regime of one man, the didictator. Is there a democracy in Qatar? So let the Qatars decide how to govern Qatar, and let us not interfere with it.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0200par0242	Then why are you interfering with Syria, Minister? What's so special about Qatar? Why are you interfering with Syria?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0201par0243	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0202par0244	Qatar's paying for it.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0200par0245	Right.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0201par0246	Dear friend, Mr. Virtue, we're doing the QA. You ask a question, Mr. Secretary, and he answers. Please... Look, we're talking about a country with good relations, Qatar.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0203par0248	There's no democracy in that country, there's a dictatorship. Why do we have good relationships? You export democracy to the Middle East. So let's just let Qatar rule, let's stop what Qatar Emirate is. Then why are you interfering with Syria?
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0204par0251	Then why are you interfering with Syria, Minister? Why are you interfering with Assad? Because there's dollars in Qatar? Congressmans, look, our current agenda is the Patent Law, the Patent Law. Please, let's not get carried away. We're talking patents, patents.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0205par0253	Minister, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit05spe0206par0254	Mr. Secretary, you, please, answer the questions asked about the matter. INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOJI LOOKED FOR EARLY - Mr. Tarhan had the last question about the KOBI. Again, 15,000 COBIs... In 2016, we will support 15,000 SMEs, which will continue in 2017. You know the number of it -- the budget of COSGEB is $1.1 billion in the approved budget last year. In 2017, we will provide $1.1 billion in interest support for our COSGEB/SMEs, both in the form of grant and interest support. Mr. President, thank you very, very much. If there are questions that can't be answered, let me answer them in writing. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit06spe0206par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 341. The Commission and the Government are here. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... accept...
tbmm-2016-12-20sit06spe0207par0006	Put it on record that there's a unanimous vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit06spe0206par0007	Okay. It's unanimous. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-20sit07spe0206par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law 341 rows. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with Law Bill 443, ranked in the second row, and with the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Report. 2- Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report with the Law and the Law Act on Amendments (1/666) [[S. Number 443]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with Law Bill 439 and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which ranked in the third place. 3- Reciprocal Aid in Criminal Reciprocals Between the Republic of Turkey and the Russian Federation and the Foreign Commission Report on Compromising the Restitution of Criminals (1/650) [[S. Number 439]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions could not be found after this, the decision was made to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Wednesday (December 21st 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
