tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Kamil Aydın (Administrator of Erzurum), who asked for a statement on the martyrs of Sarıkami in his 102th year. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with the utmost respect. Yes, tomorrow is December 22nd, which reminds us of December 22, 1914. One of the most important common denominators in history is the consciousness of history, the partnership from history, that holds peoples, communities together, nationalizes, and leads to the unity of nations. Here is one of the main reasons why the great Turkish nation, despite all its misfortunes, dirty games, and scenarios, is that it becomes one body without breaking its body, a union of great victories, epics and tragedies. When we look at our recent history, an event that has been recorded as a great tragedy in history is Operation Yellowkamis. I'd like to talk a little bit about this operation that took place in the Allahu Akbar Mountains. Dear lawmakers, Kars, Ardahan, Sarıkamiş, Artvin....have tried to take back the land that we had taken out of our hands by making one final move after the release of the Russians. Deputy Chief of Staff of the period, Enver Pasha, takes a strategic decision, implements and implements this action with his staff at a time when the Russians are in great relief. In Operation Sarıkamis, in fact, both Russian documents and Turkish documents, as stated in the documents of our General Staff, there are no such 90k figures; this is a major military plan, a project, and there have been major losses on both sides. The plan is this: 9, 10, 11th Corps, and the 3th Army, in particular the climate conditions, is planned to move immediately from Shunkaya, through Bardiz, to Oltu. But Hafiz Hakkha Pasha, our 10th Corps Commander, when he entered Oltu, very soon, when he had taken Oltu, when he was in great joy, when he was drunk of victory and came all the way here -- not the plan, not the project -- let me go all the way to Ardahan, and then return to Sarkamiş. However, if he had turned to Sarikamish after Oltu, he could have been crowned with a narrow corridor, without being too affected by climate conditions, but when Ardahan went to Ardahan and tried to turn over Ardahan, unfortunately, it made us pay a heavy price. Why? Because God had to cross the mountains. Instead of crossing a closed valley, it caused great losses when it chose to cross a clear, high, bumpy mountain, a mountain with heavy winter conditions. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is not a loss, as they say. There, the Turkish army, in fact, did all the military maneuvers that fell on it, showed great heroism. Russian documents include about 30 to 35,000 of our losses, about 25 to 30,000 Russian military casualties. In this, sir, by fighting, by a great majority already fighting... let's not do this injustice to this expedition; they left without drawing their weapons, shooting bullets, waking up from sleep... No, they, as Mehmetchik, sir, fought to the last drop of their blood, and became martyrs there. Of course, we've had soldiers affected by the circumstances, but it happened both ways, both by the Russian and by us. So today, it is up to us, sir, without hurting their spirituality... we're giving our martyrs today, as we did today, but if it weren't for Çanakkale and Sarıkamis, today, Turkey, including Operation Firat Shield, would not have been a stable, large, alive and together, acting in the spirit of unity... in the fight against terror outside. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear MPs, another thing that has brought this action to light is that, sir, Daskov, the General Commander, the Russian Commander, the Turks have taken this place. After we said, let's withdraw. After Yudenic, the commander of the region, who is in command of the region, with a number of tips from the non-Muslims in that area, we take on them today. No sir, the Turks are struggling in Sarıkamiş, Allahuekber, and turn back. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0003par0018	Mr. Aydın, thank you. As a martyr to his grandfather, I sincerely thank you for reminding me of this. The second non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Onursel Adıl. Here you go, Mr. Nice Name.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I wish God's mercy to the martyrs we lost in Kayseri and Al-Bap. My condolences to their families, and to the wounded, and to the wounded, I pray for immediate healing. I also condemn the attack on the Russian Ambassador, Mr. Karlov, and send my condolences to his family and to the Russian people. Dear MPs, Mr. Bahçkapilı promised me the problems of Istanbul, but with his forgiveness, I'd like to say something about the pain, the dark days we've been through, and the process we can't see. Dear lawmakers, from June 7, 2015, we lost hundreds of people, hundreds of people, many of whom many of you don't even remember their names in the bomb attack. Today, these people were not numbers, but sons, wives, mothers, fathers, whom we easily pronounced from this platform and reduced each to numbers. On July 20, 2015, the murderers slaughtered Nazegül Boyraz. Nazegül Boyraz left Jasmine without a mother while slaughtering him. On October 10th, Eren lost his dreams, who carved your laughter into your memory. Veysel's dreams of becoming a lawyer were slaughtered. Joseph, Zelal, and Fatosh were left without a brother. Selin lost not only his 19 - year - old brother but also his best friend in the treacherous attack at Beşiktas. Four days ago, when Selin tried to digest the words of his brother, the bombs went off this time in Kayseri. He was off duty at the mall, Samet, 21 years old. He was in the spring of his youth, just like the other 13 of us. But, as the Prime Minister said, one of the unstoppable, lost live bombs did not only remove Samet from his dreams and future, but he also left Huseyin Özen without a son. Dear lawmakers, many homes have fallen from June 7th to today, and they continue to fall. And even more painful, unfortunately, in our country, the deaths are being normalized. 14 soldiers are martyrs; those who have ruled this country for 14 years are competing for the appearance of fireworks at openings, as if they had no responsibilities in the massacre. Come on, we understood a long time ago that you were unaware of the responsibility and weight of the country's administration, but despite all the pain that's happened, don't you feel sorry for the lives that have been lost? He'd crack at the burden of all this pain. The children of this country are being slaughtered. An ambassador is assassinated under the protection of our government, almost without an example in the world, but while thousands of civil servants of God are being discharged under the name of the fight against the government, Uncle Mehmet is being suspended just because Bank has paid rent to Asia, he still has no explanation why this terrorist is still in charge. Today's ruling party is shamelessly trying to sell the constitution of dictatorship to the nation as the constitutional constitution of youth. What stability are you talking about? If you're referring to the deaths, you're quite right. Look, no one can compete with you in that regard. You turned the country into a bloodbath, came to power alone on November 1st. Now you're taking the country step by step to dictatorship for one's ambitions. Just like the days when you blackmailed people, you said, "Give me 400 deputies, let this work be resolved peacefully." You said, "The terror will end, the stability will continue." If you were going to end it, why didn't you succeed in bringing terror, peace, stability to the country for 14 years? When you bring in the presidency, what are you going to do that you can't do today? Today, this constitution is the constitution of young people. So I'm asking you: what problem of this constitution and youth is going to be solved, unemployment, safety, education, housing? And I say from here, don't try to manipulate young people with your dictatorial ambitions. It's obvious who you're going to the Constitutional Amendment for. If you were really thinking about young people, you wouldn't have raised your hands when we said "no." If you really thought about young people today, there would be no loss of death, unemployment, anxiety, and despair in the interest of young people in Turkey. If you really were thinking about young people, you would not have laid the stones of the judgment that valued the life of a 27 - year - old Ethem Sarsuluk. But don't forget, you're out of tune, and you'll be weighed tomorrow.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0005par0033	Thank you. Congressmans, as you know, we distribute non-responsive rhetoric requests to each party at certain rates, and you also state what is the topic and content of your request when you ask us to speak about the outside of the agenda, the deputy speakers. Of course, we don't pay much attention to what the contents of the distribution are, but I especially ask that after this, the members of lawmakers who ask for non-responsibility will be able to keep up with what they've written in their petitions. Mr. Adılül wanted to talk to you about Istanbul's problems.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0004par0035	I asked for your forgiveness, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0005par0036	If he had asked for a word about this problem, if he had asked for a word about the issues he had spoken on the stand, I would have promised him again. I'd like to ask you specifically to take care of this.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0006par0037	Mr. President, what Mr. Adıl Ylül is saying is the problems of Istanbul and Turkey. He never said anything off the agenda.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0005par0038	Look, don't say it as Turkey's problems. In my petition, I have a request for Istanbul's problems. Please...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0006par0039	Isn't there a terror problem in Istanbul, sir? He told me about her.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0005par0040	I'm asking you a favor. Whether you pay attention or not, that's your problem. I'm asking you to be sensitive. That's it. The third non-responsive statement is from Silverhouse MP Cihan Pektaş, who asked for a comment on the founding anniversary of the State Water Affairs General Directorate. Here you go, Mr. Pekstone.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0007par0045	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book pledge to mark the anniversary of the State Department of Water Affairs. I hereby salute the High Council. Before I begin my words, I hate the treacherous terror attacks in Istanbul and Kayseri. Today, I ask God's mercy on our soldiers who have been martyred in the battle of El Bab, and upon our wounded we pray for immediate healing. We will build our dams, our roads, all our projects in spite of terrorist organizations and the dark forces behind them. By further strengthening our unity and unity, we will achieve our goals with certainty. The construction of water structures in our country was run by foundations during the Ottoman era. Immediately after the formation of our Republic, the Water Science Committee was formed in 1925, and the first works began. As a result of drought and famine in 1929, water became more important, and Water Public Directorate was established. It is our first dam in the history of the Republic to open the business in 1936 and provide Ankara with drinking water. The DSI, which was adopted on December 18, 1953, began its work in accordance with Law 6200, which took effect on February 28, 1954, and the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs today. The DSI, a leading organisation in the development and development of our country, operates in agriculture, energy, services and environments. The DSI is known as the organisation that maintains its activities in four sectors, while building more dams. Looking back, 1,073 dams and ponds and 65 hydropower plants have been completed and opened for business. These dams and hydropower plants include Ataturk, Keban, Karakaya, Altınkaya, Oymapınar; recently we have Deeper, Ermenek and China Adnan Menderes dams. When our already built-in Yusufeli and Ilisu Dams are completed, they will settle in the highest ranks as a source of our country's pride. Dear lawmakers, as of today our dams have a storage capacity of 165 billion cubic metres. With projects to do, our storage capacity will be increased to 200 billion cubic metres by 2023. The water we need is 40 billion cubic metres of water, 7 billion cubic metres of drinking water, 7 billion cubic meters of industrial water. As it turns out, the largest pen in water use is agricultural irrigation. Beginning in the early 2000s, the DSI has accelerated the transition to modern irrigation systems, which have largely saved money in irrigation. The new projects are all rain and drip systems. Turkey, whose facial measurement is 78 million hectares, has 8.5 million hectares of economic waterable land. As of today, 6.4 million hectares are being watered and all 8.5 million hectares are planned to be watered by 2023. Our water sources have the right conditions for the production of hydroelectric energy. Economically, we have the potential to produce 180 billion kilowatts per year. In the last 14 years, 68 billion kilowatts of energy has been produced. With previous production of 26 billion kilowatts, the figure has risen to 94 billion kilowatts. By 2023, we'll be able to produce 160 billion kilowatts. Water supply projects for all our cities, especially Istanbul, Ankara and İzmir, are being implemented to satisfy the need for drinking and using water. The need for 2040 2050 years is being planned, considering its needs. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are provided for by the world's first project to take water from the sea and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus needs water. This project is important to show Turkey's power and the point where Turkish engineering is coming from. Thousands of engineers and Turkish companies that grow in DSI and specialize in work for the DSI are making huge contributions to our country's economy by building water structures worldwide in many countries around the world. A powerful organisation, the DSI, is ranked first among the world's decent institutions. As of today, the DSI is serving our nation with 25,200 staff and 2,200 constructions, as well as 26 regional directorates and all cities. As I put an end to my words, I salute the High Council again.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0008par0057	Thank you, Mr. Pekstone. Members of lawmakers, I will now promise the MPs who enter the system to their place by one minute. Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Nurlu, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Kökal, Mr. Köseoğlu, Mr. Kayan instead of Mr. Sertel, Mr. Demir, Mr. Candy, Mr. Solcuoğlu and Mr. All. Mr. Özdemir, we'll start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0009par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. My condolences again to the family of Ambassador Andrei Karlov, the Russian government and the Russian people, who died in a vicious attack. Last week, I'm renegotiating our soldiers, our security guards, and our civilian citizens, who we lost in a traitorous terrorist attack. The solution to our country's unrest, tears, darkness, and the emergence from the problem ball because of the poor and unsuccessful administration of AKP governments, who have ruled the country alone for 14 years is never a regime change debate. While there is no peace and security in our country, the parliamentary system is wanted to be destroyed by the regime change as the final nail in the status quo to be established through the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which we are a member of. Dear lawmakers, we must never allow the dicta administration to be legitimized, to be granted constitutional status, with the amendment arrangements we started to discuss in the commission yesterday.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0010par0068	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0011par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week, we brought up this book, which the municipality of Kütahya had distributed to newly married couples, which had insulted the woman, recommended beating her, polygamy, polygamy, child marriage, and the work of a woman. We were informed of this book by the attention and sensitivity of our Republican People's Party Kütahiya County President, Dr. Zeliha Aksaz Şahbaz and the county organization. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our Republican People's Party, the mayor of Kütahya Province, and our county organisation, in front of all of Turkey. Are you going to launch an investigation into the authorities? I strongly condemn the mayor who defends the book, the Minister of Education who doesn't answer clearly, and the woman who laughs but doesn't say a word. We women are still waiting for an apology, and we are still waiting, and we will continue to fight for it with our entire organization. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0012par0073	Thank you. Mr. Hurriyet, I've talked to you about this, and since I'm on duty this week, I haven't been able to deal with it, and I've already told you. In connection with this, our President of the Religious Affairs called me, saying he was extremely upset. Hopefully we'll work this out with you in the new year. I'll announce it one more time.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0011par0075	But the mayor is still defending it, Mr. President, and we need to get ahead of it.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0012par0076	Together, we'll try to take care of it all.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0011par0077	Okay, thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0012par0078	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0013par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Minister of Health is: Hospitals receive subcontractors under the name of services, or those who have been certified for two months are ahead of those who have a license. Nurses and midwives are being secretaryed. Contracted personnel are re-electing other appointments, ahead of those waiting for the appointment. In short, medical documentation and secretary's graduates suffer a major loss. When are you going to fix this? When will the number of medical secretary appointees rise? Another question to the Minister of Energy: Seyhan 1 Hydroelectric Plant, located near Seyhan Lake in Adana, is included in privatisation. The privatisation of this dam, which is vital in the agricultural irrigation of Çukurova, which produces Adana's electricity, prevents possible floods. Please remove this dam as part of privatisation.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0014par0083	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0015par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. The National Lottery is the number of immediately Kazan dealerships in our country. In 2014, a single national lottery directly or indirectly transferred $1 billion to the public, $959,619. Christmas is coming. The lottery ticket sales continue on every street, every street. The Niğde Muftü says he read that the national lottery profit is forbidden, but everyone knows it. No one gets any good out of the money earned by way of Haram, he says. That's a good one. But the government runs games like the National Lottery and Iddaa. The factories have been privatized, and the games of chance run by the government. The government is getting serious income from this job, and this money, the illegal money from our mufti, turns into a salary by the hand of the Treasury. During the AKP government, betting games such as National Lottery, Digital Lottery, Iddaa, Luck Ball, Number Ten, Kazak Kazan, Sixer Ganyan, Super lotto became increasingly common. In football games, Idaa turned football into a gambling tool. The number of people gambling and betting online in Turkey exceeds 1.5 million. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If the money made in the state's games of chance is illegal, what's the money from there, the money from there?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0016par0090	Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0017par0092	Dear lawmakers, the bombings have also been added, unfortunately, to the assassinations against foreign diplomats. There's no safety left in the country. Within ten days, we killed 58 of our officers, soldiers and citizens in the bombings, and we killed the Russian Ambassador in a vile assassination. What we experience is a price to pay for bringing Turkey into the Syrian swamp. If you support the terrorist of another country, send weapons with MIT trucks, others will give your terrorist a gun, give him a bomb, make him bleed. Dear MPs, the government must take responsibility for its wrong policies. It is not enough only to condemn things, for the office of the government is not the office of reproach. Therefore, those who cannot prevent terrorist attacks, assassinations should resign immediately. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0018par0095	Thank you. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0019par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the nation that has each of us sitting in these seats, the owners of these seats, want us to join hands and destroy unemployment, poverty, and terror. Our nation states that the regime change and the presidential system do not have priority issues. The AKP voter, who I speak to, says he loves the AKP, but loves his country more and will not entrust it to one mortal person. The MHP voter I'm talking about says he loves his party, but he loves his country more, and he's not going to trust the country to a single person who's likely to be deceived and who's mortal. The CHP voter I'm talking about says he's attached to Ataturk, who took the sovereignty from the palace and gave it to the people, and that he's opposed to being taken from the people and given back to the House and to a mortal person. The national will must be respected and given up on the desire to be president.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0020par0101	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0021par0103	I'm asking the Ministry of Transport: 1) Turkish Airlines purchased 49 per cent of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Airlines in 2008 for $6m, and then spent $24m on this airline. He then returned his shares to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Airlines with no price. Why is that? Have you done any research and investigation into the 30 million losses our country has suffered? 2) You're always building a road, and in the world, the rail system is a priority. Why don't you give the railroad the importance of the double road? 3) We built Orhangazi and the third throat bridge. You don't say you built the most expensive bridges in the world. Please tell me there are some of the most expensive bridges. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0022par0108	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0023par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, blackouts are killing people. My constituency, Mersin-Bazyaz, has been power outaged for days. The citizen has rebelled, blocked the way to Mersin-Antalia. If Energy was in police custody last night, the teams could have come in and fixed the malfunction and electrocuted it. We're told we've built so many dams, is this electricity being sold somewhere else? There are regular blackouts at several points every day. We can't deal with these blackouts anymore. If we're looking for energy, we're not dealing with it, but we're talking to the computer, and a congressman can't find a contact. I'm here waiting for the Ministry to give politicians a deal, to know who we're going to meet when we call, and to give the V.I.P. phone numbers they gave these AKP MPs, to the opposition lawmakers, as well.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0024par0114	He didn't just give it to the MPs, he gave it to the mayors, he gave it to the mayors.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0025par0115	Thank you. Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0026par0118	Powers that can't share our world and collaborators in our country have done dozens of massacres in our recent history. Unsatisfying cruel minds continue to commit massacres. The heromarash massacre is one of the most violent. I pray that we may be taught from these massacres, never again, for our fellow heroes who have lost their lives in the heromarash. The 30km road between the province of Samsun and Vezirköru-Havza was not made even though the AKP government promised our districts. The people of the queen's bridge suffer material spiritual damage in every traffic accident without this road being built. Vezirköğuru-Töğuru demands that the road be made, and I want to tell you that it is our people's wish to make this long road of our town. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0027par0121	Thank you. Dear Maker...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0028par0124	Mr. President, for years we have criticised your religious and vindictive education policies from these platforms. We have warned you of the dangers of your policies. And every time, you covered your ears for our warnings. When you come to power, an 8-year-old is now the perpetrator of a murder that will cause a major crisis in our country, and this is the result of your vindictive policies. The fact that this is the result of your desire to create a vindictive youth, no matter what you say or say or say Al Qaeda. If you continue to redevelop the state by your ideological preferences, by throwing away the principles of merit, the murder of the Russian ambassador will not be the first nor the end of such acts if you continue to graduate the police with a Conquest March and hymns. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0027par0126	Mr. Köseoğlu...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0029par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Qatar Emiri Tamim bin Hamid es-Sani are the first and only members of the Senol Solar Sports Complex, which we inaugurated last Sunday. Among the complex, which has 92,000 square metres of green space, is a 41.461 audience-capable, disabled-friendly stadium, including two grass, five natural grassfields, and many modern campsite facilities that our Tripolispor will use. Turkey's first stadium, built by filling the sea surface, and Turkey's first stadium, which has the first smart roofing system that cleans itself and prevents air pollution, has also taken its place in history as Turkey's fastest and most technological stadium. On this occasion, I thank all of our ministers, our MPs, and Mr. President, who have attended the opening of our stadium, who believes that the stadium will serve our Tripolispor and many of our teams for many years, and I wish Turkey's pride, the Senol Sun Sports Complex, to the best of our country.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0030par0131	Mr. Sertel...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0031par0133	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Ahmet Arlen, the Minister of Transport, has arrived, and by chance, I was going to talk about Kars. Some of our citizens have no electricity in the villages of Hadjiveli, Subatan, Prime Ministers, Oğuzlı, Waiter, Yağıkesen, Bayraktar and Küçükirveli. It's because of poverty. It's minus 13 degrees in the day and minus 20 degrees in the night. In this cold, people are frozen because of debt, because they can't pay for electricity. Wouldn't these blackouts be more appropriate if they were done in another season? Besides, if these people had the power to pay, they'd be able to pay off this electricity debt and get a chance to warm up with electricity. I leave these people to the conscience of Ahmet Arslan, I leave them to Kars. I leave them to the power of the AKP, I leave them to the power of electricity. These people are desperate, they're freezing, and I'm screaming from here for once.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0032par0137	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0033par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. To deliver it to the concerned ministers... there is a need for the operation of agricultural irrigation facilities and funding for these facilities. Agricultural irrigation services in the province of Muğla and other major city municipalities must be transferred from the budgets of ministries related to the capital municipalities or from the general budget to make changes in legislation due to the lack of construction, maintenance, repair and adequate identifications. At the same time, our producers' efforts are wasted because of the lack of production and marketing -- the cost of input in agricultural production -- such as fertilizer, fertilizer, fuel -- are often left in the field. To prevent this, a new agricultural production incentive system for our country must be created. Besides, your agricultural support...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0032par0142	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0034par0144	Mr. President, thank you. I pray to God for the mercy of our police, soldiers and civilians who have been killed in Istanbul and Kayseri, and for the immediate healing of our wounded as we offer our relatives. I condemn the traitorous attack on Russian-Turkey relations, Russian Ambassador to Ankara Andrei Karlov. My condolences to his family and to the Russian government. I condemn these terrorist attacks on our country's development, unity and unity with hatred. These vicious and treacherous acts of terror by these blood-fed terrorist organizations are their final struggle. I strongly condemn all countries supporting terrorism and terrorists, including the United States and Europe, who have remained silent over the torture, persecution and massacres committed by the Muslim civil society regime of Assad.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0035par0148	Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0036par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish our soldiers, who were martyrs in El Bab, mercy, healing and health for the wounded. The Republic of Turkey is going through the most difficult days in its history; politically, foreign relations are difficult, economically difficult. When we land on the field, people are trying to make a living. There's terror in the country, there's no security in the country. The ambassadors are being killed, the responsible ones aren't doing what they're supposed to. But someone's going through all this trouble calling it the presidential system. Turkey's agenda should be united, Turkey's agenda should be compromise. The greatest task falls to power. We're not just waiting for word, we're waiting for a compromise in practice. We expect the opposition's opinions and suggestions to be taken into consideration. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0037par0155	Thank you. Mr. All, finally...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0038par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask God's mercy on our soldiers who were martyrs in El Bab. Mr. President, the General Secretary of the Association of Alevi Bektashi is in custody for nine days, as well as President of the Sultangazi Cemevi of the Alevi Cultural Associations. He doesn't know what he's accused of, with no organizational connections and no political party membership within the Aleki institutions of his life. I'm asking the government, Mr. Zeynel Odabaş was raided at 4:30 p.m. and taken into custody on what grounds? What's he charged with? Why haven't any information been given to his family and the Alevi Bektashi Federation for the past nine days? How long will he be in custody? Why hasn't he ever been deposed? What does the government want to do by pressuring the Alevi? When does he think he's gonna stop targeting and altering the Flames?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0039par0161	Thank you, Mr. All. The Minister wanted to answer Mr. Sertel's question about Kars. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President. Before that, there was a question about Turkish Airlines. Of course, co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina is very important for two countries. Therefore, I would like to submit to the information of especially valuable lawmakers that Turkish Airlines has no ties or ties to the Ministry of Transport. However, we'll get an answer from our Finance Minister and let you know. As for Kars, of course, there are 382 villages, and we're dealing with their problems one by one. A private company runs the power. If the villages are victimized by a lack of business, you can be sure we're doing what's necessary. However, if there is a closure due to the failure to pay off the loan, there is a chance that the government will be able to restructure it in order to go back to restructuring. We're still trying to connect the citizen, the peasant, the institution, and solve their problems. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So don't leave it on my conscience, it's my conscience. Mr. Secretary, I'll give you one more minute, if you'd like to complete it. Thank you, my dear President. Without a doubt, 382 villages are all precious to us, just as all villages and peasants of Turkey are valuable to us. We're trying to solve their problems, but the best thing we can do about people's debt is to construct debt. That's what I'm getting at, and I'm especially sharing it with them. For your information. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0040par0176	Mr. Secretary, I want the debt wiped out.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0039par0177	Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who have requested a word. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0041par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. This morning, again, in Operation Firat Shield, we have martyrs and wounded soldiers in the El Bab region; we have four martyrs and 15 wounded. I pray to our martyrs for the mercy of God, and to our wounded for the speedy healing. In the country, abroad -- we always say -- Turkey is under a serious siege of terror. We're fighting terrorism, inside and out. May God give power to our entire police, our soldiers, I wish him. Mr. President, yesterday he visited our Public Subcontractors Platform, the National Movement Party Group. Their demand, as promised, is that both the government has actually promised and the opposition parties have actually promised that these contractors will be put in office in their election declarations. Of course, we're not in the executive office after all, but we're warning our government from here again, and we're asking for them to keep their promises, because if they're actually promised something, then it has to be done, so they need to be met. Of course, while this is being done, when this demand is being met, there should be no distinction in the form of the original work - assisting work. It's important for a lot of places, because they show up in an aide class, and they actually do actual work, like, I mean, the Department of Health hires people to be nurses at a hospital, but there, there, they hire them as cleaning workers. Hence, such distinction should not be made in order to address injustices here. Other than that, there have been others who have been wrongfully fired in connection with these subcontractors, of course. These guys didn't get sued for missing their trial time.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0042par0188	I'll give you an extension, one minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0041par0190	And I think it might be appropriate to give them the opportunity to file a lawsuit with this legal arrangement, because it's actually due to unconsciousness. And there's a court order that he's been laid off, but, for example, I have samples, which were given to me yesterday -- and we see that these court decisions are not being implemented. Of course, there's no such thing as not implementing a court order. Our institutions need to be sensitive about this, and these court decisions must be carried out absolutely. As our National Movement Party, we have four law proposals that are currently pending in the commissions for the deployment of subcontractors and the resolving of their problems. And it would be a good thing for us to solve the problems of these subcontractors, who have become a bleeding wound in our society as soon as these proposals are brought up -- or a government bill, or a joint bill, or whatever. I think it would be appropriate to do that right away. Especially in the time when we need unity like this, we'll be doing something good for our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0043par0193	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0044par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. And I ask God's mercy to the soldiers who lost their lives in an attack on El Bab, and I offer my condolences to their families and to the country, but let's just say that the political power, which has structured Middle Eastern politics on distorted foundations, especially Syria, is unfortunately leading the country to an adventure, and every day, it continues to move forward on a political line that increases social camping in this country, increasing tension. Let's be clear, there is a foreign policy that has been established with jihadist organisations in the past and is still established on anti-Kurdish relations that have not satisfied international public opinion, and that the Middle East policies could not have been expected to take the country to a different place than this, because we have a systematic policy that even three days from now without planning. Every day, we're faced with explanations that contradict the day before. Lastly, the agreement held yesterday in Moscow shows that the President's plans to change regimes in Syria, overthrow Assad, the purpose of the operation in El Babāda or Fırat Shield, were nullified yesterday in Moscow. Let's say by action, the agenda of political power and the agenda of 80 million countries is not different, but opposite. Now what people in the country think and feel and what political power feels and unfortunately, the agenda that is not shared with society works differently. While the country is struggling with political, economic, diplomatic, social problems inside and outside, the government is busy with the country's agenda, parliament's agenda, with some constitutional and law amendments that do not even satisfy its own party.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0045par0201	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0044par0202	Thank you. We think that this will reduce tension, reduce social tension, prioritize the political line that can prevent camping, and introduce a policy that can pratify it with calls for social peace. I want to say that this country needs a social peace, not more violence, blood, and conflict, but it's essential, and if we can't do that internally, there's no chance that any of our foreign policies will succeed. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0046par0205	Thank you, too, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0047par0208	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, every day, every morning, when we wake up with painful news, it really makes us very sad. It also saddens us as members of this House, Mr. President, that we can't do anything, that we're watching things. Turkish Armed Forces have been operating on Syrian soil for about 120 days. We woke up this morning again with news of four martyrs and 11 or 12 wounded soldiers. This painting... of course, we'll give you more martyrs if we have to. For the sake of this country, for the sake of our republic, for the sake of our state, for every one of us who lives in this land is prepared to be martyrs. There's no hesitation in that, but here's the hesitation: this is the Great National Assembly of Turkey. With a mandate from this Parliament, the Turkish Armed Forces are doing some military work and operations on the other country's territory. We have martyrs, I believe, 25 to 26 martyrs in that area. It is not uncommon for the government to not inform members of this House, the representatives of this nation, until today. Having a state of emergency in the country does not require members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly to sit in the stands. I'm not saying this for a political polemic purpose, but we don't find it right that what the world knows is that intelligence agencies, national defence ministries of other countries, parliaments of other countries, many of their members, are hiding information from members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0048par0212	Complete, please, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0047par0213	We view it as a disrespect to the members of this House and to this House and to the individuality of this House. We beg you very much, we're not after political polemics. Children who die are our children, children of this nation, children of the poor. We demand a healthy information from the government to the Parliament. We ask for this on behalf of the Turkish nation, and on behalf of the voters who voted for us, and I invite you to be more sensitive to your position in this matter and officially convey our request to the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0048par0215	Thank you. You have no doubt that I am sensitive, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0047par0217	Informative.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0048par0218	I will, and I want you to believe that. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0049par0221	Mr. President, thank you. Four of our soldiers were killed in El Bab. We have 15 wounded. I pray for God's mercy to our martyrs, and to heal our wounded. Syria is an unstable geography. In fact, your border security in such chaotic areas is no longer within your borders, since there is no government authority to ensure stability and security in the region to the border with Turkey. The action against El Bab is aimed at securing Turkey's security and is authorized in this framework. The reason we are there is mainly Turkey's security. Beyond that, it should be remembered that Syria's territorial integrity was strongly highlighted by Turkey and expressed in negotiations everywhere. It is not two or three sentences to discuss foreign policy on Syria, two or three sentences to discuss foreign policy in a geography where alliances change every day, sides, positions change, borders, internal borders change. The debates are already held in various forms on different grounds. The important thing is that the direction is right. Humanity, and Syrian territorial integrity, a political approach has always been preserved, which is important. On the other hand, yes, we face various terrorist challenges, great losses. Hopefully, this kind of terrorist attack won't happen to our country again. It is certainly the power's duty to take every precaution. The fight against terrorism is the duty of all political parties and also legitimate institutions as well as power. This is not something that can only be done by the power of power.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0050par0225	Complete, please, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0049par0226	If asked what their role is, their mission is: Terrorists are weak, they want to create an environment that will cause domestic conflicts, political faults, and turn people against each other by terrorist attacks. Here, we'll be in different politics, of course, we'll be competing, we'll negotiate the future of Turkey, but maintaining a common position against terrorism, and making these negotiations in a civilized way is one of the most important answers to terrorism, a very fundamental task. Basically, Turkey is successfully carrying out its mission with its power, its opposition. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0050par0228	Thank you, too. As the Court, we pray for God's mercy to our soldiers who were killed in El Bab. We pray for immediate healing to our wounded soldiers. They were martyrs there for our safety. God bless them, God bless their souls. We're going on the agenda, Mr. Lawmakers. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. I'll have the motions read separately. The motion will be read because the parliamentary survey motion I will first read is more than 500 words, but will be included in the full text of the motion magazine. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly For additional reasons, we would like to ask that Parliament investigate the problems of the production of tea in the Eastern Black Sea region, in order to determine policies and measures that need to be taken within this scope, by the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, 104th and 105th Articles. 25/01/2016 [[İstanbul]] 2) Bornt Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Artvin]] [[Denizli]] [[Army]] [[Tripoli]] [[Samsun]] [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Paddles]] [[Kayseri]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Manisa]] [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Edirne]] [[Edirne]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] The eastern Black Sea region has about 770,000 acres of tea farming, producing around 1 million 250,000 tonnes of age tea annually. Age tea is processed in factories in the district of Rize, producing around 260,000 tonnes of dry tea annually. The customer in the region has about $2.2 billion in age tea. The tea industry has a total of $5 billion in revenues, including processing, storage, packaging, marketing. Tea is the only source of livelihood for the people of the region. People support their families by farming tea, working in tea companies, or pensions from these businesses. The first tea law came out in 1924, but the first scientific work on the production of tea began only in 1937. The second Tea Law, issued in 1940, was established in Rize, where tea farming and tea businesses were bound by certain rules and the first large-scale tea shops were founded in the same year. The first modern tea factory was opened in Rize in 1946. It was released in 1983 and was issued as a public economics agency under the name of the General Directorate of Tea Businesses, and the tea business was taken from Tekel General Directorate and given to ÇAYKUR. The arrangement, which changed the fate of tea farming, was made on December 4, 1984 by Tea Law 3092. By this law, the state monopoly has been removed; the production, processing and sale of tea has been released. That's when the tea guests' problems became visible. As of this date, the private sector has entered the tea business with a growing share. 45% of the age tea produced today operates in the private sector, 55 per cent in TAYLOR. It's a fresh leaf called "old tea," which needs to be cut in time and sold on time again. The manufacturer has to sell his tea under the conditions of the private sector when he doesn't buy tea by putting in chocolate, quotas and quotas. Tea farming has been using chemical fertilizer for nearly 40 years. This fertilizer reduces the quality of tea as well as the negative impact of other products. Therefore, organic tea needs to be produced immediately. However, the expected development has not been achieved. There are limits in areas where tea is produced in Turkey. The state follows a policy to reduce the production of tea. In the world, however, the production of tea and dry tea is increasing. By now, the world's production of dry tea has exceeded 5 million tons. That's more than the world consumes dry tea. So the world tea market, which has $18 billion, has a great competition. Turkey is a dry tea market, first in the world with 300,000 tonnes/year consumption. This has fueled the appetite of multinational companies, and Turkey has been urged to give up tea farming from different channels. Today, Turkey produces around 250,000 tonnes of dry tea and is all consumed in the domestic market. Some 50,000 tonnes of dry tea a year also come from abroad, most of them illegally. This means that Turkey has no share in the world's $18 billion tea market. Turkish tea, on the other hand, has very important advantages. Turkey can receive an important share of the world's tea market. First of all, there's no obligation in the world to use incectitis in tea farming in the East Black Sea alone. So there are no leftovers in our dry tea. If organic tea can be produced, Turkey's tea will be sought and preferred in the world due to its properties. If requested, Turkey could expand its plant areas and produce 500,000 tonnes of quality, healthy and wanted dry tea annually, and have an important share in the world's tea market (200-250 million dollars). For all these reasons, there is an obligation to establish a research commission at the TBM to investigate the problems of the production of tea in the East Black Sea region. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully present the opening of Parliamental research under the Constitution's 98th and TBM Subsections 104 and 105th Articles to investigate the deaths caused by swine flu and the recent developments in the swine flu vaccine, in order to be discussed through experts and to provide permanent and effective solutions to the problems that have arisen. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 3) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] [[Denizli]] 7) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] 8) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] [[Denizli]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] The long period from the emergence of swine flu to the production and sale of the vaccine followed the emergence of various arguments, speculations, and negativeities. Despite the World Health Organization's recommendation of the swine flu vaccine, the debate over vaccines has not ended. There have been debates about the swine flu vaccine that will be used in our country, and it continues to happen. How many million doses of swine flu vaccines have been taken, how much it costs, and what firms or companies have been given the tender for this vaccine. As a matter of fact, our citizens died of swine flu in Adana and Niğde, so the subject of the swine flu vaccine has come up again. In response to the written motion for questions on the purchase of swine flu vaccines -- (7/31357) -- the main number one on 5/8/2014 -- the Health Minister said that around 6 million doses of vaccines were taken as part of the fight against pandemic flu, about 3 million doses were used, and 3 million doses of vaccines were stocked for precaution, and the stocked 3 million doses would be replaced by the manufacturers of the new character flu vaccine, which would likely be needed in case of an epidemic. Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz, Minister of Development, died in March 2015 at the Grand National Assembly of TBM, 12 people so far from the swine flu. We can't talk about a common epidemic. In March 2015, the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Health said, "We are seeing an increase in cases. This seasonally, we see an increase similar to other years. As of 2015, we received 317 samples. In these cases, 170 of us have swine flu. The rate we lose in these cases is 11 cases. Our 11 cases of swine flu have died. We've lost 16 cases in 2014, 11 in 2015, 5 in total -- I'm talking about the 2014-2015 season. It is located within our region of Antalya, Marseilles, Çanakkale, Sivas, Mersin. We lost three cases in Samsun. It is also being assessed in its place concerning our provinces." He made his statement. Following a press report that a 53-year-old boy lost his life to swine flu in Konya and a 53-year-old boy in Manisa on January 8, 2016, the director of Manisa Health has confirmed that a swine flu virus has been detected in the 53-year-old federal hospital. The 4-year-old who was taken to hospital after complaining of high fever and vomiting in Iconia has died, and doctors have diagnosed the child dying of swine flu (H1N1). A 17 - year - old boy was also treated in the same hospital, and it was also reported to the press that he had been accused of dying of swine flu. It is necessary to investigate the deaths caused by swine flu and to open Parliamental research in order to discuss the recent developments in the swine flu vaccine through experts and to provide permanent and effective solutions to the problems that have arisen. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate and determine the environmental pollution of the Ergene River basin and measures to be taken, we propose and propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitutional Charter 98 and 105. Turkey has 26 water basins. It is one of the highest concentrations of water basins, industry and population (almost 80 percent, 2.037 industrial plants). Different industries, such as textiles, food, or minerals, cause air pollution in the region. The teenage basin is influenced by industrial, heating, transportation-related pollution. In central areas where seasonal pollution increases, measurements are made by the Ministry of Environment. The fact that pollution is multi-profit, multi-pronged, that it cannot be solved by laws, regulations, that it is responsible for human nature, that there is a search for victims, or that it is rejected, that it is not important enough in society, increases the danger. We believe that the study of the parliamentary research commission, which we have requested to investigate and determine the environmental pollution that is taking place in the Ergene River basin, could prevent environmental pollution in the Ergene basin. [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Burdur]] [[Artvin]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 8) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Wednesday 21/12/2016 (today), I would like to submit our group's following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. On December 12, 2016, Turkey's Statistical Foundation revised the national account system on December 12, 2016, which is seen to be a revision that has been rushed without delay in consultations, so it was proposed to open a parliamentary study on Wednesday (December 12, 2016) of Turkish Deputy Chairman Erhan Usta and MP Erhan, MP of MHP Group Erhan and Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, in order to determine the measures to be taken. In favor of the nationalist movement group's proposal, Mr. Erhan, the Samsun MP will speak first. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0051par0433	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. On December 12, 2016, about nine days ago, Turkey's Statistical Agency announced its new national account series; technically speaking, it announced its national income series, either in-house or more general. This series revised backwards until 1998. So, 1998-2015 is a quarter per year, which was announced in 2016 -- right now -- as of now -- as well. What's basically done? Here, of course, there are admirable aspects of the work that's been done, and that's what I've expressed in my last speech, and now I'm not going to go in there too much because of the timelessness. However, what was basically done was increased in an illegal domestic product process from 1998 to 2015. Of course, GDP increased per capita income when GDP increased in total, but here, for example, in 1998, GDP increased by 2.4 per cent in the new series, while in the last year, 2015, 19.7 per cent was increased. What's more interesting here is that by 2010, the increases were less than 5 per cent, and after 2015, all of a sudden the increase started to pop up. For example, in 2015, the increase in national revenues is $385 billion, or $385 quadrillion in old money; Turkey's national income, 2015, has been increased in the new series. For example, each person's income increased $104 in 1998, while it increased $1,750 in 2015, with an estimated increase of around 2,000 dollars in 2016. Now, my assessment and criticals of this are: First of all, this was actually a series that was expected and promised earlier, unexplained in time. It hasn't been announced in time, but it's already been explained, so it's a data that's been explained without consultation, without consultation, without sector committees. For example, the Ministry of Development is an authority on this national income, and the TİK is a ministry of development. I can assure you that no study of this series has ever been worked with the Ministry of Development at any stage. So, think about it, the Department of Development can't even coordinate in itself because there are economic consequences for what you're explaining. Because there is no speciality in the TÜİK (TİK) about this matter, it must be spoken to the institutions that are on the sidelines. The Treasury Undersecretary has been announced a series of data, a series of very poor credits, without any talks with the Central Bank, when certain things should be discussed. The other thing is, of course, this new series contains a break in the previous series, but it also has a serious fracture in it. Look, when you announce a new series, at least you expect a homogeny within yourself. There's a break in it, I just explained that. So there are astronomical differences, especially from the time before 2010 to the period 1998-2010, in terms of revision. However, if you're just adding something to the series, sometimes if you're putting something that wasn't there before, it's going to go on base, and it's going to go on to the new year, it's actually not going to change radically in terms of growth and the period you're explaining, but in terms of methodology of the job, it's going to have to have this kind of break in itself. Now, not only are there national income levels, but there's also an interesting number of growths. If I put it this way, very briefly: for example, the growth numbers that were previously explained during the 1999-2010 period -- so I'm saying that by taking the percentage of growth, by taking the percentage of increase -- are being revised. But the growth figures that were announced earlier in 2011-2015 are being revised at 61 percent, and that can't happen. So, that's how we express that the series is a serious break in itself. Now, not just the levels, but the trends are changing. We don't have a lot of time, so I can't say that, hopefully, if the Clave investigation opens, then we'll talk about it in detail. In the previous series, for example, domestic savings are going down, while domestic savings are going up in Turkey. In the current series, domestic savings are going up. That kind of difference doesn't happen, guys. No new series, no new series, or international community, has ever been described in Turkey, has ever seen such trends change in the series of other countries. Look, this is a very important issue, trends are changing. For example, fixed capital investments were going down in the previous series, going up in the current series. You know, you change your level, I understand that, you add something new, but your trends, your slopes, they don't change; this series, unfortunately, changes the slopes. Now, there's a lot of unexplained data missing from the detail, and I'm not going to go into their technical stuff, but for example, as of the quarters, we don't have a series now. I don't know how to run a model, people of this country. How's he gonna study? Because there are econometric models in this country as of the quarters. Now, as of the quarters from 2015 to 1998, in this era, look, in the 21st century, where the computer has developed so much, Turkey will not have a national income series as of quarterly periods. It's never acceptable. No details of government accounts, no sector investments. TÜİK does not explain the savings rate in the new series before 2009, you know, before 2009, Turkey does not have a savings rate that has been explained according to the new series. Is that acceptable? What kind of work is this? That's why I'm telling you, it's been rushed, it's been explained. The government isn't aware of anything, the government isn't in a position to do anything, we're in an interesting situation. None of the results explained in this new series are accepted as economics. For example, in 2013, the new series says: "The economy of Turkey has grown 8.5 per cent. Remember the year 2013, almost the year of the crisis, a year when markets were stuck. So in a year like this, you take the growth that is now four, the growth that is 4.2, to 8.5, and you change the data that you've already explained over 100 percent. HOW am I supposed to trust this TÜİK? Before, you said 4.2 percent, now you're saying 8.5 percent, that's not acceptable. So far, it's all wrong, friends, what's known in terms of economics. So Turkey has to be very careful with that. So far, everything the world of the academy, the lawmakers, and more importantly, the government that ruled Turkey, was wrong, the series said, now that we know everything wrong, we're talking about everything by the wrong numbers, the problems with the country are wrong, the solutions are wrong, the new series is wrong, this is what's happening right now. It's not easy to accept, it's not easily digestible. All the experts were wrong, the international organizations, the analysts on Turkey, everyone said they were wrong. Now, it turns out the country doesn't have a savings problem, so look here we're talking about planning... savings... We were talking about the country's investment issue, the country's not producing. We were saying that this country is producing, and there's no investment problems, no savings problems. Now, when we look at this country with the naked eye, are these economically acceptable issues? Now, he's publishing a painting to explain the origins of the differences at a TİK press conference, and I'm not going to go into too much detail. And how was this series of changes presented? For example, Mr. Simsek, Mr. Naci Agbal said that this revision was made in line with the international account system. You're looking at the source of the changes, so only 7 percent of the change in 100 is due to harmonisation in the international account system, the 93 percent of the percentage is due to measurement problems or other things. Therefore, let no one present it to us as such a revision in accordance with the international accounting system. It is not compatible with the data of TİKİK. It is not compatible with the current current data, it is not compatible with the employment data. The unemployment rate is increasing in a country with a growth of 8.5, which is not compatible with industrial production, it's not compatible with turno indexes, it's not compatible with trust indexes. Look between the use of loans and growth in Turkey, there is a lot of work in the world, which explains the relationship between them, which is not compatible with any of them. We're going to have to change all the models in Turkey, we're going to have to change all the solutions, we're going to have to change the problems, if the government is behind this revision. Now, you're looking at an increase, and when you look at the details, a significant part of the increase is actually due to private sector construction investments. This construction's already ruined everything, brought this country, hit the concrete, so now it's corrupted the data, and that's what the construction, TİK says. So, after all this work, the private sector also increases construction investments. For example, I'll tell you a number for 2015, the sum of construction investments that were announced earlier -- special plus public numbers because they don't give us that detail, but we're sanding it up -- 175 billion TL friends, 175 quadrillion dollars in old money. Do you know what he says in his series now? It says 380 billion TL, so is there over 100 percent wrong in a number? So until yesterday, that number was right, that number was official, and now something is coming out of it, 380 billion. How can we trust that? My concern is that no one analyzes them, no one looks at them, no one does. Now, because of the non-registered economy, we've tried to fix it. If these figures are correct, Turkey -- we will discuss the details later on -- is also admitted to the rise of the informal economy. There are still discrepancies with the general state data in the series he described, so is it intended to achieve his 2023 goals, I don't know what this is, but what TİK would have to do is write a comprehensive report about it. If this report doesn't convince the markets, Mr. President, it's our duty as Parliament because the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has agreed to the development plan, and we have to throw out all the medium-term programs in the government program, all of it in the trash, all of it wrong, if this explained series, this information is true. Thus, Turkey's economy lost its compass. The Turkish economy, if we take these data seriously, is facing a navigational problem. The government is unaware of the revelation of the situation, it will undermine the reputation of this country. Therefore, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must seize the situation, a parliamentary investigation has been mandatory, inevitable. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0052par0449	Thank you, Mr. Master. Eskişehir MP Emine Nur Günay will be the first to speak against the group's proposal by the National Movement Party. Here you go, Mr. Günay.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0053par0453	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal. I salute you and the Supreme Court. Turkey's Statistics Agency, let's consider the change in national computational method as part of three questions. Why was such a change, a revision? When was the last time there was a revision? What does the revision involve? Yes, Turkey's Statistical Agency is revisiting the revision of the national computation method according to the United Nations National Accounts System, and according to the European System of Accounts. The National System of Accounts is having major revisions around the world every five or seven years, covering and method changes in terms of new economic and social conditions. So Turkey does these revisions in parallel with revisions around the world every five or seven years. The main revision includes change in base year, classification, definition and coverage changes, changes in method, application and question structure, changes in source data and upgrades from legal regulations. All countries view this main revision study as an opportunity to integrate methodological changes into the system as well as to improve statistics by providing integration of new or updated data sources. TECHNIC calculations use the methodology of the European Commission's statistical unit, EUROSTAT. EUROSTAT also made changes to the European System of Accounts. As of 2014, the new methodology passed by the European Union is called ESA-2010. Turkey is updating its accounts according to the new system in Turkey to ensure international comparisons are healthy. Turkey did its last comprehensive revision of national income in 2008, so it used the national income account according to EUROSTAT (SNA-2008)'s SNA-2008 method until 2016. So, basically, it's supposed to be a hasty revision. We can't possibly agree with that. After the recent revision in 2008, it is a process planned and studied since 2013 and 2014, and the goal was set as follows: this revision, which was intended to reach the 2017-2018 period, as stated at the time, is a work of ESA-2010. Indirectly measured services have been covered, the general state classification has been updated, sector coverage and sub-fractions have been expanded, compliant with many data accounts, and Turkey's statistics and data have been brought to a level that is adaptable and comparable to the international computing system. Yeah, what does the revision involve? The headings of the ESA-1995 to ESA-2010 have also been revised under TÜİK, which are the main causes of change in all countries. Admissions of RD and weapons systems as inputs are investment spending, changing the insurance sector computational method, changing the central bank's output account, harmonising the balance of payments to transactional goods. Many subsets used in GDP calculations have been recalculated with new data. In this context, changing the method of calculating indirectly measured fiscal media services, adding software to its own account, updating general state classification, improving the unobserved economic account, changing the method of computational rent computation, changing the calculations of fixed capital consumption, improving accounts in the agricultural sector, improving accounts of non-profits, adopting new methods of computing at fixed prices. Another reason for the revision is the improvement in the calculations of the sectors in Turkey. In many sectors, input and output data have been altered, better access from tourism to agriculture, industry to construction and output calculations are done in many sectors. In 2009-based new GDP estimates, the integration of administrative records into the system has created the most important stage of revisions, both to measure growth faster and more accurately, as well as to facilitate calculating some of the indicators for the measurement of development and prosperity. So basically, this revision by TİK is a process that has been under way since the 2013-2014 period. From that time on, it is done in parallel, depending on the criteria within the international system, on which goals it aims, on what scopes it covers. It is not a rush study, and it aims to integrate statistics and data used in Turkey and Turkey into the international system, and to harmonise it with methods and data collection methods in the international system, so that data obtained in Turkey can be compared with data from abroad. It's a process that's going on, it's completely planned. My respects.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0054par0461	Thank you, Mr. Günay.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0055par0462	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0054par0463	Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0055par0464	Mr. Orator didn't refer to my speech as, I mean, he didn't mention my name, but, you know, I said it was a rushed, incendiary work, and he said it wasn't. So here you can either promise me an explanation or not to tease, that's your appreciation.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0054par0465	This isn't teasing, let's give you our word for an explanation. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0055par0469	Mr. President, that's exactly what we're saying. Of course, Emine Hanim is a person that I respect very much, but it's not like reading a note like that, it's just that we need to see this once. Second, we've lived our lives in this business. It's not a political issue, it's not something I should say and defend against. It's not something we should say. I'm saying this because I'm concerned about Turkey. Emine Hanım, look at what you say you're reading, there's a presentation of TÜİK. TÜİK says... he only did it for 2012, and he didn't do it for the rest of the years. Explains the reasons for the difference. In 2012, growth in national income was 10.8%. Look, it's very understandable. Please, if everyone listens carefully, I mean, we would really be doing something useful for the country. 10.8%, Mr. President, the rate of revision in 2012. So the national income was raised to this 110.8 in the old series in 2012 and 100 in the new series. Now, what are the sources of this, of the difference? The TÜK itself says, "Why has there been 10.8 per cent?" says here: the increase in growth due to integration between ESA-2010 and SNA-2008 is 0.7. I just said that, so if we accept this total change 100, it's only 6.7 per cent of it -- and I said 7 per cent of it -- the 93 per cent is a change that has nothing to do with the international account system. Now, in your last word, again, Ms. Emine, here, it's due to conformity to the international account system. Please, I mean, we have to be careful about this. We don't have time now to repeat each of them over and over again. For example, we call it general government accounts. Let us fear God.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0056par0474	I'll give you one more minute, please wrap it up, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0055par0475	Mr. President, I'm not talking about this for politics, believe me. Of course, we've lived our whole lives with these accounts. Now, look, it's called the harmony of general state accounts. In Turkey -- I claim -- no matter who says so -- look, after 2006, the general state accounts have significant revisions -- there has never been a revision every year. And I did those calculations, and I did them with my team, so when I said "me," it wasn't personal, it was our duty at the Ministry of Development that day, we did them. After 2006, nothing was done in general government accounts. Now, 2016, ten years later, we did this to fit in with the general state accounts. It's called, and it's still incompatible, I'm telling you. $27 billion, open and open. In the government's medium-term programme, the general state in its annual programme, between the amount of spending 2015 and the number of state spending in the series that TÜİK is now announced -- we've still done it for the benefit. They say there's 27 billion lira difference. Besides, it's not new, as I said, it's made all the way up to 2006. Its application to work is shown in ten years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, of course, this needs to be done, I need to do a series change... these need to be done every five years, even according to EUROSTAT. Why was the series changed, and why was it revised?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0057par0479	Please complete it, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0055par0480	What we're trying to say is that what is done is not acceptable in economics or statistically. So here, we've explained it, we don't have to. It's not like that. I said, for example, to soften it up, let him write up an analysis report. If this analysis report does not convince the TÜİCK markets, if it does not convince the experts of the work, let the work fall back, and let it not be a shame for the country, or the country loses its compass. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0057par0482	Thank you. In favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party, Mr. Haluk Pekşen will speak last. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0058par0489	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, when we're talking about this TÜİK....you're really blushing, but let's just say the truth in a few words. Of course, when you look at Turkey's primary agenda, the people on the street, our citizens, are talking about terror, like a big fire. After that, there's talk of hunger. In the second place of their most important agenda, there's a great deal of hunger, poverty, misery, they're spoken of. Again, another agenda that people will all add to their primary agenda is that we're talking about when 54 percent of their population is under 25 years old, and they're unemployed, and they're young, and they're desperate, and they're offering them to the field of death in the country where they turn them into a field of death. And if this country's agenda is people over middle age, what will become of this country? Statistics are being published, TİK is running statistics. Sir, one-nailed pork is fed like this... praise be to God, in your time of power, you have also managed to feed your people the pork. I congratulate you, indeed.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0059par0493	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0058par0494	But what I see now is that there is no resemblance between the agenda of Parliament and the agenda of citizens and citizens. When will this Parliament speak with the subject of the citizen, and when will he be busy with them, in fact, everyone is curious. Now, if you'll look at Parliament's problem, we're discussing the new constitution. You're looking at the new constitution, the constitution written by Abdullah Ocalan, as Mr. Gardener of State, as he called it, the villain of Imran. The new constitution is here. In fact, I listened with great admiration as I listened to Mr. State Gardener, and I was amazed, and I wondered how he knew them, and I wondered, why, I don't know, why does the State know about them and warn the community first? And then when I took this book in my hand, oh, my God, it was all told here. Ocalan, who they called the vigilante Apo, told them all about it, agreed with the AKP in 2005. We told the AKP: "We will support the European Union. In 2007, we will give you a huge support for the majority that will change the Constitution, and you will give us autonomy in return, as well as the Dolmabahça talk on May 4th after that is a continuation of this. The so-called project, which has been committed to us in terms of democratic autonomy, is the Constitutional Amendment. If you change the Constitution, if you bring the presidential system, then we will bring the solution together. He says: "I draw the PKK, the handbrake of murderers with blood on their hands." You take the KCK, hand over the municipalities in the east, the cities in the southeast, the public staff to the ACK. Then we'll support you in the presidential regime. Next thing we know, it's not that easy, there's a lot of resistance inside Turkey. Turkey's Armed Forces, the national army, were resisting. And then? The national police are also resisting. And then? The Republican People's Party has been resisting. And then? The civil society was resisting. And then? Tuncay Ozkan, who held the Republican rally, was resisting, resisting Turkey. He says: "Then we've found the solution." Now, that's when they called the cases of kumpas, and it was planned with a great union. With those conspiracy cases, all those who resisted were eliminated one by one, and there was nothing left but the Republican People's Party to resist today. Circumstances have formed now. All roads to the presidential system and the Constitutional amendment are prepared. The late Ecevit said something like this: I wonder, I haven't understood it yet, and I don't know why they gave us this Ocalan. Turns out it's known. Who knows? In 2009, a politician in the United States, a politician named David Philip, says: "Turkey must move to the new Constitution and the presidential system. You know that after that, we all have the Zarrab file on our heads, which is a big question mark. Why is this Zarrab case, for the first time in the history of American criminal law, a month's worth of singing, but ten months later, it's been passed on to a pen? We understand that today, the sword of Damocles was placed on the head of Turkey. With the Zarrab case, Turkey has been under a lot of pressure. Either you do what's necessary or you go to The Hague. Another name for saying "Zarrab" is the file. So we're looking at it now, and everyone's screaming, and it says: "The islands have been occupied in the country." We have lost the economic territory of the Mediterranean. The gas fields in the Mediterranean are gone. Turkey is trapped in Antalya Bay. Why isn't the government talking about this? He doesn't speak Aegean, he doesn't speak Cyprus. He can't speak, he can't speak, because the sword of Damocles is there and is in The Hague. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Then look at where we've come from, what we're talking about. The Constitutional amendment. You're looking at the amendments, and there's a joke inside the 126th article, and it says, "If administrative structures within the state are to be connected and cities to form a region, it has to pass through Parliament by law." What are they doing now? They lift him up, they give him authority, they say: 'Al, give him autonomy as you wish. What is the rush? What's the rush? What's the rush for? It is clear that on January 9, 10, 11th, the Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots will sit at the table in Geneva. Under worse circumstances than the Annan Plan, Turkey was forced to the table. Look, the Turkish government doesn't speak at all. The Turkish Cypriot government was also brought into this lane in desperation and was forced to sign it there on 9, 10, 11. So what does Mr. President's press spokesman say: at 12, Greece, England and Turkey will sit at the table. I understand that the President will take this authority from here with this amendment, and will go there and commit this third commitment, which means that I've given the Aegean, I've remained in power; I've given Cyprus; I've remained in power; take it, east of Turkey; I'll give it to you, just as long as you keep me in power. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, the summation of the statement is actually from Mr. State Gardener. I followed Mr. Gardenie's speeches with great admiration, and I took note of some of them. Honourable lawmakers say on January 20, 2015 that Mr. Bahçeli's request for the presidency of Erdoğan is contrary to the parliamentary regime. In PKK and separatist circles, Erdogan seems to be pushing to be the only man to be the head of the ver presidency. Again, on May 8th, he says: "This constitutional amendment is the constitution of division." Again, on May 9th, he says: "This constitutional amendment means federation, meaning division." It's not the Constitution, it's the fundamental law of division. (HPP cheers) It goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and I'm signing under all that you're saying. If you're behind what you're saying, make sure you have the entire Republican People's Party group on your side. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. Then let's get to the finals. Now, honorable lawmakers, Mr. Bahçeli says again: you can change the name of the presidential system and call it a party presidential system, but trust me, that's not something that we, the National Party of Action, will never consent to. I say, Mr. Bahçeli, recognizes you as a leader of the Turkish people's promise. So, how do you explain this, the villain of the Imran -- your definition -- is cornered by Erdogan and you three, side by side? I believe that beneath this project, the nationalists of this country, the leaders of this country, the patriots of this country, the intellectuals of this country, the lovers of this country, no one will sign. This is not a constitution; this is Turkey's division project. I'm showing you this one more time to make a note of history.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0060par0504	It's not your place to say those words, okay?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0058par0505	This is a major attack on the conscience of the Turkish people.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0060par0506	It's not your place. You're gonna be careful when you talk, you're gonna be honest, you're not gonna go out there and do a show, you're not gonna do a perception operation.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0058par0507	Today the constitutions... the British wrote the German Constitution, the Americans wrote the Japanese Constitution. We'll see if the Constitution of Turkey will be written by Ocalan or by the Turkish people.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0061par0508	Mr. Pekshen, please watch your language.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0060par0509	You're not going to operate on perception, you're going to watch your mouth.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0058par0510	Turkish people will write Turkey's Constitution. I salute you all with love. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0062par0513	Mr. Pekşen, please... it is not fitting for you to equate Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Bahçeli, and Ocalan, in İmralı.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0058par0514	I haven't evened it, sir. I've detected the situation.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0062par0515	Please...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0063par0516	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0062par0517	Sir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0063par0518	You have no right to comment on such matters according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0062par0519	I do.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0064par0520	I do.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0063par0521	No, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0062par0522	I do.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0065par0523	I do.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0063par0524	You can't. You can't do any fun apps.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0062par0525	I will, I am a citizen of this Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0065par0526	He'll do it, he'll do it.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0063par0527	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0066par0528	Yes, sir. He's the Deputy Speaker, he can do it.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0065par0529	The villain in the Imralı cannot be identified with any political party leader here, the MP.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0063par0530	In this country, you praised Apoh the most.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0067par0531	Please...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0063par0532	Please... you have no right.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0067par0533	I am a citizen of this Republic of Turkey, and I am currently running the General Assembly. I'm in charge.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0063par0534	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0067par0535	This chair doesn't deserve you to say those words, please...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0068par0536	You should know your place! You act with the terrorist leader, then you talk.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0063par0537	It's obvious who's acting with the terrorist leader.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0068par0538	Obviously, you're moving.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0069par0539	We know who went to the PKK's funeral.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0070par0540	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0071par0541	Mr. Elitaş, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0072par0542	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0071par0543	I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0073par0544	I'd like to speak against the nationalist movement group's proposal. Mrs. Tülay gave it to me.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0071par0545	Now it was already there. I will give you my word in place of Tülay Kaynarca, only Mr. Ustah has a request for a word.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0074par0546	I've got a demand for sarcasm.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0071par0547	Mr. Master, please, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0074par0548	Now...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0075par0549	For God's sake, he jumps at everything.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0071par0550	I hear what you're saying.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0075par0551	Mr. President, you can't make that comment according to 64. You can't!
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0076par0552	He'll do it.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0071par0553	I don't jump at everything, so watch your language.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0075par0554	You guys be careful.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0071par0555	I'm interfering, I'm not jumping.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0075par0556	You can't break this Civil Code here.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0071par0557	Please watch your language, behave.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0075par0558	You will be careful, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0077par0559	He's paying attention.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0071par0560	Behave yourself.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0075par0561	Don't insult my manners.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit01spe0071par0562	I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0071par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. MP Mustafa Elitaş of Kayseri will speak against the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0078par0003	Mr. President, before that, there's a feeling that our congressman may have been misunderstood or used a statement that went beyond his intent in the matter that had just caused the debate. Our congressman would like to correct that perception, if you'd be so kind.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0071par0004	Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0079par0007	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, my speech is all about the narrative of a project. As a lawyer, as a careful-talking lawyer, I've never preferred a way of speaking to anyone who would be politically accused and labelable, and I'd rather not do that. I don't understand the sensitivity of Mr. State Gardener. Why? And the fellow nationalists obviously didn't listen very carefully because what I'm saying is that we've heard the first and correct information from Mr. Gardeny. All of what Mr. Bahçeli said is true and naturally, we embrace that fact and follow this amendment after today. I have pointed out that Mr. Bahçeli would not fall into such a trap, nor would the Nationalist Movement Party, nor the nationalists, nor the archipelago, be involved in this trap. There's no mean to offend anyone, and there's no wrong sentence.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0071par0009	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0080par0010	He's confirming, there's no correction.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0071par0011	Mr. Altay, do you have anything to add?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0081par0012	Add it to that, yes.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0071par0013	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0081par0015	Mr. President, both the General Assembly and our nation know the perspective of Abdullah Ocalan of the People of the State Garden. Our congressman's intention is to stand side by side with the State Garden and Abdullah Ocalan. Isn't that right, Mr. Pekşen?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0082par0016	Exactly.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0081par0017	There's no such perception. That's how it's been perceived, members of the National Movement Party have naturally reacted. We have no such understanding, nor does our party have such an understanding, nor does Mr. Pekşen. We also know Mr. Bahçeli's attitude toward Ocalan, and the public also knows his attitude. That's the intention, that's the situation. On the other hand, there's a phrase written in the transcripts. It's not you, it's not your witness, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0083par0019	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Master, will you speak?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0084par0021	Yeah, there's a tease.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0083par0022	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0084par0026	Mr. President, my recommendation to Mr. Haluk is that he continue to admire and listen to the State Bey again. Neither our president, Mr. State Gardener nor the National Movement Party, has ever been wrong in the country's policies, and there has been no breaking in our line. Whatever we said yesterday, we stand by it all, for once, there is no hesitation in it; this is how it should be seen. The State Gardener is a man of his word and he stands by his word. But we also need to distinguish between the conditions of that day and today's amendment and today's constitutional amendment. Now, in the present environment, is there an argument in the first four articles of the Constitution? No. Is there a debate about Turkey's unitary structure? No. Is there a Federation system in this Constitution, in this change, any discussion? No. The State Gardens and the National Movement Party, let's just say, has ruled all of this out in this political operation. This is a very serious gain for Turkey; this is how we must see it. Also, after July 15th, friends, we need to see some of Turkey's conditions change. What do we all say? Turkey faces problems at beka level. In this sense, we need to permanently remove debates on the government system from Turkey's agenda, and we need to eliminate problems or risks related to those first four substances or unitary structures. And he's off Turkey's agenda. Otherwise, if we're going to do politics here, we can remind the Republican People's Party to take care of your MPs at the funerals of the PKK. At your meetings, we remind you that the posters of Abdullah Ocalan and posters of Ataturk will come together. I mean, how can you talk to a leader who's put ideas, ideas about Turkey, projects, when it's all in the middle? We can't make any of this up.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0085par0031	You're wrong.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0084par0032	Look, after June 7th, the National Movement Party, because of its sensitivity, in a sense, pushed the coalition, the government, its partnership, out of hand. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let us remind you of those who roamed the middle of the street on that day, saying 60 percent block. We have also stated that we will not be in that bloc in any way, that this will not be in Turkey's best interest; you need to see these. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0086par0036	Thank you, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0087par0037	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0086par0038	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0087par0039	Now, I don't want to talk about bullying, but none of our MPs have been to the funeral of any PKK terrorist organization except that our Istanbul MP, Sezgin Tanrıkulu, went to the funeral of the Diyarbakır Bar President -- which is quite normal. I want this on the record. PKK flags and all that, they're photomontages. The Republican People's Party has its views on the PKK and Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0088par0042	Thank you. Amasya MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı will finally speak against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0089par0049	Mr. President, dear friends, the Commission is now negotiating the issue of the presidential system. Before we started these talks, we met with the members of the CHP's representative group, as well as with the members of the group, the members of the MPHP, to continue the negotiations in a civilized manner, and to find a logical, rational, literary, literary way to analyze what is happening in this framework, what is being done in this framework, what is being done in such an provocative way, what is being said in favor of this system, what kind of objection or what is in favor of this system, what is being said in terms of provocacation, what is being said or what is being done in the history, what is happening in the context of Turkey, what they think is going to be a cold-blooded analysis. We talked about it. Now, the CHP has been positioned on this presidential system since the beginning. Against him for various reasons. In fact, when this opposition was set up as this Constitutional Commission, and was established as its continuation in the 24th and later period, you could not even propose to the CHP in the first place, you could not bring it, you could not bring it. He took an approach to this issue. I wish we could talk back then, but no, we passed, we're talking now. We know that if the Constitutional texts, of course, have to be with the participation and negotiation of all the layers of society. But if you can't agree on a text that will bring all the layers together, you're trying to form the possible partnership, politics is the art of possible, and in this effort, it's basically the text that we think is exactly what we don't think, probably because the two political parties are coming together, what can be agreed on together, a negotiation in this framework was created, and that text is now in the commission. We expect the CHP to make its contributions here, in a way that we can parenthesize past debates and assessments, and in a way that will allow information to go public for the rest of the time to be sound, and we hope. CHP is one of the major parties in Turkey's politics, and waiting for this contribution is not just the citizens who voted for CHP, but everyone's job, everyone's expectations. Now, Mr. Peksen's coming here, so... okay, you may be against the presidential system, but this is not an analysis, it's not a civilized contribution if you're presenting a person who's been presented as leader of a terrorist organization, as leader, and a political party who's seen the president and the president of the Republic of Turkey side by side with each other, and this whole situation of coming together claims to have meaning around the presidential system. Is that necessary? Does CHP need this? I'm sure there are friends inside the CHP who are extremely valuable, and whatever these objections are, will make them very rational. As a matter of fact, they're doing it in the Commission, we're waiting for them to do it in the General Assembly. But in the end, we're going to talk here, and the final decision will be made by the people we owe our legitimacy to and ours. It's our job to make sure that people get proper information, and to preserve this environment in a way that is as good a communication as possible. Away from provocation, provocation, slogan, stereotypes, really, it's our duty to negotiate with you in a language that tells you what the offer is. So we think there's a problem with style here, so you have to pay attention to that language. Of course, it's not just the CHP's business, it's all our business, it's our duty to provide that civilized negotiating environment in parliament. I hope that, from now on, a language that will serve our purpose when we evaluate these issues will accompany us to a course of attention that is directed at the environments that are directed at us to provoke them, avoiding an attitude that is directed at them to anger. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0090par0057	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0091par0059	In his speech, Mr. Orator, speaking to the Republican People's Party in a provocative manner...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0092par0060	Not the People's Party, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0090par0061	He didn't speak to the Republican People's Party, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0091par0062	That's what you said.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0092par0063	On the contrary...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0091par0064	No, you made it clear.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0092par0065	No, he's definitely a preacher, so no.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0091par0066	There's a criticism against our teacher.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0093par0067	He didn't say anything about the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0092par0068	On the contrary, he's going to make such beautiful speeches inside the People's Party...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0091par0069	There are other taunts, Mr. President. He also gave a speech that caused confusion in public and in the interests of our citizens watching the Assembly, stating that they expected to contribute to the Republican People's Party but did not contribute, and I have to answer.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0094par0070	You're the ones who get confused all the time.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0095par0071	Here you go, two minutes. [[Applause from CHP rows]] By the way, Mr. Altay, the reports have arrived.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0096par0076	Sir, I salute the General Assembly. For the good of this nation, for the good of this country, what did we not give as the Republican People's Party? When the budget was being discussed, if there was a way to stop the blood while terrorists were slaughtering our martyrs, didn't we say that we'd be willing to spend the budget in a day if you asked the House to? As the Republican People's Party, while we have not been able to crown our republic with democracy for sixty-six years, we are willing to contribute to democracy, to the parliamentary system. I promise that in front of 80 million citizens. But we will not contribute to one man's rule in Turkey, to the unity of forces system. I don't know if Mr. Elitaş is here, but Mr. Doğan Bey, as the commission phase began, we said: "We will present our views, our arguments as the People's Party of the Republic, but no one from the Republican People's Party will see in this process the calm of the Assembly, the positive climate." Didn't we say that? Is there any change in our attitude? No. What's with the provocative tone, that's what it's all about? We have a position in the commission stage, we say what we think; we have an attitude in the General Assembly stage, we say what we think. If he passes through here -- not according to me, but -- if he gets 330 and more votes, he'll go to the discretion of our beloved nation. There, we'll tell you our understanding in the squares. That's all there is to it. Don't stress it, you're thinking of consolidating a certain percentage of society by making a policy of tension, but the part of that console now says: "These things have upset the taste of the work." For your information. I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0097par0081	Thank you. I submit to your votes the proposal of the National Party for Action: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, now, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 21/12/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 12 February 2016, the declaration of the massacre of those who planned and offered political support on 19-24 December 1978 by Diyarbakır MP Mr. Çağlar Demirel and Diyarbakır MP Mr. İdris Baluken was proposed to the Turkish Assembly to be read on 21/12/2016 Wednesday and to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly in the same session and to be read on 21/12/2016. Peoples' Democratic Party's group proposal will be the first to speak in favour of Adana MP, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0098par0099	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. On the anniversary of December 19, 1978, we have a motion to investigate the Maraş massacre, and I have made a pledge on behalf of my group. Indeed, December 19, 1978, still very important in memory, one of the massacres in our recent past and one of the traumas is considered to be the beginning of the dark road leading to the coup of September 12th. If we go back thirty-eight years, it's 21 a.m. on the night of December 19th. A group of racists from Turkoglu district of Kahramanmarash, who came from Turkoğlu province of Kahramanaş, who had the power to provoke the audience to attack the Republican People's Party building with slogans and slogans of Islam. Following the bomb, Ökkeş Kenger, who was alleged to have dropped the bomb on orders from the Ülkist Youth Association (ÜGD) Heromarash Branch head Mehmet Leblebici and Second President Mustafa Kandrerere, called for help in our research. I mean, the people who dropped the bomb and led this massacre were so out of control that they were asking for help. The following day, the sequence of events continued. A factory was bombed where Alevis lived. On December 21st, two teachers, members of the Union and Solidarity Association, were killed. On December 22nd, a group of people attacked the people carrying the funeral of these two teachers, who were provoked by racist groups, who said, "There is no prayer for the funeral of the communists, the Alevis." The Imam of the Covenant Mosque -- you've certainly read it in the archives -- and Mustafa Yildiz, in his Friday sermon, gave the same advice: "A fasting is not a pilgrimage to prayer. Whoever kills a Flame earns the reward as if he's been on a pilgrimage five times. All our brothers and sisters must rise up against the government and the communists, the heathens. We will wipe out Alevis and Sunni of CHP who are around us and the unbeliefs who are around us. The attackers, who have not encountered the intervention of the security forces, have walked to the city market and destroyed the Aleki businesses. Three of our citizens were killed in the shootings again. On the night of December 22nd, the fascists mobilized the masses in the Sunni neighborhoods -- the next day -- telling them that the leftist Alevis would attack with guns. On December 23, the events of Kahramanmarash became a massacre against all opponents and Alevis. The curfew was declared on December 24th, but everyone was on the street except law enforcement. It was as if the curfew had been declared against law enforcement. Yeah, well, in the circumstances, when racist groups brought in new armed groups from surrounding villages and counties, a massive inhuman massacre was no longer preventable. The killer of Alevi goes to heaven. There has been a great massacre in his speech and a great trauma that still exists in our social memory. According to official figures, 105 Alevi citizens lost their lives during the seven-day events, more than 200 digits belonging to Alevi citizens were destroyed, and nearly 100 ▪ were destroyed. According to the prosecutor's office, the number of people involved in the massacre was 1,350, and 752 were arrested in the first place. Twenty-three years of these cases. As a result of these cases, 22 people were sentenced to death, 7 were sentenced to life imprisonment, 321 were sentenced to one to 24 years. 68 people claimed to have played a crucial role in the massacre have not been reached. As part of the 1991 Anti-Terror Law, the penalty for those who were sentenced was suspended, while some of the responsible were also released. The Maraş massacre was actually accepted by a large group as one of the events that led to the coup of September 12th. If we look at a short panorama of that period, this is the view we're going to see: on March 16, 1978, a bomb was dropped on the University of Istanbul, and five students died right there, unfortunately, and 50 students were injured. They had to take a break from college education for a while. On April 15, 1978, three students were killed in Malatya, Ankara and Kahramanmarash. After a series of bombings and marking the homes of Alevi citizens had become almost common at that time. Meanwhile, at that time, Alparslan Türkesh was in an influx of people at Kahramanmarash. While he was making statements, Prime Minister Kahramanmarash of the period stated that the necessary measures had been taken. On the other hand, we often witnessed the incidents of the opposition who had been killed on the grounds that they had hung the May 1 poster. Basically, the initial tremors of the Maraş massacre were actually coming, but there were no precautions, and the provocative provocations of the public were being carried out indefinitely, and the citizens of Alevi were being targeted in these provocations. So, what happened in such a huge amount of time over the last 38 years? Is there anything really different today from 1978 to today that we've come down the road to the June 7, 2015 elections? Have we faced the past? Don't we add new pain and trauma to our memory instead of wrapping it up? For thirty-eight years, our Alevi citizens still have this effect, this threat of slaughter, and they hear these calls in their ears and feel them in their hearts. For example, the possibility that Jihadist gang members who have committed massacres against Alevi, from the Middle East, among the refugees who will be placed in the camps, may be able to infiltrate another critical dimension. As a whole in the Alevi community, it is among the allegations that the atmosphere, which is the basis for painful events such as Marash, Çorum, Malatya, Sivas, is being kept alive, especially during various times, when hatred has been reflected in the media as a result of the segregation of the ruling politicians towards the Alevi community. However, satisfying answers are unlikely to be able to say that necessary measures have been taken. For example, why are the memorials of the Maraş massacre banned? Why do Alevi citizens, democratic mass organizations, different civil society organizations and democratic forces who want to commemorate the massacre every year, and why are they not allowed to remember their relatives, their children, their children, their children, and their demands to face this massacre? We haven't been able to answer that question. Even today, the houses are still marked, there are allegations and pictures. We have to imagine together how great the anxiety of those exposed to discrimination is in the focus of hate crimes when the targets of Alevi citizens, opponents, leftists, Kurds are being targeted. Besides, I'm not talking about a target made unconscious by an ordinary citizen who's being targeted by the government, and the Home Secretary doesn't allow for a moment to express his hate speech, share it. We suggest that the Home Secretary and those who call for revenge read a date because our history is so full of trauma. That's what we're talking about now, when millions of people are living under the threat of slaughter, or at any moment, under the threat of security. Yes, HDP county buildings are being brutally burned by the mob today. Citizens are being attacked by other citizens because they speak Kurdish. The areas where Alevi citizens live are reserved for refugees, and while their homes are still marked, no doubt the most responsible is the current government, which guides political rhetoric. Finally, I'd like to say that the night of September 12th, which is still the night terror of the Maraş massacre and the first quakes of this massacre, continues. That's why I'm saying that we have no way of confronting and discussing traumas together, other than preventing punishment. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0099par0112	Thank you. The People's Democratic Party will speak first against the group's proposal, Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor of Kahramanmarash. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0100par0116	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on the motion regarding the heroic events of Kahramanmarash. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Today, in Operation Firat Shield, four of our soldiers were killed and 15 of our soldiers were wounded. May God have mercy on our martyrs, and my condolences on our wounded. Again, my condolences to the family of Russian Federation Ambassador Andrei Karlov, who was murdered two days ago, and to the Russian people. It's our greatest wish to make it clear as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, the events of Kahramanmarash occurred on December 19-24, 1978, when everyone was deeply upset. Like yesterday, our country's most important issue today is separatist terrorism. The separatist terror has shown its face in a different way in each period, continuing its actions in other forms. It is sad that our country did not survive the open attacks of terrorist organizations today, that the state did not fully end separatist terrorism, but it is recently considered the purposes of terrorism, that 45 martyrs in Istanbul and 14 martyrs in Kayseri have to be focused on more than ever. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there is no doubt that today's terrorist incidents, which we have no doubt have no purpose but to divide our country. Because with Turkey's population of 80 million, its rise to a high-tech, exporting position, its rise to 30,000, 40,000 dollars per million per million, in short, its development in the geography will not please any Western, Eastern, Middle Eastern country. And for these reasons, the dominant forces have been involved in our country's internal affairs, and they've taken every means to prevent its development and development -- it's called Kahramanmarash events, other events -- and I think it's important to look at things from this window. Without looking at things from a wider perspective, without revealing the purpose of terrorism, there will be no understanding of events. It will be easier to deal with separatist activities, methods, and techniques that manifest terror when we fully reveal the purpose of terrorism. Dear MPs, the events of Kahramanmarash, allegedly one of the reasons for the coup on September 12th, were the night of the coup on September 12th. President, the Turkish Army's command team has seized the administration in Ankara. There's no need to worry. He interfered with whom he needed to intervene. In his statement, he must also be called on 9/11 when Air Force Commander Tahsin Şahinkaya comes back from the United States. The claim of the former mayor of Istanbul, Mr. Bedrettin Dalan, that the coup was predetermined, that the coup was not deliberately carried out on anarchy so that it could be seen legitimately in the eyes of the people should not be ignored, nor should his statement be ignored. We believe that the coup of September 12 was carried out with the knowledge and support of the United States, and terrorism was tolerated to justify the coup. This is the most important reason for the rise of terror, the rise of terror, which is to justify the coup of September 12th. If the reign of terror organizations had not been allowed to tolerate their actions to intimidate those who were not themselves, those who did not pay tributes, Marxist-Leninist, Maocu separatists, Kurdish separatists, if they had been able to fight effectively, there would have been no unwanted incidents anywhere else. On December 27, Radio France Internationale referred to the role of foreign secret services, particularly the Central Intelligence Agency CIA, in the events of Kahramanmarash. The BBC, on the other hand, shows that perhaps it is Turkey's turn to fall into chaos and uncertainty after the heroic events, Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iran. More and more people, including Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit, point out the danger of civil war. We have no doubt that what was done in Egypt today, in Tunisia, in Iraq, in Syria, yesterday, was intended to be done in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, this issue has been discussed hundreds of times on different platforms, particularly the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, 38 years ago. As to our country's situation, I would like to point out that we need to be very careful when we talk about it on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and that our country needs it today. The matter has been brought to judgment, and it has been judged with its crookedness. Thirty-eight years later today, no one has anything to gain. The Marxist-Leninist who provoked the events, except for the Maoist separatist altars, I ask God's mercy for all those who have passed away. The MHP considers all members of the Turkish nation to be the most honorable of men, not to have a single member of the nation touch a stone. Our country's Alemi (Alemi) believes that it is a whole and a brother with its Sunni (Sunni). Dear MPs, the most important issue of these Maraş events is what I just said, which is that Interior Minister Irfan Özadýllı of the period had either resigned or resigned after these events, and Hasan Fehmi was the Minister of the Interior of the Sun. Interior Minister Irfan Özalightlı is very important in the cases of Maraş, where he was resigned. Ýrfan Özalightlı had assigned a special team to bring the matter to light. The details of the task force were submitted to the Ministry of Interior, but the content of the report was never released. However, it is well known that Interior Minister Irfan Özalightlı, who has been closely monitoring the events, said that events were a result of leftist provocation. He was resigned because of that statement. I'd like to talk about the declarations and the statement and the interview of Brigadier General Tayyar Aygur. The declaration that a person named Garbis Altınoğlu has been identified in the incidents, that if this person is not among the dead, he will soon burn the head of another province is crucial to the commander of martial law. We've got everything from left, guns, bullets, documents, all of them, and we've even identified an Armenian named Garbis. If this person isn't among the dead, he may soon burn another province. I hope that's one of the seven uncircumcisions who died. Besides, I know who pulled the trigger. There's one of the perpetrators of the murder of the Ark, an Armenian named Garbis Altınyan, known here as Dr. Mustafa. It was organized in the area of Elbistan-Afşin. He's the one who started all this. One of the organisers of the heromarash events was the leader of the Revolutionary People's Union, Armenian-based Garbis Altınoğlu. Garbis Altınoglu is notable in showing who is responsible for the incidents, who are Turkey's enemies, and how foreign forces intervene. The leader of the Revolutionary People's Union, one of the organisers of the heromarash events, Armenian-based Garbis Altınoglu, has been sentenced to death in the Military Court of martial law on Adana. In recent years, there have been allegations that Syrian secret intelligence organizations were involved in the events of Kahramanmarash. The main reason for the brutal war in the Middle East today is that it provokes sects, dear friends; this is what happened in Syria today, this is what happened in Iraq, and we need to see this. At times, this is what is being provoked in our country. We must never come to this game, we must act in silence. We, the Nationalist Movement Party, are against all kinds of sectal provocations, and we believe we are against all divisive provocations, Alevi, Sunni, brother and sister. I'd like to say that, of course, sad events have taken place -- thirty-eight years have passed, and it has cost history. I don't think it would do us any good to bring them here again and again. What we need to be on our guard here is that we should never allow such provocations, sectarian provocations. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0101par0133	Thank you, Mr. Tor. The People's Democratic Party has proposed a group...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0102par0135	Mr. President, sir, the speaker has just mentioned a secret report from the Republican People's Party Minister of the period and that the leftists have provoked these events. This information is wrong, I want to correct it. First of all, a report like this has not been leaked to the public, this information is not real and it is not true; this is the first one. Second: Mr. Özalightlı, then as Home Secretary, has fulfilled his political responsibility in the face of this tragedy. As it is today, today there is a massacre in Suruç, and no one has claimed political responsibility. He exhibited an example. Something like that, as the minister said, the Republican People's Party minister certainly doesn't have that report.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0103par0138	Well, thank you, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0104par0139	Mr. President, I'm speaking on the record.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0103par0140	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0104par0141	Ýrfan Özalightlı has been resigned, and has been resigned after such remarks.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0105par0142	Sir, it's not rhetoric, there's no such report. Now, you can say all kinds of things.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0104par0143	He claimed that left-wing organisations had organized it, that he was then resigned; that he had not been resigned immediately after the events; that he had been resigned after the statements. I want him on the record.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0106par0145	Now, Mr. Tor says the Minister has been resigned, and you say that's not the case.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0107par0146	Sir, Ýrfan Özalightlı...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0106par0147	The solution to this isn't here, we can't solve this right now.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0107par0148	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0106par0149	There's no point in discussing this right now.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0107par0150	Sir, I'm a witness.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0106par0151	What you have said has been made into the reports, and what Mr. Tor has said has been made into the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0107par0152	Mr. President, I'd also like to point out that Mr. Secretary of the Interior Balıkesir was a congressman at the time, and we were students. Mr. Secretary and I have one-on-one conversations, which is absolutely out of the question. He resigned on the basis of political responsibility for the suffering of the people.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0106par0153	Okay, fine. Let's keep the credit to those watching. In favour of the group proposal of Peoples' Democratic Party, İstanbul MP İlhan Cihaner will speak last. Here you are, Mr. Cihaner.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0108par0157	On Sunday, December 24, 1978, around ten o'clock on Sunday, we will root out an aggressive group of communists, with Mehmet Yemşen, the neighborhood's head of Fevzi Majestic. Don't say big and small, crush the communists' heads. They were screaming. The mayor had a gun and a flag. The others had weapons, explosives, gas, gas, assault kits. They stormed my house, broke the door in. They took my husband in the room and took him out into the garden. So I ran out from behind them. Don't do it, don't kill my husband, don't put my children in the square. The priest turned to me, and said, "Take away your children, and let the black man feed them, and I will sacrifice your husband in the way of Karason." When I asked him, "Who is the dark man?," he replied, "Ecevit." They tortured my husband to death right in front of me. I hugged my husband when he was killed, and I was covered in blood. When I said, "O chief, what are you doing?" he said, "We cooked, we cooked; let the communists come and eat all the time." This time, the attackers surrounded his house to take away my brother Hussein Toklu, who lived near us, and brought my brother out of the inside. Again I begged the chief, and I cried, and thou slewest my husband, and I begged him not to kill my brother. As for the mayor, I also sacrifice the king's way to Karason. This year we shall sacrifice the way of the Karason, and it is the day of the festival. He said, "They have tortured and killed my brother Hussein. Then they went to the house of the very old Garden of Eden, who sat before us and did not see an eye. They took this woman out of her hand, saying, Come, Nene. The Lady of Paradise was unaware of those who were killed and burned because she saw nothing and was old. They cut out the eyes of the accused, Friday Yalçın and Nuri Bull, with their screwdriver, and the eyes of the Lady of Heaven -- 80 years old; and then they shot and killed. And they cast their heads over the pit of the toilet near him, and overturned him the chariot. Then they burned down our house and all the other houses. Go, let me save you. He took me away. We walked for a while. Suddenly my heart was stuck, and I couldn't walk, and he left me. This is the testimony of one of the victims based on the Maras indictment and his verdict. Now, I started with this in particular -- my goal is not to separate the agitation or some pain from the concepts that have passed there, like those who just spoke, but the opposite is to find that the dynamics of the most fragile period of our history are right there. First of all, we need to find a truth. It's certainly politically approachable, but first we're going to build a truth, and then we're going to figure out how to make a political comment on it. You can also call it "the real thing" in terms of criminal law. I mean, first, who did this here, who's responsible for provoking these actions? Now, the speaker, who spoke for the MHP, actually laid the groundwork for voting on this proposal. There's no CIA in the indictment or the verdict, no Tahsin Şahinkaya, no Marxist-Leninists like you said. As far as I know, there is no Garbis Altınoğlu. Besides, Garbis Altınoglu is a man who has been in prison since two months ago when these notorious murders took place. But, in order for us to leave this language, maybe we need this research proposal. You asked for mercy in your speech, except for the Marxist-Leninists. Turkey must now abandon these tensions, this language of hate. Or you've used the concept of unsubstantiated. You can imagine how this concept would have an impact on our non-Muslim citizens. The last language we need right now is this language. In the same way, Mr. Naci Bostancı taught very well on the stand here, but I think it would be better if he gave this warning to the MPs, for example, Aydın Ünal, earlier. Look, you're talking about nationalism, you're talking about the concept of nationality, the concept of domesticity, you're talking about tolerance, you're talking about the spirit of innovation, you're saying we need to get together; it's true, we need to get together. Even though the Republican People's Party has stood by you long enough to risk its own base, or even its political mind, your MPs are constantly terrorizing the Republican People's Party... that happens from time to time, that happens to be the PKK, and that's where you bring it slowly and slowly to ISIS. But know that this language is at the root of the destructions in the Middle East. You can say that when you're in a place where you're told, or where you're writing, you can say that, but just two days ago, the path to the murder of the Russian ambassador is exactly the way it's paved with language. So be consistent for once. If you really want unity in Turkey, you can't use this kind of rhetoric here, with pay trolls, social media, or the language of academics you pay for, you can't do Alevi hostility, Kurdish hostility. Or when a bomb goes off, then you can't torch the wreaths of the Republican People's Party, the buildings of the Republican People's Party, even the buildings of HDP, who are doing legal politics. If it's arson, please accept that a step ahead is Syria, Aleppo. Speaking of Aleppo, look, children have been dying in Aleppo since 2011, but Aleppo suddenly became your primary priority. You had already had an affair with Aleppo, at the point of capture. But over Aleppo, an incredible segregation, hatred, and hostile language began to be used. We know the reason for this is that some of the warriors in Aleppo have been drawn to El Bab. We know it was done to cover up this crime. But, if you see how this is reflected inside, how it might reflect, now, with the violence of Marash, the subject of this research proposal, the potential of this potential on different axis on Turkey's soil, please do so on purpose. Because if this uncontrollable violence is itchy and unstoppable, we're in a much more violent situation. One example of this is exactly what the preacher who spoke for the HDP said -- a camp in Terolar village, or rather a village in the Terolar region, in the village of Niscehük. Now, when there are so many citizens here, the background of such an event has not been uncovered, you should at least see what a population injection can do in the future that transforms both the population structure and the sociological structure. Now, one of the concepts that you use most when reading another Turkey is one of the key concepts is that recently the Fetullahist construction. You're going to take the fetullahism almost to the founding of the republic, which I think is very, very far behind. But, since he's wanted under everything like this... for example, you allowed the Russian ambassador to have a team in Russia to participate in the investigation, which is not in the law, which is against the principle of possession of criminal law, but it's given to him, perhaps, in order to reassure him politically, it's acceptable. Even though it has no legal basis, come and share information with us. You're so national that you don't allow a joint investigation, investigation of a massacre that occurred in 78 with lawmakers who came to Parliament with the votes of this nation, but you do give this opportunity to Russia, which you've made enemies until yesterday, even by becoming enemies over communism, which is slowly starting to relocate. If that's your idea of nationalism, we're gonna have a lot more problems. I think it's really important to create a spirit of unity in order to prevent the language that will lead Turkey to a possible ethnic and religious conflict -- here -- Turkey's practice of innocency, this concept of mind that you use so much in Turkey. I agree that it really is the role of the CIA. Let's bring it out. What a great opportunity. The upper mind was there, the upper mind was in Maraş, and he insisted on using someone. For example, it may not be wanted to be spent here -- like the Eucharist Parades -- I think it was Kenger. -- but it may not be wanted to be named after a certain political movement. That's right, we don't need that right now, but since you believe so much, let's investigate, let's explore, let's build a new spirit of unity over this. Thank you for listening. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0109par0168	Thank you, Mr. Cihaner.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0110par0169	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0109par0170	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0110par0171	Just now, as the preacher spoke, my goal was not to isolate like those who just spoke. According to Article 69...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0109par0173	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0110par0174	Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor will speak.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0109par0175	Mr. Tor, I assume you'll be speaking. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0111par0179	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, have considered my speech a separation. I would never accept such an assessment. If you read our election statement, our commitments in the election statement, you'll see how we like all the parts of society, how we count them. I particularly recommend you read our election statement. Now, in my speech, I spoke of the declarations of the martial law commander, the martial law commander of the era, the man's findings, the press's findings; I didn't say anything else, I didn't.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0112par0181	I meant mercy and circumcision.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0111par0182	Sure. Then, at that time of Irfan Özalightlı, I knew that time well, and I followed it very closely as a local person, and I don't really agree with the deputy or what you're saying. He was resigned for saying so, but you might think so.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0113par0184	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0111par0185	I'm not saying anything, it's my opinion. Here's another matter... of course, the most important issue here is the function of the leader of this Revolutionary People's Union, the Armenian-based Garbis Altınoğlu, Altınyan.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0114par0187	Let's just look into it.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0111par0188	Yeah... As a matter of fact, he was later sentenced to death by Adana martial law command. That's what I said.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0114par0190	Not in Maraş.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0111par0191	The group he belongs to is called the League of Revolutionary People, and this person is the leader of the organization. The League of Revolutionary People, I said that, I said nothing more. Dear MPs, I say this: 44-45 soldiers in Istanbul, civilian citizens dead, martyred. In Kayseri, 14-15 times... who did all this?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0114par0193	Let's investigate...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0111par0194	It's obvious who's accepted it. That's what they wanted to do yesterday. They didn't make it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This isn't about an Alevi-Sunni conflict. I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0114par0197	Okay, let him come out.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0115par0198	Thank you, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0111par0199	Here's the thing, I'm telling you... I'm tidying up my sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0115par0201	Please.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0111par0202	I mean, in a social event, there could be a lot of bad things that don't want to happen. It's not right to judge a whole county, a whole community, by bringing examples of those terrible events here.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0116par0203	We're looking into it, we're looking into it. Let's look into it. It's better. When it comes to research, there isn't.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0111par0204	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0117par0205	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0118par0206	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0117par0207	In his speech, Mr. Cihaner made an assessment that could mean that we attacked the CHP buildings, the buildings of the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP).
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0118par0208	The party didn't say his name.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0119par0209	No, I didn't mention the name of the party.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0117par0210	Because he said it was you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0119par0211	No, I didn't mean you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0120par0212	Okay, he said he didn't mean it.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0119par0213	It's just a reaction...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0121par0214	I've committed it. He says it.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0120par0215	I didn't mean it. He says it.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0119par0216	No, I'm saying I didn't.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0121par0217	He says he doesn't mean it.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0122par0218	No, Mr. Cihaner may have spoken in general, but when you use the subject, naturally...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0119par0219	He's an abstract, Mr. Bostanci, an abstract, used by rhetoric.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0122par0220	If you give me an opportunity on this occasion, Mr. President, I don't mean to start a new taunt, I just mean...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0123par0221	Mr. Bostanci has made it clear that only Mr. Cihaner did not mean the Justice and Development Party's group. If you're going to make another statement beyond that...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0119par0222	On the contrary, just because you're talking so soft in here...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0123par0223	Mr. Cihaner, I can't hear you, please.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0124par0224	Mr. President, then...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0123par0225	Mr. President, if you're going to make a statement about anything else...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0124par0226	Like this, for the record. No one in this country can replace themselves with the state and the law, and this business has its institutions. Attacking party buildings -- whatever its name is -- is not something we can accept. The most basic quality of the state is to defend these institutions entrusted to it. That's the way I want it, that's the way I judge it. They can't go anywhere and destroy it. It's our duty to protect the state of law; it's one. We can criticize HDP (HDP) and they can criticize us, but the party buildings will not be attacked.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0123par0228	Of course.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0124par0229	Assault on CHP buildings is never acceptable.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0123par0230	Of course.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0124par0231	CHP is the main opposition party, there is a way of reading about Turkey's issues, but it cannot be associated with a terrorist organization in any way; we will not accept it, that's our party's opinion. On the other hand, Mr. Cihaner read a passage at the beginning of his speech. I'm sure whoever sees himself as a human being here in all of Turkey will be positioned in the face of all sorts of atrocities, standing in the face of those who shed blood. It shall not be called, it shall not matter that it is Sunni. It shall not matter that it is Alevi. It is our duty to object in a human way to those who slaughter people, to resist them with your hand, with your tongue, with everything.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0123par0233	Complete, please, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0124par0234	This is where Turkey is today, where people are today. Looking back, speaking of the past, it is important to base on a language that has an absolute future and a brotherhood. I have also seen such an approach in the language of Mr. Cihanar, and I also thank him. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0123par0236	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. The People's Democratic Party will finally speak against the group's proposal, Mr. Mehmet İlker Çitil of Kahramanmarash. Here you are, Mr. Çitil.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0125par0243	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal for the opening of the HDP Group's parliamentary investigation. I salute you, our citizens, watching from the beginning of the screen, and my fellow heroes, my fellow citizens, with my deepest feelings from here. Before I speak, I pray to God for the mercy of four of our soldiers who were killed in the attack by the terror organization DAEŞ in the operation of the Fırat Shield, which continues at El Bab. And for the immediate healing of 15 wounded soldiers. I offer patience, patience, and condolences to our beloved nation. Dear MPs, Kahramanmarash has been one of the main fronts of the National War period, where the fate of the great Turkish nation has been written. Since history as a nation, the most important evidence that we have not been flagless, without a country and without a nation has been our heromarash's legendary national defense and the spirit of February 12th. The heroic sons of this ancient city were organized in every neighborhood during the occupation, and came out victoriously from the battle, which lasted twenty-two days and twenty-two nights until February 12, 1920, with one heart, one wrist, with his Alemi. With the spirit of national unity and unity, the triumph of the national will is that our heromarash, who was honored by our great Assembly as its own self-saving city, was honored by the title of heromarash, was an exemplary city in which all provinces were in a sense coveted and honored by the Statistical Medal. In the same way, he received the title of hero in the national struggle with all of his members. Here are the events of such a position, such a spirit of dedication and faith, as you all know in our heromarash, where the mind of the political conjuncture in our country today tries to stir our country with its hands, such as the PKK, the DAES. In this country there is no problem with the Sunni (Sunni) and the Alevi (Kurkish) and the Turk (Turkish) and the Kurd (Kurdish) and the other ethnic element and will never have a problem with it. In our heromarash, we have no problem with our Kurdish brothers, Alevi brothers and sisters. My hand has covered the wounds of our heromarash since that 19-26 December 1978. A number of cultural events, festivals, national unity, many events in the name of unity have been organized together in a way with our brothers, and the same spirit of peace and brotherhood continues in the process. Again, after the traitorous coup attempt on July 15th, I would also like to point out that in the fields of national will and democracy, together with all of our elements, we stand guard in our Kahramanmarash, and we maintain the same feeling in the same way. Today (July 15th) is a treasonous coup attempt against the Russian Ambassador, the same mindset and instigators in Istanbul, who were the subcontractors and coupters behind the bombings and bombings in Kayseri. They did so at the time to lay the groundwork for the coup, and today their attempts for coup and occupation continue. Again, from the speakers before me, especially the HDP (HDP) speaker, when he has to do what he has to do to ensure this unity and unity, especially the Alemi and Sunni have to do to bring our brothers close together, connect with our Kurdish and Turkish brothers, bridge with each other, unite with one another, try to discriminate, and unfortunately display these actions, which are a product of the same mentality. I'd like to say that that's how I condemn them. Dear MPs, two days ago Russian Ambassador to Ankara Karlov was brutally murdered, I just mentioned it. Given the details of the killer, all the focus indicates that he was a member of a terrorist organization. Here are the evil centers that confused our country yesterday, which have brought our citizens against each other, and today they continue to constantly put us to trial. The joint statement made by the presidents of the two countries together following this shameful incident is very valuable. A murder by a self-involved traitor and the subcontractor mentality behind it will not compromise the friendship of the two countries. Our Turkey, which has survived the attempted treasonous coup attempt and the attempt to invade beyond the coup attempt on July 15th, continues to erase the traces of this treacherous attempt on our people's courage, pride and common sense. Events around us in our geography, political unrest in the countries, and massacres in Aleppo are being followed. The humanitarian corridor, which is being opened by our President's intense efforts, and the ongoing operation of the Fırat Shield, continues in many different lanes, including human, conscientious and security-oriented diplomatic traffic. In the process of having such a busy agenda inside and out, I find it appropriate that such an offer should be presented under the name of research. Again, the speaker before me referred to the pointy spell, which, unfortunately, has been brought to our General Assembly over and over again for different purposes. I'm from Kahramanmarash. In our heromarash, nearly 100,000 Syrian guests have been guests for a period of time. Health problems, all kinds of problems -- our citizens, our NGOs, our government and our government -- are also there to provide a viable environment with all its elements -- and they are now more humane -- and we have Sunni brothers in that region, we have Turkish brothers, we have Kurd brothers, we have Kurdish brothers. Unfortunately, the mentality of the past is being tried in the same way. The NGO, or people who call themselves my lawyer, are the ones who use those feelings of innocent people in a different way to create that environment, otherwise none of our brothers and sisters there have a problem. Our Sunni and Alevi brothers are already living there side by side, and we've opened up -- in the past -- a city that offers about 20 to 25,000 Syrian guests -- all kinds of possibilities, creating a better, more lively environment, and has been environmentally arranged in a certain area, in a good-looking way in that area.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0126par0253	Deputy, is the location available or is there no other place?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0125par0254	In the same way that the village, our citizens there, will benefit themselves both in water needs and in the next process, which hopefully will soon be done, and those buildings that we built there, God forbid, will serve our own citizens, our own citizens, our victims, in case of an earthquake. So it's multipurpose.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0126par0255	Did he want a citizen?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0125par0256	I condemn you and your mindsets, your actions to confuse there. Go, so none of you have left.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0126par0257	You're doing it because of your mentality. You're doing it to force them to emigrate.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0125par0258	In fact, I've just looked at the HDP speaker, and he's trying to create an agenda, especially with misinformation he's gathered from right to left. But you have to see it in place. The peace, the brotherhood, let's welcome you there. Before that, our CHP MPs came, and they didn't see anything extraordinary in our Kahramanmarash. And we just opened the last one, no problems, and the process continues the same way. A speaker just said different things again: you know, party buildings, different destinations, different goals. Just a few days ago, an Afshinian citizen who had gone to Istanbul to help with that mess in the HDP building was killed there on the fourth floor, falling from the fourth floor. I mean, our government, our government, as a party, we are trying to sort out that environment as quickly as possible, but unfortunately, we're all trying to discriminate against the development of Turkey, the unity, the cognitiveness that we've been trying to achieve in the past, when we all have to act together. I hereby declare that I am against the proposal, in our country with such intense agendas inside and out, that we should focus on other issues on our agenda, that we should focus on unity and national feelings, and that we should do whatever it takes for our country, and I salute everyone here with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0127par0262	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0128par0263	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0129par0264	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0127par0265	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0128par0266	In his speech, Mr. Orator teased our group about the separatist language that HDP has been using since long ago.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0127par0267	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0128par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the most valuable lawmakers, first of all, we're not talking about gathering information from right to left, we're talking about the fact that this country has been unresolved for thirty-eight years and has failed to build the peace bridge between people in a city. Look, if we don't come up with a permanent research proposal, if we don't come up with a solution, that's 38 years and 48 years, that's 58 years. We're talking about a process that has not seen an effective trial and has not reached a decision that satisfys the parties. Another is, look, you're referring to the Terolar, and you've determined the Terolar, as far as you can, as centrally, as a deductive decision. If the people there were willing to do so, you should have his consent. The country's 800,000 square miles of space is over, and you're walking through days of action, activity, demonstrations, which reacts specifically through a social sensibilities? And you can't underestimate our research proposal, especially when the country has such a big problem. The most important emergency of the country is not the constitutional amendments that apply to regime change in this country. The agenda of these 80 million people and the agenda of power operates in different places. This country has no problem with regime. This republic has a problem, such as democratisation. The country, this republic, has a problem such as the democracy, which is a problem of 90 to three years. If there's going to be a change in this country, we need to give this country a process of democratization, where everyone can express themselves in their own color, language, culture, in their own way, within the scope of the acceptance of all social communities, but if not, I'm saying there's nothing wrong with the republic and this country. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0130par0274	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Gökdağ...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0131par0276	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0132par0277	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0130par0278	Give me a break.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0133par0279	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement regarding the matter, sir, according to 60.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0130par0280	Here, one minute from your seat.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0133par0283	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, thirty-six years ago, there was a massacre in Kahramanmarash, which said that they were really human, that would have a profound effect on everyone who carried a speck of humanity. This massacre was actually a massacre against the Republic, but it was our Aleki citizens who were dealing with it. As deeply as our Flaming citizens' sufferings over there have affected them, the Alevis do not live today with a sense of hatred, a sense of revenge, and they don't approach it that way. The Alevis have always acted with the understanding of love, peace, brotherhood, due to their beliefs, and today they act with the same faith, with the same thought. But the Alevis have a common desire, a common desire: Thirty-six years ago such violence was encountered, they want to be enlightened, they want to be enlightened. I'm saying we have to listen to this student as Congress. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0130par0285	Thank you. Mr. Imran Kılıç.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0134par0287	Mr. Ilker will speak, so I won't speak.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0130par0288	Mr. Çitil, what are you going to say, what is your request?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0135par0289	He'll make a brief statement, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0130par0290	Wait a minute. Please complete in one minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0136par0293	Thank you. The HDP speaker just made a difference in what I was talking about. About thirty-eight years ago -- we express from here -- a provocative attempt to turn the nation against each other -- a provocative act to turn our brothers Alevi and Sunni, our Kurdish and Turkish brothers, against each other and prepare for the coup, and unfortunately, Sunni and Alevi were used there. I say, instead of using these right now, creating the same environment again, we should make more constructive statements and work for national unity, unity. Second, in this Styrofoam, they went directly, and it was chosen. But I was involved, and we were informed by the governor's office. Over and over, different alternatives were considered, at least 15-16 locations, all of them had different problems; some of their land was inappropriate; some of them were close to the airport, some were military storage spaces. It was the perfect place. It's also not a suitable agricultural area, and the villages there are, as I mentioned, Sunni, Alevi, where everyone lives as brothers. There's nothing wrong with the villagers, our citizens there, the problem is they come from outside and try to stir it up.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0137par0297	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan, what did you demand?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0138par0299	Mr. President, I'd like to state my opinion based on 60.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0137par0300	Here you go, just a minute... I'm not gonna make any more promises because this is how it goes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0139par0304	Mr. President, I'd like to say, it's not nice to have a painful incident that happened 36 years ago on a day where we had very different issues on our agenda, very great sufferings, and again, I think it's not very good to have them on the agenda, predicting the dissolution. It's the end of pit politics, the July 15th failed, and now it's time to divide people. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0140par0307	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0141par0308	Congressmans, look, I promised the first three lawmakers to enter the system, but it's starting to run its course. Please, I'm only going to promise Mr. Yıldırım, and I'm going to vote. Come in, Mr. Lightning, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0140par0310	Mr. President, the separatist and the not-so-good...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0141par0311	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0142par0312	Mr. President, let's take a vote.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0143par0313	Don't mess with me, Mr. Doğan, it's obvious. Mr. President didn't even listen to why he wanted to.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0141par0314	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0144par0317	Mr. President, there are some high-profile lawmakers who have a hundred years to go and keep their place on the agenda because the public conscience is unresolved. I'll tell you who is uncomfortable with those who did not feel pain in their heart at that time, or those who did not understand the pain of those who suffered at that time, those who did not want to understand, those who did not want to see.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0145par0318	That's exactly what your state of mind is about.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0141par0319	Mr. Erdogan, please...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0144par0320	It's a wound that still bleeds on your conscience, so I'll put it this way. Have you ever bothered to go and have a three-minute conversation with people who have been wronged in Marash, which is that we're scratching the wound?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0146par0321	We're in it all the time.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0144par0322	You don't seem to have a problem with that, maybe you haven't even touched it. And with movement, look, you can't put this into a three-word mold, and you can't do the same thing with a terminology that can't go beyond it, and you can't just stand here and tease our party, and you can't get material for yourself. With the country's agenda, the country's agenda is different; the country struggles with hunger, struggles with poverty, struggles with flowing blood, struggles with pain, but the opposition is not the social opposition that keeps this country's agenda, either chaos or the presidency, for a reason that applies to regime change. Yes, there is a problem with the regime, which is the issue of democratisation of the republic -- as I just said. The package that is prepared is not a package that can evolve this country into more democracy; I'm saying that in this country it's based on a package that increases people's prejudices towards one another, one man's power, one man's ability, social camping, tension, people's prejudices. I salute the entire General Assembly again.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0147par0326	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0148par0327	Introducing what you're saying, then speak from that people's stand.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0147par0331	I submit to your votes the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal according to the 19th Amendment: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with the 1st ranked Sünei Property Act (1/699) and the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In the past session, it was agreed to switch to Article 341 of the Bill of Law, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 28th article. On the first chapter, Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0149par0345	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first part of the Sunei Property Act, 341 rows, I salute your grand delegation. At the beginning of my words, I wish God's mercy to our soldiers who were martyrs in the Battle of the Battle of the Firat, and to our wounded soldiers an immediate healing. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to make a brief mention of recent disasters in our beautiful home: As we felt the pain of 45 of our children who were killed in the attack on Beşiktaş, Once again, our hearts were wounded by a bomb attack when they went on their way to market permits for our members of the Commando Brigade. I pray for the mercy of our martyrs, the Lord of God, to forget their sorrows and to bless their families who cry and to heal our veterans. Our prayers are that the suffering will end quickly, that all the sons of our country will do their duty in health, that our country's unity and resurrection will be preserved forever. Dear lawmakers, yes, this is a time when we have to have national unity and unity. Terrorist organizations are taking our lives from all four sides, but they can't achieve their goals and they won't. Because our nation, in a whole state, acts in the spirit of national solidarity and sacrifice and opposes the plans of the separatists. However, those elected as representatives of the government must carefully fulfill their responsibilities to the great Turkish nation, whose administration has been authorized. In the bomb attack carried out at Kayseri, a thorough examination of those responsible or lack of a system that allows our troops to take leave without sufficient precautions should be conducted. Terror incidents are being carried out in a similar way, which brings to mind the idea that there is a weakness for intelligence. There have been similar discussions following the July 15 bloody attempt, but there has been no improvements or treatments of any kind. When it is done, let me be responsible. It seems impossible for a government whose approach dominates the country to save the country from disasters. In short, Hamasi is not being Ataturk with 2023, Sultan Mehmet with 2053, Alpaslan with 2071. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Russian Ambassador Karlov, who lost his life in an armed attack Monday evening, wishes his family and the Russian people their condolences, and I think it should be cleared up as soon as possible. Terror is taking lives not only in our country, but also in various countries of the world, but these events happen as isolated events. As an example, I remind you of the recent incident in Berlin, Germany, where 12 people were killed by driving a truck into the Christmas market. My condolences to the German people from here. As for those who were injured in the attack on the mosque, which had previously been under the control of the Turkish community in Zurich, but recently used for worship by Africans, particularly Somalis, I pray to God for immediate healing. In addition, the drama in Aleppo is still not over. Even though it has been called "Firekes," I also condemn the continuing massacres in Aleppo, firing on convoys prepared for civilians to leave the city by regime forces, and allowing the massacre to be tolerated. Mr. President, the Turkish Patent Institute, a private budgetary public institution for the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, was established in 1994 to ensure that the level of information and awareness of these rights, such as brand, geographical markings, design, patents, and useful model, will be increased in the society. A year later, Patriarchial and Useful Model Act No. 551 has been issued decrees on design, on geographical signs, on brands, and have been provided to protect these rights within the rules of the law. Article 544 of the Constitution on the establishment of the Patent Institute of Turkey has been changed and Article 5000 has been legalized in 2003, and the bill we are talking about is based on five books. As we look at the Turkish Patent Institute today, patent applications and registrations of 5,512 locals, 8,446 foreign patents were applied in 2015; 99.1 per cent of foreign patents were accepted as a result of RD activities, and 31 per cent of local patents were registered. I mean, almost all foreign patent applications are registered. So we're not clear on the importance of patents. In terms of economic size, it is not possible to accept that our country, ranked 17th in the country, will be ranked last among the 25 countries applying for patents. Thailand, Israel and Iran, which are behind the economic-sized Turkey, have moved to higher ranks on the list, showing that we need to work harder on the issue. Dear lawmakers in parallel with Turkey's economic development There have been significant improvements in the field of testing property rights, although the applications, particularly patents, brands, and design, have not been the same as they were around the world. During the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill, I gave a speech on the budget of the Turkish Patent Institute's institution and made assessments of the irregularities found by the Court in the institution, and said that I hoped that the new law would fix them. I also mentioned that as opposition parties that ensured the effective and efficient implementation of the law enforcement work, there was work being done by setting up a subcommittee of the National Movement Party and CHP and government representatives. In subcommittee meetings, one of the issues that we were particularly concerned about were the definitions that were used across the law, in a way that could lead to different practices based on person or situation. In particular, it allows for a change in the initiative, experience, or approach of those who will be responsible for the implementation of the request or the procedure. Instead of such vague statements, the bill requires clear statements that will be understood and applied the same way when the relevant parties are complete. The necessary warnings were made during commission meetings, but due to the flexibility he recognized in the application, our proposal was not accepted by AKP lawmakers. This approach does not allow integration into the European Union's rules for implementation and implementation, which are based on revisions of the law, and it does not allow a law to respond to the need for the removal of the rights losses and problems that may arise. Honourable MPs are a right to property born of the brand and a right guaranteed by the Constitution. It is not possible to cancel this right by an administrative body. Independent courts should have the authority to decide whether to cancel. Our proposal to change the declaration of the Constitutional Property Act to the Article 26 of the Constitution to the Court of Justice has again been rejected by AKP MPs. Dear lawmakers, in a nutshell, on the basis that the bill is not understood in the same way that all parties are not organized to implement, I find the bill to be incomplete as the Nationalist Movement Party Group, but hope that the industrialist will respond to their expectations and contribute to them, I salute your high delegation.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0150par0366	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Denizli MP Kazim lion will speak. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0151par0370	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. I wish that the bill that we are discussing today would benefit our country in particular, and that it would benefit the investor, the industrialist, those who are working in manufacturing areas. I would like to point out that there's been a study of patents, brands, geographical signs, useful models, helping our industry, our manufacturer, the investor, to clear his path. As I pointed out yesterday, we have a positive view of the generality of this law. Therefore, we show our support in the Commission so that it can be released in our Parliament as soon as possible, and we support the immediate implementation of this law. My dear friends, in accordance with this statement about the general part of the first chapter, we also stated that this law -- we specifically stated that this law -- is not the correct method of law making, ethics, universal law. I'm still pointing that out. Therefore, we would like to have the legislation adopted in accordance with the bill, followed by the legislation of the bill, as soon as possible, to have a study that will benefit our industry, our investor, and our production. My dear friends, of course, we will continue to continue our work and our contributions at the point where the industry, the investor, especially the business sector, is waiting for, and we will continue to continue our work, because I want to report that the infrastructure that will allow the exports of Turkey to be opened more and more in Turkey, especially because a production-oriented industrialization model is not in force in Turkey, because of the increase of Turkey's production, because of the increased exports of Turkey's exports, and because of the fact that our industry is not in effect in Turkey, I want to make a complaint that our investors and investors are very, very, very, very much, very much, very, very much, very much, very, very much, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, In particular, the height of production costs, the excess of the loads on production, the excess of taxes, the cost of energy, the lack of needed reductions at the energy point, even the fact that the increases have been made, are pushing our industry, our exporter, to compete a little bit more every day. If we can't get it to our industrialist, if we can't get it to work, if we can't increase the export of our industry, our producer, in the end, we see that people's willingness to invest in the future will be destroyed, broken every day, and no private person to invest in the future, no private sector will exist. Maybe today the private sector, the business world, doesn't talk much. Why? Because you're under pressure. He won't speak out because of tax pressure, insurance pressure and political pressures in various areas, but I want to make it clear that he's been complaining out loud, especially to the opposition parties. Of course, I know he's told you and the MPs, but since you can't say it, we have to say it and say it in the House. Of course, in Turkey, we fall behind in education because there is no production-oriented, investment-oriented, human-oriented, educational-oriented study, we fall behind in Turkey, our production is falling down, our jobs are narrowed down every day, many businesses have to be shut down, many of our people are out of work, walking around. In particular, we see today that our young people who have finished college are looking for work above 25 percent, and that many of them are wandering around, and that they are trying to survive, depending on their parents. Now, even though this is supposed to be the country's agenda, we see work today towards a presidential system, a presidential system that will change the regime, even though the country has no real meaning at all. By keeping the agenda busy like this, leaving terror on the side of the country, ignoring the fact that terrorism is happening in every part of the country, if you continue to insist on the presidency, to divide the country again, to continue the tension, believe me, in the future, people will have no interest in living in this country, nor will they have no enthusiasm. I also want to tell you that many people, many in the business world today and in the scientific world, have a desire to leave Turkey. If we try to evaluate them in different areas, put pressure on them in different areas at a time when we have a lot of people who are grown, who are in production, who are in education, who have a lot of contributions to the country, when there's a lot of problems, there's really no peace left in this country, and there's no chance for people to live. This power must provide it first. Therefore, we must now change our agenda, my dear friends, our agenda should not be the presidential agenda. The prevention of terrorism, the creation of a security environment in Turkey, I would like to point out that this power must provide a environment where people can live, work comfortably, work freely in the state and in the private sector, earn their lives, and maintain their daily lives. It really matters a lot. Every day we have unexpected events. Every day we begin our lives with a martyr story, we begin our daily lives. Now is the time and place to free Turkey from this atmosphere. I want to tell you that power really needs to be more careful about this. My dear friends, we have said for years that especially, we have insisted that Turkey should be governed together with a system of secularist-based governance based on the republic. We also said that a form of governance based on cults would always plague this nation and this state in Turkey. In fact, our statements have always been: there is a danger of interference in Turkey. But, as we speak of the danger of this invasion, you misjudged it, creating a PKK terrorist organization that was a nuisance to Turkey by your own hands, by feeding many of your own sects in your own fields, and by placing them in the ranks of the state without merit. That's not enough. Today we're trying to clean them up, and we're supporting them as the Republican People's Party, but this time you're trying to put different cult organizations, cult members, into the ranks of this state, and you're trying to maintain your own administration, your own power. My dear friends, dear lawmakers, believe us, unless we stick to the secular republic, as long as we don't claim this republic established by Ataturk, we can't really get rid of these riots, these fights, these chaoss. I'm insisting on it. Any further work you do will hurt Turkey, change Turkey's regime, darken Turkey's future, and it will not be possible to illuminate this darkness again. So I remind you, my dear friends, that the country's agenda is truly terrorism, Turkey's agenda is hunger, there are challenges; it must be worked to overcome them. At this point, I wish to continue the work. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0152par0383	Thank you, Mr. lion. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ağrı MP Diryet Taşdemir will speak. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0153par0387	Mr. President, I have the right to express the opinion of our party on chapter one. I salute the General Assembly. AKP power is a period of capital transfer of public benefit to capital under various packaging concepts of services involving the integrity of the public. The period when capital is a component of power is when power becomes itself. I'd like to state that the Bill of Sunei Property, which we're talking about today, is also a bill that includes regulations that look to monopoly as property for the public's interests. As such laws pass at the same time, a social climate is created that is increasingly difficult for us to come up with ideas about these arrangements. For the past two years, we thought the AKP was running the country alone, but it turns out that the AKP was a coalition of sects and congregations, while bragging that we had finished their coalition period, ran the country with secret coalitions. Today, we are dealing with the problems of trying to provoke congregations by using religion within and outside the borders of all political problems in Turkey. Even the Kurdish issue is being dealt with, unfortunately, with this mentality. At the time of the curfews, we repeatedly stated on this stand that there were racist, sexist writing on the walls in Cizre, Sur. And we still haven't received a single response to our questions and our question proposals. In 2014, there was no response to the question motions on the subject, even though the police who intervened in HDP actions were video-recorded. The Ağar, which I was acting on, was not released on the basis of a concrete document about those being treated under the name of the foreign terrorist fighters, but rather by adventurous foreign policy based on Kurdish opposition, the structures were positioned as counterpowers in the Middle East. The threat made to the Kurds as a threat to all opponents within this alliance border has been covered, no investigation has been launched. The fact that the attacks were against the opposition, against the Kurds, legitimized the attacks in the eyes of power. Even though we have exposed this silence with all the evidence in its time, the only reason it hasn't been acted out is because of this political approach. The latest statement by Diyarbakır bomber Orhan Send, which would cause a political crisis in normal conditions, has been released to the press. He stated that the government had been promised to take care of him, that the police would serve a year and leave. Did you put that on the agenda? Who are these cops, who's powered by this kind of relationship? I'm afraid there's still no answer to those questions. Today, you continue to use the methods and policies of the congregational structures you refer to as terrorists. ACK cases are the most concrete example of this. Prosecutors who filed the indictments are in prison, but the trials continue as if nothing had happened. Thousands of people have been convicted of acts of terrorism by members of judges, sentenced to tens of years in prison. You can't even see a problem with that, it's the same propaganda going on. So much so that 12 of our deputies, especially our co-chairs, our friends, these judges and prosecutors, have been arrested on the grounds of their statements, and their trial is under way. Unless, of course, there's something strange about the distribution of a budget by a government whose corruption has been exposed, that's the way to cover up the justice decisions made by the alleged judges. If there really is going to be a reckoning, if there really is going to be an end to these execution structures, then the reckoning should start from the ésedollah team in Cizre, the one who did the writing in Sur. Orhan Send was the triggerman, the one who organized the lynching attempts for our party. As long as it doesn't start here, there will be parallel structures that emerge with a desire to be a permanent partner in power and replace each other, one face of politics will always be hidden by a bilateral organisation. It's always gonna be someone trying to take over the state, struggling with the 15th of July of the structures trying to bypass each other in the process of creating power. The government is trying to manage the political crisis, not by democratizing the political crisis, but by gathering legislation, executive, judiciary in one hand, by staffing all public institutions; it has led the public to collapse the sense of public justice, the legitimacy of the law, to interpret justice in their own interests. People bring their individual accounts into action by bringing revenge to justice. The violence provoked by mobilization declarations, lynching calls provokes vengeful feelings in the public. The lynch is a crisis method, used as an instrument this period. To create difficult, to obtain legitimacy from power, to build panic politics are the fundamental elements of power's general policy. The government doesn't violate the law, it eliminates it when it doesn't work for you. What we experience today is a sign of how power has not ruled this country in 14 years, making it an insecure country. We understand that the State of Emergency has only been declared against us. Since our actions, jihadists can massacre at weddings, a public official can kill the top Russian Foreign Minister, we're the only ones dealing with the State of Emergency. In Italy, just as the fascist party has been placed before the opposition independent institutional authority at all levels, the government has appointed its public officials as its members to the top of independent structures as small chiefs. 46 of our municipalities have been appointed trustees, 64 of our co-mayors or deputies have been arrested. After July 15th, around 5,000 HDP people, BDP party workers and voters were arrested. Our party buildings are under police supervision, and city-owned fire trucks and staff are flagged by another political party. In the attack on our Yalova county building, a 7-year-old boy and our executives were barely evacuated. There's been an armed attack on our Esenyurt county building, and there are about 100 shell casings found inside. We've had sound bombs dropped on our county buildings, two county buildings torched. Some of our Konya and Denizli district and borough managers have been served names and photos on social media to identify the houses and make calls. Every day, dozens of people from social media accounts have been taken into custody for insulting the President, and we can also say that there is no initiative for such practices against our party, at least such approaches have been ignored. I'm running out of time, and I'd really like to express a lot of things, but there's a problem with my constituency, Ağar. I actually got a busy phone call today. I want to express it. In fact, Pain, you know, it's one of the most frequent, coldest cities in winter, but unfortunately, we're dealing with the government's approach as if winter conditions were happening for the first time in Ağrı. In recent times, especially problems such as water, electricity, and roads, when we look for public institutions, the motive is always the same. What are we told: the weather, the winter conditions are heavy, the roads are closed, we can't do anything. Look, today, Tutak and Patnos are almost a week away, so for about five days, electricity has been out in many villages and neighborhoods. Especially in the village of Suluca, Patnos. A village of 200 dignitaries. For five days, people have been frozen in the darkness. The power's out because of the transformer explosion. A transformer hasn't been replaced in five days. In fact, the reason we've been given is that because the bills have not been paid, we are not changing the transformer in a hurry, in order to punish people. Now, once again, we'd like to address power here: Every time we express the problems of A pain here, the ruling executives or Ağrı MPs will tell us how far they've traveled on this bench, how much they've served, but I'd like to point out that the path you've made is not being used for six months. So instead of punishing people like this, apply a positive discrimination here once, bring structural solutions to these electricity and water issues. So I've expressed it here before, it's not the first time it's snowed in Pain, so it's not the first time it's happened in your time of AKP power. It's actually the winter conditions since the pain. So all over the world there are cities, boroughs and countries with similar climate conditions. So people don't stay here in the dark for days, they don't lose electricity, women, children, patients don't somehow be deprived of these services. But why is Pain being punished in this sense or somehow unable to benefit from these services? So on the roads that you've done -- and I'd like to express this -- we've done a lot of very boastful miles. At this point, we've done a lot of traffic accidents in Ağrı, for example, between Tutak-A pain, and three people have lost their lives. So, I've done all of your service on the road, and in fact, I'd like to say once again on behalf of the people of Pain, on behalf of the people of Tuqak, Patnos, I would like to focus on the most basic structural problems of Pain, and make an attempt to prevent at least ten days or a week's cuts of electricity, which is a very human need. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0154par0406	Thank you, Mr. Stonedemir. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the group are over. Now, we'll listen to the MPs speak for themselves. Mr. Şahin Tin will speak first. Here you go, Mr. Tin.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0155par0412	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the first part of the Sunei Property Act. I salute your high council. Traitors such as the PKK, the DAEŞ, and its puppets, who want to stir up domestic turmoil by dragging Turkey into the swamp of terror, continue their brutal acts of terror. In Istanbul and Kayseri, many of our citizens, police, soldiers, civilians, were killed in the attacks of those who did not receive their share of humanity, but they will not succeed. I pray to God for the mercy of our martyrs who died in these treacherous terrorist attacks, and to our veterans for immediate healing. Again, a treacherous attack was carried out on Russia's Ankara Ambassador Karlov. I condemn this bitch attack with hatred. My condolences to the family of Ambassador Karlov, who died in the traitor attack, and to the Russian people. The state of the Republic of Turkey must know that the state of the Republic will bury global mind traders and their tongs in the swamp of terror. Dear lawmakers, no doubt one of the most important and indispensable elements of our commercial life is the brand. In terms of our manufacturers and consumers, it is very important to encourage competition in branding. In the 1980s, the financial assets of companies around the world were 80 per cent of their balance sheet, and today 80 per cent of the company's assets constitute intellectual and experimental property rights. The brand is the mirror of a business, its professional stance, and it's also the door of trust in marketing. Dear lawmakers, national and international brand applications are increasing day by day in connection with Turkey's economic development. By 2015, the number of brand applications, which were 36 thousand in 2002, increased by more than 3 stories, to 111,000. Turkey has received the highest brand application in Europe since 2011. Again, according to the World Idea Property Agency report, our country is ranked sixth in the world in terms of brand applications. About 100,000 brands were applied only until December 2016. Companies in our naval province, whose name is often mentioned in many areas in the world market, especially textiles and design, also took very important steps in branding. When we look at the last five years, there have been over 10,000 applications for brands, patents, useful models and design. Our naval province also comes up with geographical markings, such as the buldan gland, the sea traverten, the Kale pepper, the balsamite, the Isabeh seedless grapes. It shows that our naval province and our country have reached a very important point in branding. With the arrangement we discussed at the General Assembly, the brand application process will be facilitated, the brand registration period will be shortened, the brand-born rights will be effectively protected, new brand production, registration will be enabled, added high brands will be created, and the brand cancellation power of the courts will now be done quickly by the institution. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we thank the Minister, our esteemed bureaucrats, our members of the Commission, and our NGOs who have worked in the bill. I wish the bill to be good for our country, and I salute our nation and your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0156par0421	Thank you, Mr. Tin. Secondly on behalf of Isparta MP Irfan Bakr will speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Copper.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0157par0425	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology to the Council of Ministers on the Bill of the Sunei Property Act presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With regards to the Veterans' Council and our precious citizens watching us on their screens. Every day, we were tired, weary, worn out, to hear sad news every day, to be thrown away by the winds of pessimism every day, to witness the bad course of the country. We have to stop this going on. I wish God's mercy on our martyrs in El Bab, and upon our wounded, an immediate healing. Dear lawmakers, in light of the contributions made by our friends who work for our country's development, development, growth, peace and well-being, to provide solutions to the demands of our citizens, we are conducting talks of a bill of law, which includes positive substances in general, with reservations. First, I'd like to thank all the MPs we've worked with in harmony with in the commission's work, the Ministry employees, NGOs who've been involved in drafting this bill. Yes, according to the bill, the opinion of many institutions and institutions has been taken into account during the drafting of the bill, but these views have not been taken into consideration. At first, it is one of the reasons why the law is a more comprehensive expression in terms of its compliance with international literature, is that it is not considered by institutions and organisations that the name should be the law of intellectual property. In addition, the bill refers to international contracts related to the European Union's directives and regulations, but also shows a general lack of all of them in the bill. An effort to complete such shortcomings with regulations set out to save the day can cause serious problems in the future. Many articles of the bill refer to international harmony. In order to improve Turkey's investment environment and to compete with other countries through the protection of testing property rights, taking serious steps on branding in our country was among our expectations, but this is not fully met, because it is important to open the way for the brand creation process and provide incentives in this direction. This matter has not been given enough importance. Clearly, our country needs a sustainable development plan integrated into the world market. Now, in all areas of the global economy, the impact of new technology is obvious, including agriculture, industry, energy fields. In order to create competitiveness in the global economy, Turkey has to produce high-profit products, and it has to care enough about brands, patents, design and innovation. In 2015, Turkey ranked 41st among 54 countries in the biotechnology ranking, based on the structure of R&D density, company incentives, education, capital, policy and stability. In the survey of patent statistics in 2016, our country ranked 24/4 of the 40 countries applying for the most patents, the first of the 40 countries with the highest patents, and the first of the 40 countries with the most patents. At the same time, according to the World Fikri Property Organization report last year, the number of patent applications in the world increased by 4,000 to 218k compared to the previous year, which remained in Turkey, despite an increase of 163 per cent. Of course, this data alone can't make progress and change. The important thing is that the work is done from a qualified, visionary point of view, depending on the positive results. As we have noted in the commission's work, the rise in patents and brand applications in our country alone would be insufficient to achieve a lasting success in global competition, domestic markets. The number of brands and patent applications, especially in December, will remain a quantitative increase unless they become qualified production and make sense as an international brand or patent. Dear lawmakers, the bill we're discussing, of course, has its positive sides to our country. From 1995 to today, the area covered in the matter is a gain for our country as a result of its provisions. The bill, along with the law of patents, which has been debated for many years but has been inconclusive, contains arrangements for the brand, geographical markings. As the Republican People's Party, I can express that this bill, which we generally find positive, is a requirement for the changing and developing world economy and structure. With this bill, the lack of legislation has been resolved, and a well-intentioned work has been done for the future vision of our country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0158par0443	Thank you, Mr. Copper. Congressmans, we're going to do a QA on the department. We're 15 minutes out. In seven and a half minutes of this time, we will receive the questions, and in the other seven and a half minutes, the Minister will answer those questions. Yeah, let's start with the MPs who entered the system in a row. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0159par0448	I'm asking the Minister of Science, Industry and Trade: 1) There have been complaints that the life-water loans that KOSGEB had started to give to the tradesmen were caused by difficulties at the time of the application, that there were distinctions among those who came for loans, that some ruling parties were accepted by taking their applications in separate rooms. I want these complaints to be taken into consideration by your ministry, followed closely, provided that loans are granted without discrimination among people. 2) Do you have a study to encourage and support domestic capital and domestic investors in the development and growth of local investors, to increase jobs, to meet the needs of the country? 3) Do you have a plan, a program to carry out production-oriented industrialization? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0160par0453	Mr. Lightning, I don't think they're here. Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0161par0455	Mr. Secretary, in a news report passed by the Russian Ria News Agency today, one of our ministers who went to the agency for his condolences said, "See, Mr. Fikri Light says that we are monitoring the successful operation to remove Aleppo from the militants." That's one. His Majesty Mahalli was lynched in media organs supported by your government himself, which expressed the same view, two. If the families are being rescued in Aleppo, then is it true that Mr. Minister is right, and those who mentioned that there was a massacre in Aleppo -- which we all mentioned -- are we telling the truth? Is there really no massacre? Are families being rescued? Or should we see this as the result of our foreign political vision that changed after the Moscow Declaration? Where should we put this statement? Do you agree with Fikri Bey in Aleep, or do you disagree?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0162par0459	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0163par0460	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, my first question is, is there a refund of the fee if the charges in patent applications are not approved due to the name resemblance? How much extra charge is required to appeal? My second question is, will the expert opinion be taken as part of the regulation of harmonisation regarding geographical signs? Is there ever a product in our country that carries a geographical marker? If so, which are they?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0164par0463	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0165par0464	Mr. Secretary, where are you as the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology in the FATIH Project? In what area do you support the FATIH Project? Again, what percentage of the smart boards distributed are produced by Turkish technology? Again, another question: How many percent of the iPadACKs distributed to students were prepared with Turkish technology or Turkish products? Again, how long is the technological life of these disbanded iPadees? How many years do you plan on renovating? Again, how many percent of these are Turkish-made and how many Internet connections have been provided, whether it's in these houses or in the schools, whether it's in the modems, whether it's in the access point, whether it's in the act, whether it's in the wi-fi, whatever you know? What's the speed of the Internet? Again, another thing: on the Internet used in Turkey, there are 32 megabit deals with subscribers, 64 megabit deals with subscribers, but at speeds that don't exceed 8 megabits, and high fees are received from citizens. Are you considering any precautions?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0166par0469	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0167par0470	Minister, there's been a claim in the media today. Russian news agencies have made a claim that El Nusracı was the person who attacked Mr. Russian Ambassador Karlov, or Al Nusracı. Do you know of any information from Russia to our country? If you have such information, do you intend to share it with the public? In light of the discovery of the identity of this attacker, have we begun to have concrete data? We'd like you to share your views or information on this matter. My respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0166par0472	Thank you. Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0168par0474	Mr. Secretary, do you have a public transfer of land that has not been invested in organized industrial areas, even though it's been a while? My second question: exporting companies say costs have increased due to summer hours -- because their work hours are running longer. We know there's a high share of exports in the industry. So how much do we lose in exports? What is the government's insistence on the summer hour?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0169par0477	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0170par0478	Mr. Secretary, what was the production and export of high-tech industry in 2002? At the point where you're here today, what is the location of high-tech production in industrial production 14 years later, what percentage is it, and again, what percentage of export is it? In addition, we know that the share of Turkey's R&D has increased from 0.7 to 1.1 in your administrations, yes. In 14 years, you've only made an increase of 0.4. What is Turkey's ranking among developing and exporting high-tech products? What is their share of the RD, according to the illegitimate national product, and what is our share?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0169par0480	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0171par0481	Mr. Minister, after the attack on the Russian Ambassador in Turkey, you know Russia felt the need to send its own staff to Turkey, including its own forensic experts. When you look at similar cases in previous countries, do you think it's routine, or do you think it's an attitude that refers to mistrust in our legal system? So should we view Turkish law as a sign of distrust in the study of the Turkish judiciary on this issue, or do you have any idea what kind of data you've got on similar incidents, have you done a background check? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0169par0483	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0172par0484	Mr. Secretary, the development of olive groves around organised industrial areas in that region can be a problem for employment. Is there any legal arrangement for that? I'm just talking about people around organized industries. I'd like some information on that.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0169par0485	Mr. Secretary, please. Now, Mr. President, some of these questions are about the agenda of the patent law, some of it's about general politics. Now, Mr. Kazim asked the first question about KOSGEB. Congressman, no discrimination, no such thing; let me know if there's an example, and I'll do it.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0173par0489	The websites, the websites of the Furnitures, the KOSGEB, I'm naming them as well. So please let us know, whoever our citizen is being discriminated against, please, let us know, it's not going to happen, so that's not true. Don't say no, Mr. Minister. I mean, we shouldn't, we don't want it to happen, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it. Other than that, you had a question about employment, about support for local investors. You know about this -- in the last package -- a 250 billion-dollar package to the domestic industry, hopefully in the first half of 2017, we'll be able to comfort our industrialist; there's that. Other than that, Mr. Erdem asked questions, he asked three questions, Mr. Erdem. Mr. Erdem, none of them are about this law, about general politics, about hearing, about social media. So I'm not going to answer that.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0174par0496	It's agency-based, Mr. Secretary. There was a question for Mr. Tarhan. About the brand and patent application fees. Mr. Tarhan, now, even if the applications are rejected, the fee is not returned, but paid back in case the objection is justified. The appeal fee is $300. Again, another question by Mr. Tahsin is: "Will the opinion be taken in drafting regulations on geographical signs?" he says.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0175par0500	Will there be an expert opinion? The question is again whether there is a registered product in our country as a geographical sign. The opinion of institutions and organizations regarding regulation preparation is being received. There are 195 geographical markers in our country. We have a list of these, so we can introduce them. Another question also stated that the name of the law must be thought, property law. ▪ The expression "ficial property" includes copyright rights. In this respect, the expression, i.e. private property is a proper use, and so is the use of international property. Again, in my notes, there was a question about the FATIH Project. The FATIH Project, you know, is the project of the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of National Education is running this project. I'll pass your questions on to the Minister of National Education, present you with the answers I received from him.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0176par0504	Are you in the project? I asked. The project does not have the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, and we do not exist. How could it not be in a technological project like this, your Ministry? It is a supply project. Congressman, it's a supply... But there, there...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0177par0510	Mr. Akar, please... It's the Ministry's supply project. Again, there's a question from Mr. Tanal. In the OSBs, there was the issue of publicization of unused land. We've got work to do with this. Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. The OSB will take over the land of our non-usable industrialists and assign them to the industrialists who want to use them. That's the kind of work we do.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0178par0513	My place in exports and industrial production. - That was the last question, I'll come to him. We, the Ministry, support domestic technological investments by up to $10 million. And let me put it this way: there is a 15 percent advantage in favor of those who are willing to offer domestic goods, and we apply it. Now, this is about the share of high-tech products. Yes, from 2002 to 2016, high-tech products have a decline in both production and exports, but there is a rise in medium high-tech products and a rise in medium low. This is actually a structural problem in our industry. So our industry is more of a medium high-tech product maker, more capable. In that sense, there's a mid-high rise, a decline in high-tech, it's true. Mr. President, this is all the questions I have, all the notes I can get. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0179par0519	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0180par0521	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement. We thank the Minister for his answers. Mr. Akar said that since the question concerns the Ministry of National Education, he would naturally refer the question to that Ministry, and there is no complaint. He said, "I will not answer these questions." We'd have expected that I'd pass them on to the Department of Foreign Affairs. I think it would have been more appropriate to say, Thank you. Mr. President, may I answer?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0181par0526	Of course. Wait a minute. The first question is a question with a technological side, but it's a supply project. In that respect, we respected the Minister of National Education.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0182par0529	Sure, there's nothing there. But Mr. Virtue's questions are completely out of the question, completely out of the question. Foreign policy, Minister, foreign policy. I mean, I'd expect Erdem to ask more questions about the agenda.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0183par0533	On the agenda, on the agenda... INTERVIEWING, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOJI SEE FURK EVIL (TLFT) ▪ Reports of hearings, reading on social media; said that he had done so, he had done so, he had done so, he had done so, he had done so, he had done so, he had done so. In that respect, I'm sorry, I won't answer them. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0184par0536	But I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary, it was more appropriate for you to pass it on to the State Department.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0185par0537	Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second joke of Article 1 of the Constitutional Property Act, number 341, which is currently in session, the word "aligned" (also referred to in the second part of the 1st article of the Sunei Property Act) We offer and offer to change it into form. Kazim Arslan İrfan Bakır Tahsin Tarhan Mahmut Tanal Erkan Aydın Atila Sertel Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Erkan Aydın Ömer Fethi Gürer Niyazi Nefi Kara Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Murat Emir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement taken in Article 1 of the Constitutional Property Act 341 shall be changed in the form of the terms referred to in Article 1. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Muharrem Varlı Mehmet Günal Mustafa Mit of Deniz Depboy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first article of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. On the motion, Mr. Siegel Yiğitalp, Diyarbakır MP, will speak. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0186par0569	Mr. President, I have made a promise to read the motion of Mr. Idris Baluken, our deputy president, to pass on to Parliament Speaker, and to Mr. Idris Bauken and to our friends here -- and to all of our chosen, all the political prisoners in prison. 20/12/2016. As you know, despite all the pressure and attacks on HDP, both June 7th and November 1st, our party has been appointed and authorized by our people as the 3rd largest political party in parliament. These tasks and regulations that only the people who elected them could be reinstated were defined in all modern democracies, universal law contracts, and Turkey's existing laws and Constitutional principles. On November 4, 2016, however, 10 MPs, including our co-chairs, were arrested and sent to prisons on December 12, 2016 to be kept in isolation. So according to universal law norms and modern democratic rules, a heavy attack on the will of the people was carried out by a coup d'état, with the power to control the peoples through democratic elections. In this regard, I request that my following questions be answered in writing, according to the relevant articles of the Civil Code and Constitution. 1) As on November 4th and December 12th, are there any examples in Turkey's political history, such as the arrests, arrests, and isolation of lawmakers who were elected to carry out the legislative function? If so, who are these MPs? On what date have they experienced similar violations of the law? 2) Have you ever had a written statement about the arrests of two co-chairs of the 3rd largest party group, two vice presidents of the two groups, eight lawmakers while their legislative functions continue; and if not, what do you think is going on as a segregative approach to us and our party? 3) What is your opinion that your attitude is in harmony with the role of Parliamentary President, which should be neutral and independent? 4) As Parliament Speaker, we have followed the news from the press that you have read about us with full political opinions, as if you have been reading the indictments from the Parliament Speaker's Court. Is this news true? If it's true, as a lawyer, aren't you aware of the basic rule of law, such as the principle of innocence? Do you have any roles in the mission of perception to lawmakers and our party? 5) As Parliament Speaker, are you aware of your defined mission to protect the reputation of Parliament, MPs and political institution? Have you been notified of operational procedures related to detention, arrest and isolation? Have you approved these operations? 6) As HDP MPs, it is not the prisons that we should be in right now, but the Parliamentary studies. With your lack of position to ensure this situation, what right and right do you have to be offended by the photographs of our fellow lawmakers as a democratic protestors? Those photos are to the lines of the House...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0187par0578	Mr. Yigitalp, I think you should ask the Speaker of Parliament about these matters, these questions.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0186par0579	But I have to finish.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0187par0580	It's not the General Assembly they're asking. If you pass these on to the Parliament Speaker, in a manner that you know, in a manner that you know, he'll do what he has to do.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0188par0581	Yeah, well, he's reading it.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0186par0582	I'm running out of time, Mr. President, and I'm running out of time.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0187par0583	Please...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0188par0584	Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0186par0585	Then I'll just have to keep doing this. Are you uncomfortable with the daily sightings of your own accountability and shame from the photographs he placed in the ranks of the assembly? If the July 15 coup had resulted, MPs would have been arrested and sent to prisons. Is there any answer you can give in comparison to July 15th that our current situation is a civilian coup against the will of all citizens? What are your views on the two co-chairs of parliament's 3rd largest political party, the two deputy chiefs of parliament, the 8 MPs arrested, the HDP's obstruction of Parliament's work, and even the fact that it has been noted? The universal principles of law and basic human rights are defined worldwide as a method of torture and a crime of humanity. What are your thoughts on this method of torture and the implementation of humanity's crime to lawmakers? Is there any regulation in the existing laws and Constitution that says that law enforcement functions of lawmakers employed by the people can be blocked? Is there an example of this, other than his infraction? If so, what are the provisions of the law and the Constitution? All of the indictments against us are democratic political efforts under the freedom of thought, expression and organisation. Even our speeches from the council stand have been ignored by the absolute immunity of the bench. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] How do you feel about her being prosecuted? The question of freedom of expression, organization, and freedom of thought...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0189par0594	Thank you, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0186par0595	...of course, what are your thoughts on the eclipse? Is there a place in democracy for a trial to question the will of Parliament? It is clear and clear that you cannot maintain the reputation of Parliament, MPs and the political institution, which is your primary duty.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0189par0596	Mr. Heroalp...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0186par0597	▪ Do you intend to resign as a person who has not done his most important duty? No. 2. Lu F-type Kandira Prison. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0189par0600	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement taken in Article 1 of the Constitutional Property Act 341 shall be changed in the form of the terms referred to in Article 1. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0190par0605	We're pulling the motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0189par0606	The motion has been drawn. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first article of the Sunei Property Act, number 341, shall be changed in the context of the word "alignment" in the article (2). Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. İstanbul MP Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Illezdi.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0191par0618	Mr. President, I've been sworn in by the Sinei Property Law Bill 341 rows. I salute your high council. I'd like to inform the General Assembly of a case that was seen today when I began my speech that concerns all our women. You will recall that Ayþegül Terzi was attacked in September of last September because he wore shorts on the city bus he boarded in Czechköy. He had a hearing today, I went to trial, I came from there. Sadly, despite our frequent emphasis, we faced the practice of punishment once again. It has been decided that the kicker who didn't even bother to come to court will continue to be tried without arrest, so the kicker who fled to Tripoli will continue to roam the street because he had no safety. This approach is the clearest evidence that women are not only treated by male violence but also by the hand of the law. Look, this kick has been kicked not only to Ayşegül Terzi, but to all our women; to secularism, to the right to live free. Mr. President, I'm asking from the House of People: Do you think the kicker who isn't safe is the attacker or the kicker who will never feel safe as long as the attacker walks the street free? It has to be well known that we will be followers of this case until the attacker gets what he deserves. Dear lawmakers, as for the Sunei Property Law bill we discussed today, we are not opposed to this bill in general. Although it has been on the agenda for years, the Patent Law, which has been constantly ignored, cares about the arrangement for brands, design and geographical signs. We support that the investment climate in our country is being maintained and equalized to other countries in terms of other legislation. We have no objection to all this. It's our greatest wish that our country progresses in every field. But I think it's helpful to remind you of a few things you've forgotten. Precious Regents, the basis for competing with the developed world in the 21st century is sustainable development. The idea has its production, its protection, its spread, and, depending on it, the fair distribution of prosperity. In order for all of these components to function healthyly, the country also needs a complete democracy. If we can free our citizens as well as in political, economic, and social life as it is in the face of law; if we can distribute fair incomes and eliminate poverty; if we can create equality of opportunity in every field; if we can prevent discrimination because of class, society, gender, race, religion, or religion; if we can meet in the culture of unity, not beer; if we can strengthen social state, we can achieve sustainable development. But the picture of Turkey standing in front of us shows that the social state has been eroded in all areas, and the goal of development has been lifted behind Mount Kaf. Look, if we have 12 million citizens trying to live on less than $660 per month, if the public owes 68 per cent or pays installments, if there are millions every two days that can't consume the most basic foods, such as meat, chicken, fish, if the child's poverty is broken on record and the financial poverty rate exceeds 30 per cent, we can only talk about the welfare society, not the development, but the collapse. It is the duty of the social government to free society and individual from poverty, not to condemn it to despair. Dear Regents, as you forget, we need a reminder. Your agenda and our people's agenda are not the same because Turkey's real agenda is that a woman in the dumpster finds food and feeds the banana to the child next to her, the children's workers approaching a million, the women's murders, the children's brides, the worry of social peace and peace, the inadequate freedom, the troubled democracy, whereas your agenda is different. You want to change the regime with the Constitutional package, ignoring all the problems that are hurting, you want to take power in one hand, you want to personalize the sovereignty unconditionally, you want to remove the mandate to govern from the Constitution, you want to essentially dissolve the Parliament that you've been able to make the law. You don't choose plurality, you choose majority. He wants it known that we will never allow this amendment, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0192par0626	Thank you, Mr. Whitebird Illustration. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 2 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "names" mentioned in Article 2 of the Sunei Property Act (G) shall be changed to "names." Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan İrfan Bakır Ömer Fethi Gürer Erkan Aydın Mahmut Tanal Atila Sertel Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Murat Emir Niyazi Nefi Kara Ali Özcan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of "reports" in Article 2 of the Common Property Act 341 is changed to "reports." Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Muharrem Varlı Mehmet Günal Mustafa Mit Deniz Depboylu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Sibel Yiğitalp Müslüm Doğan Feleknas Uca Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Diyarbakır MP Feleknas Uca will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Uca.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0193par0659	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I begin my conversation, I'd like to share a message with you: Hello, with all due respect. Being held hostage in captivity as the price of freedom and democracy means nothing to us but a spatial change. Especially when the women's freedom steps are so strong and have caused so much anxiety and anxiety to the rulers of the sexist, nationalist regime, it means nothing more to us than to take a historical responsibility to fight any challenge and risk. If the price of winning is captivity, whether they take the law, the consciences, and hold them hostage in isolation, or banish them to Fizan; whatever they do, we will not refuse to defend the values that make a man free, to do politics, and to resist. We are honored to be a representative of the oppressed and the oppressed peoples, a party that makes politics for the freedom of women and nature. In any case, we will be worthy of this truth. It has always been those who govern Turkey's sufferings, chaos and tragedy. The government is responsible for what happened today. The public must serve the wrongs of governments, not pay the price for it, but the governments must serve the rights of the people. We come not to surrender to Fascism, but to gain our freedom, especially to women and young people, and I believe that her courage, her morale, and her faith will lead us to the struggle for democracy, freedom and justice. The righteous and the oppressed are always good. We're fine, too. Freedom will win, we will win. Greetings, greetings. HDP Siirt MP. Mr. Besime Konca -- who is supposed to be here -- has been taken into custody illegally and is now held hostage in Kandira Type F Prison in front of our group's headquarters as a continuation of the 4 November political coup against our co-chairs and deputies on December 13th. I wish this injustice to end quickly, and I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0194par0671	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement shall be changed in the form of the terms of the terms of the Article 2 of the Sunei Property Act, which is currently in session 341. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0195par0677	We're pulling the motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0194par0678	The motion has been withdrawn and removed from operation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Sunei Property Act 341 be changed in the form of the reference to the names of Article (1) (g) mentioned in the context of Article 2 (g). Ali Özcan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. İstanbul MP Ali Özcan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0196par0690	Mr. President, I'd like to speak for the Republican People's Party on the matter of Article 2 of the Law Bill 341 of the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission. Mr. Secretary, I've always wondered if you'd like to join our proposals one day, please, for the sake of God. Yeah, let's not be so hard on each other. Let's at least make a union here. Now, a constitution has been drawn up and we say, "We are coming with a new constitution." Now, is this really a new constitution or a constitutional amendment to make Recep Tayyip Erdogan president? That's a decision to make. We're always talking about a constitutional text of social reconciliation. But is it? No, we're going to impose a totalitarian regime, and then we're going to crush the state and Turkey with a dictator. If there are no human rights within the constitutional proposal, without basic rights and freedoms, without democracy and equality, this constitution is the constitution of the palace, not of social reconciliation. Let's just admit it for once. The people want to be safe, the people want to be more efficient and stronger, they want to be free of poverty, they want to be free of terror; they're worried about life, the country's turned into a pool of blood, and we're fighting to get the law out of here as soon as possible to strengthen the palace. Now, there's a saying in the public: "The butcher is concerned, and the sheep is anxious for life." What are we in the mood for now? The people want economic stability, they want to get rid of terrorism, they want to get rid of poverty, but our problem is to strengthen Recep Tayyip Erdogan's palace. Society wants to offer us something for peace, I want to be at peace, I want to be in peace, I want to be in brotherhood. But what are we doing? Here, if we do this, we'll already have a real strengthened democratic regime. But what do we do when we need such a constitution? We're trying to make a unique constitution for saving one person's government, for running it. Friends, the entire state of the Republic of Turkey will never be between one person's two lips, and we will accept the presidency within the democratic regime of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Mr. President, within the parliamentary regime, within the constitutional borders, but we will never be the president of him like a dictator. So after the presidency, you're going to bring in a narrow area system, and then you're going to put together three or five provinces, and then you're going to bring it together, and then you're going to have a federation. The purpose of dictators is that it's not integration, it's not unity, it's not integrity; it's governance, it's dissolution, it's governance, it's the way of the imperialists. We, the Republican People's Party, are already here to the Constitution on this matter... Now, let's say, for example, the Constitution, let alone 21 articles, let's put a single clause in a referendum -- don't we call it a national will, a national will -- so let's see if Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the president or not? Let's see how many votes you get, let's see how many percent of the vote you get. But what are we doing? 21 points, we confuse people. Now, friends, we have a level of training. Now, the Minister of National Education has said something about PISA. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He says, "If I had put in science high schools, I would have said Turkey would be third. "E be blessed Minister, then why are you making imam-songs around science high schools?"
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0197par0701	Mr. Ozcan, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0196par0702	What is it with you and your ambition and your glory and your love for it? I'm having trouble understanding what that means.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0197par0703	Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0196par0704	If it's over, it's over. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So in parliamentary regimes, the dictator is always 28 percent; and in the presidential system -- this is concrete -- 52 percent go to dictatorship. Now, because of ethnic, religious differences...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0197par0707	Mr. Özcan, you're out of time, you're out of time, please...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0196par0708	Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, my fellow lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0198par0710	Give me five more minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0199par0711	Don't force me to act unfairly, Mr. Doğan.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0200par0712	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0199par0713	Mr. Bostanci, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0200par0714	Mr. President, just for the record. Mr. Ali, of course, such concepts fly in the air, and such things are done for Mr. Tayyip, etc., etc., and so on. Evaluations in the form of Constitutional changes are not unique to one person; this is one. The content of the constitution's text is discussed in the Commission; there are valuable friends who can read and discuss it. Third: You will go to the nation, and the President will be elected according to the current system in 2019; it is not in anyone's pocket. Perhaps Mr. Ozcan will become President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0201par0718	God forbid! God forbid! Well, then see the unity of the union.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0202par0719	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 1st joke (c) of Article 3 (i.e. Kazim Arslan İrfan Bakır Tahsin Tarhan Niyazi Nefi Kara Eren Erdem Ömer Fethi Gürer Atila Sertel Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Murat Emir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the statement, which is the location of the 3 (b) clause of the Sunei Property Act, number 341, which is currently in session. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Muharrem Varlı Mehmet Günal Mustafa Mit of Deniz Depboy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third article of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Sibel Yiğitalp Müslüm Doğan Kadir Yıldırım Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Mr. Kadir Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0203par0752	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute and salute you all. Today, I have in hand an official Arabic statement from the EPA. This statement clearly states that the Alevis are an open target for them and that the Sunnis, who will act with the Alevi, will be a target for them. I'm about to read it and start translating as far as I can. So, historically, normally, there's no problem between Sunni echo and Alevi echo, but through some formations and organizations, these organizations are used to put conflict between these two sections, and they're intertwined. If it were not for the two years that I had studied alongside Jafari Sadik, even the Imam, I would have been destroyed. ..... [[x]] Then, the Holy Prophet said that he was Hussain, Hussain, Hussain himself; that God himself, I mean Muhammad, had not created Adam yet four thousand years before he created him; and that he had created him from the same light, which is in the Sunni sources. However, as a result of my time, I will try to translate this statement by reading the Arabic phrases of the EPAH. He says: "Yezid is our commanding officer........... your government is our enemy." Why am I saying this? If, so far, there are those who have the slightest support for this organization, those who have the slightest sympathy, wherever they may be, they will be the cause of the massacre or the unpleasant events that will go from DAİH to Alehil. Yes, Yezid is our commander, Hussein is our enemy. So he rebelled against Jezid, the son of Viceroy, his own Imam of Rights, and he got the punishment he deserved. Because Yazid the son of the deputy was the righteous true Caliph of the Muslims. (x) Hüzreti Hussein aims to separate Muslims from each other. Thus, he divides by the fashion of the day. And Halife, the righteous caliph, also defied him. He sort of taught him a lesson. (x) Raffiziler, who is a fan of Hazreti Hussein, (x) This place is interesting, so they're making the people who are lovers of Yazid, the protagonist of the Viceroy. Here, the DA is trying to identify himself as the so-called Sunni, but we know that he has nothing to do with Sunni. If there was time, we'd explain why there's no time. And then it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. After all, he says... (x) Raffizis, and Sunnis, who are also acting with the Raffizis, threaten them, prevent them, and say: "The Sunnis, the people of the house, will not pity you, O Flames, nor those who walk with you, and will teach you a lesson." So we need to realize that. Let's know that there's an Alevi enemy, an archenemy, and a conglomerate, so let's figure out where this is going. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My respects to all of you. I wish there was time to read the whole memo.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0204par0772	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the statement, which is the location of the 3 (b) clause of the Sunei Property Act, number 341, which is currently in session. Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0205par0782	Let's get him to read the motive.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0204par0783	I'm reading the reason: This arrangement allowed real or legal persons who have taken advantage of the protection provided within the borders of the Republic of Turkey. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third article of the Sunei Property Act, number 341, shall be changed in the form of the word "also" (e.g., "g., "g."). Eren Erdem (Istanbul) and his companions Does the Commission agree with the reading motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. İstanbul MP Eren Erdem will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0206par0797	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have just stated that Mr. Secretary, Minister Fikri Ilk, when I asked him about Russian news agency statements, he would not respond. Of course, I don't expect anything else, it's hard to answer, Fikri Bey has to answer himself. We observe that the successful operation continues to cleanse East Aleppo of militants. If he denies his statement, let him rebut it.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0207par0798	Compromise, rebuttal.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0206par0799	In addition, the claim is that the opposition and their family were rescued along with their children from the Ministry. Mr. Secretary, we'll ask you to answer that, and if it's missing, you'll tell us, and we'll be happy.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0207par0801	Reciprocal.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0206par0802	Dear friends, now, this is the Moscow Declaration. I hope someone reads the full text of the Moscow Declaration. Look, let's read the first article together, my dear friends. For one thing, I'm going to read this declaration as a member of parliament who is extremely uncomfortable and wants peace in the region at the point of our involvement in the internal affairs of another country. It says: "Iran, Russia and Turkey again express their respect for the sovereignty, independence, unity, and territorial integrity of the Syrian Arab Republic as a multi-religious, non-religious, democratic and segregated state with many ethnic structures. " Now, dear friends, if we were to sign a declaration like this, if we were to be part of such a declaration, why have we entered into an attitude that has made millions of people's fate -- if you'll forgive me -- in all these years, why do we have to enter, what right do we have? 3 million refugees in Turkey have turned to blood in the region. If this was going to happen, would it be so serious, so many people have to die, dear friends? We're going to take democracy to Syria. We said, "There is no democracy in the region." We said, "There is a one-man regime." We said, "There is a dictatorship." We said, "We have brought the picture of the leading fascist dictator Qatar Emir with our stadium openings." Is there a democracy in Qatar? There's no democracy, but there's dollars. So that's what's going to determine our attitude? So because there is no democracy, we criticize countries in the region. There is no democracy in Qatar, but I believe the presence of the dollar is effective. Dear friends, it's also very important that the last article of the Moscow Declaration is very important. See, it says that the final article says that Iran, Russia, Turkey, ISIS and Al Nusra will repeat their determination to separate armed opposition groups from them. Is there a problem? No. Are they a terrorist organization? It's a terrorist organization. So, my friends, what did Mr. President say just now, October 18th? I got a call from Putin. Sir, El Nusra of Aleppo has made a request for the withdrawal. I've informed the children. Okay, fine. Let's put this aside, let's move on, dear friends. What's worse is that, June 21, 2016, the testimony was very clear, why do you call El Nusra? He said, "Why is El Nusra a terrorist organization?" He used the expression very clearly. Now, my friends, if we were to demonstrate our determination to fight these structures yesterday with the Moscow Declaration, why did we cause so many people to die? Dear friends, look, I'm not the only one who's saying this. A magazine, which your government supports, which doesn't understand humor in a comic magazine -- this magazine that you support, which doesn't actually make humor -- is here to praise those who wear El Nusra symbols and flags, to praise them. At the same time, I'm asking you through that sentence in Article 1 of the Moscow Declaration, which states that we recognize the independence and sovereignty of today's Syrian regime; see, that's an important question, because millions have lost their lives because the answer to this question has not been answered: If we're protecting the independence of the current Assad regime in Syria, why have we used statements so far that have killed millions of people? Here, look, the Dictator, the Fascist Esed, whatever, Esed. We're talking about the patent, so we're dealing with a patent-related issue. Friends, your point in foreign policy puts the patent on the fall of AKP's foreign policy ahead of us. Where we come from is grave, where we come from is a disaster, and what is said is troubling, and the public must be informed immediately about it. Why have we been treated like this, and where we come from, who will take responsibility for these people, who will take responsibility for what's going on, and I salute you all, my friends.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0208par0815	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Minister will have an explanation. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0209par0822	Mr. President, today's statement from a Russian news agency does not belong to my side, this statement is rebutted. Our testimony is that while a successful operation is being carried out on human evacuations from the Halep, the timing of Russia's attack on the Ankara Ambassador is driving. This statement... in particular, we've made a statement from the news agency that it's not true. I also think that fellow lawmakers who follow so closely should follow the countermeasure. It's only been a few hours since this statement was made. For once, I wanted to inform our Assembly General Assembly on this matter. Besides, the Republic of Turkey does not discriminate between any terrorist organization, all terrorist organisations are the same to us. At this point, Turkey displays a completely principled situation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0210par0825	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are two motions in Article 4 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the word "also" shall be changed to "also" in accordance with Article 4 of the Common Property Act, number 341. Kazim Arslan Atila Sertel İrfan Bakr Mahmut Tanal Haydar Akar Dursun Flower Ömer Fethi Gürer Tahsin Tarhan Erkan Aydın Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Murat Emir Niyazi Nefi Kara Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr Ahmet Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0211par0853	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are now interested in patenting, geographical markings and brand registration the basic spirit of 204 articles in this bill, which is shortened as a patent law bill. It is specifically intended to open the way for some capital that could come from abroad, especially after these legal changes, especially from abroad, with local products being registered in the international area, being highlighted, and becoming a universal brand. There's no one who would normally object to that. But let's just say that if we miss the macro photo and think that we can overcome this problem without seeing the reality of the country's investments in domestic and foreign politics, then we're wrong. The country has startled both the internal and external investors, following tension politics on the inside and on the outside, and investments have suffered a serious decline in the past year and a half. Investment likes peace, investment likes peace, and it likes to be able to look at tomorrows safely, and it likes stability. But the unrest, the culture of conflict and camping that has existed in the country for a year and a half, the mistakes made in domestic and foreign politics are the biggest obstacles to investment. Let's put it this way: the political power, which is placing the native and nationalism in its language, has taken all steps in the last two or three years, in particular, that may be contrary to domesticity and nationality. So let's go through a few examples: Look, we know well that many projects he calls the "mega project" have been made especially for foreign capital, and his bill has been given to poor people with the guarantee of treasure. Imagine, if you count the third bridge, the Ottomangazi Bridge, the 3rd airport, the city hospitals, if you count the property of this state, it's all foreign. However, their payment will be paid on taxes, which are the sweats of the poor people, if they are unable to reach the required balance sheet. And in an article he wrote to the İstanbul Security Directorate police units on December 6th, he recommends that the 3rd bridge and Osmangazi Bridge should not be used because it is expensive. Now, for God's sake, the Police Department is writing a paper on these bridges that know they're expensive and guaranteed treasure, and the poor people's crossing the bridge is almost a tank of gas; how are we going to explain it, what conscience are we going to fit into?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0212par0857	Ambulance can't get through, ambulance.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0211par0858	Now, there will be no police to intervene for security, no ambulances to catch the patient, but the poor people will cut their way out of there. It's a job that requires a social project, a job that involves accelerating life, and we're going to be billing the public for almost a tank of gas. I'd like to say that this has nothing to do with conscience, ethics. If the country is wanted to open up, it must be returned from the mistakes committed in domestic and foreign politics. Political genocide operations facing our party must be terminated; the hostages of our mayors, MPs, co-Chairs, party executives must be released immediately. If it's a calendar that's going to reach the presidency through a tension environment, through a camping environment created, it's a big mistake. Let's say that the society structure in Turkey is not so unconscionable; the society structure in Turkey, the co-chairs of a political party, the co-chairs of the group, the MPs, and the owners of this practice facing a referendum in front of us -- we will see that in public research -- we will see that it will reflect in a very serious way -- and that even many of the social communities who have voted for power, in our public investigations, do not accept the arrest of our lawmakers through these political genocide operations. We'll see, I'm saying that if we go to the referendum -- which hopefully won't -- we'll see how the public will be able to take a slap on the political power that can develop through these political genocide operations in this constitutional amendment. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0213par0863	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the word "also" shall be changed to "also" in accordance with Article 4 of the Common Property Act, number 341. Dursun Flower (Istanbul) and his friends Does the Commission agree with the reading motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. İstanbul MP Dursun Cicek will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Flower.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0214par0876	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Sure, it's the Patent Act. In the scheme we've been through, the patents have come into our lives differently. Let's remember 2009-2014. A wet signing campaign, Anti-Irtica Action Plan, a signature; thousands of our loved ones at the time suggested that the right to patent these three words should be received by the Flower family. We've had applications for that, too. In this period, there is an expert report prepared by Mehmet Partigç, who was tried as a suspect in the July 15 coup attempt on the fake piece of paper called the Anti-Irtica Action Plan. Even he reported that there would be no such action plan in his expert report under the military prosecutor's mandate at the time. But for the same action plan, the ruling party went to Ankara Courthouse with its heavy artillery and filed a criminal complaint against us. It's June 2009. We are now about to enter 2017; this case, the Ergenekon case, has been broken by the Supreme Court, and it will be seen again. There's been a lot of correspondence about which one of the criminal courts is in charge of the retrial, but the case is too big, no court will accept it. The year he started, 2008, 2016, there is no justice yet. Let's remember that time. The prime minister of the period has also signed a wet signature, and he has called on the republic's prosecutors four times about me, saying, "Do what is necessary." We filed a criminal complaint against him, arrested April 2010, April 30th, and spent four and a half years in prison. Of course, the ruling party's name begins with justice. In order to earn this name, justice must be distributed by a system that does not distribute justice for eight years. The case will be reopened. Zechariah Oz is the one who filed the indictment. You know who's gonna sit next to him? They're representatives of the ruling party because they haven't withdrawn yet. A little intimacy, a little conscience. The Minister is here. We were going to grant extradition to the victims of these cases. Now, let the guilty be judged most severely, let them be punished; let us ask the People's Witnesses and the People's Party (PKK) and the People's Witnesses in the nation, but can it be claimed that a ruling party, which has not been able to perform this extradition in eight years, deserves the name of a ruling party that has begun with justice?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0215par0882	It can't be.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0216par0883	It does.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0215par0884	It can't be.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0216par0885	Don't tease me, Engin.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0217par0886	Mr. Flower, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0218par0887	Now, Article 104, we're discussing the Constitutional Amendment in the Commission and we're giving the President full authority of the government, the Prime Minister. I shared with you an example of my past experience with the president. I commend you on how unbiased he is. In 1920, we are confident that this nation will stop the attempt to reclaim national sovereignty from the nation and give its sovereignty back to the palace in 2017 -- as I call it law -- in which case, they will stop at the beginning of the initiative. My final statement is that I invite the ruling party to be worthy of its name, as one of the victims now, to uphold the extradition law and not to create new victims. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit02spe0219par0891	Thank you, Mr. Flower. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0219par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 341. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are two motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 5th article of the Sunei Property Act, number 341, shall be changed into "signs that do not have any discrepancy for the intended goods or services," and that the 5th article be removed from the text of matter. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Muharrem Varlı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5 of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Mr. Müslüm Doğan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0220par0024	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to share with you my views on the upcoming Constitutional Amendment to the General Assembly. Our country, which is very weak in its culture of reconciliation, should be able to make a constitution through this negative political climate and community psychology, however difficult it is to do so. We all need to make an intense effort in this regard. A constitution with a social consensus will contribute to peace of the country and to the development of a civic awareness. Therefore, as the process begins, we need to underline an objective and inclusive text and the criteria for equal citizenship that will be the basis of the discussion of "What kind of constitution for Turkey," regardless of parties, ideology, preferences. The constitutions of 1921, 1924, 1961, 1982 and recent amendments to the Constitution of 1982 were not, unfortunately, on the basis of a social contract -- regardless of public participation. All these changes are now giving us an opportunity to solve our social problems. Despite our bad days, the conditions for making a new community contract stand before us as a chance. For the first time in our country, a society-based civil constitution could be established. The civil and social aspects of this constitution must be severe and fundamental. Dear lawmakers, all the constitutions that have been made so far have been made, as you know, at the lowest levels of our urbanization, in a society sociology at a time when our industrial society properties were very weak. Today, urbanisation is expected at 74 per cent and 2020 per cent. So, these data reveal a constitutional requirement to respond to the society's sociology. Our need for a community contract has to be the constitution of an urbanized society, along with the industrial community. What I want to point out here is that we agree that all constitutional studies and the economic and industry of constitutions that have been done so far have been done in an economic sociology, at a low or development level, in a weak middle class, and not common. Today, the circumstances are different, precious MPs. Starting in Asia Minor, there's a Turkey whose economy is developing and becoming dynamic and middle-class. The new community contract should be in a way that responds to sociology of a society that began in the middle class, which started in the environment of economic dynamics, Asia Minor. Because of the government and state policies that have been implemented today, Turkey faces a problem that is extremely polarized, identified, with very little general trust between identities and different ones. The new constitution should be able to respond to polarisation and trust issues, strengthen the culture and general trust of living together. This also applies to the definition of equal citizenship. Equal citizenship should not escape its status, but equal citizenship should point to the basis of the constitution. Also, another thing we can say is that today Turkey is a country where trust in law is very little, almost zeroed out. The new constitution should be able to strengthen the trust of the law in solving problems in every area. As a product of our country's process, as shown by international indexes and research, the performance of democracy in particular in the field of rights and freedoms of Turkey is very weak; we are governed by a democracy with a very strong tendency to authoritarianism. The new constitution should not only be new and civil, but also a democratic constitution. The weakening of military custody, instead of being completely eliminated, will serve to promote Turkey's democracy. In other words, building a new and civil constitution to address the problem of democracy should be targeted. Although Turkey has been ruled by parliamentary democracy for 90 years, parliament and lawmakers have unfortunately had a democracy that was dysfunctional and weak. When the issue of judicial independence and neutrality was added, a serious balance and control issue arose. The new constitution, the balance and control mechanisms between executive-Yasama-judgment, must be strong and capable of making lawmakers functional. Due to Neoliberal policies, Turkey's economy has been suffering from mid-income traps and economic stagnation for the past five years. The income per person is constantly dwindling, as it does not go beyond 10,000 dollars. Economic growth has stopped. These problems will continue to become heavy. The new constitution must be based on stable, strong, sustainable, environmentally friendly and human development, which is based on ecological society life. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0221par0036	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. I submit the motion to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5/b of Sinei Property Act 341 be changed into "signs that do not have any discrepancy for the intended goods or services," and that Article 5/1 of Article 5 be removed from the text of matter. Emin Haluk Ayhan (Marine) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: In Article 4 of the bill, abstract discrimination is already taking place. The bill should also emphasise concrete discrepancy. It is also not appropriate to be provided only for geographical signs when there is no such protection regarding other testing property rights. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions in Article 6 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At the end of the fourth joke in Article 6 of the Constitutional Property Act 341, which is currently in session, "5. In the event of the conditions in the joke, same or similar brand applications, different goods and/or services, are rejected on the basis of appeal." We offer to add his statement. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Muharrem Varlı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Who will speak on the motion?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0222par0069	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0221par0070	I'm having it read. The Sunei Property Bill that we've been introduced to is that companies are non-metal, but they're producing, distribution, marketing, etc. It provides a measure that protects the monopoly of the large company, which has both the pre-competitive and especially the large number of components that provide productivity in its processes. Its role in the international production arena is that a country based on editing and intermediary production needs international monopoly to develop RD opportunities, design, technology, brand and so forth. There's no way to prevent it from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights. Because in an environment like this, an asymmetry in terms of producer powers between state-owned companies, domestic companies and cooperatives -- especially the SME -- is going to make the local elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. Rights losses and problems, which have been cited as grounds for the bill and were born from the annulments of the Constitutional Court, are nothing more than international monopoly problems and loss of rights. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, the legalisation of the Sunei Property Bill can be seen to do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, design, invention, etc. We are politically opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will categorize the unilateral ownership of processes and, in concrete terms of foreign capital, will make public economy, cooperatives and KOBIs unable to survive and make people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0223par0075	We're pulling back.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0221par0076	The motion has been withdrawn since it was withdrawn. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion in Article 7 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 7th article of Law Bill 342, which is to be discussed, be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0224par0089	Motive...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0221par0090	I'm having the reason read on the motion: The experimental property bill that comes before us is companies' non-metal but not production, distribution, marketing, etc. It provides a measure that protects the monopoly of the large company, which has both the pre-competitive and especially the large number of components that provide productivity in its processes. Its role in the international production arena is that a country based on editing and intermediary production needs international monopoly to develop RD opportunities, design, technology, brand and so forth. There's no way to prevent it from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights. Because in such an environment, an asymmetry will arise in terms of productive powers, among public companies, domestic companies, and cooperatives -- particularly the international monopoly on production based on R&D -- and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. Rights losses and problems, which have been cited as grounds for the bill and were born from the annulments of the Constitutional Court, are nothing more than international monopoly problems and loss of rights. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, the legalisation of the Sunei Property Bill can be seen to do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, design, invention, etc. We are politically opposed as a party to the legalisation of this bill, which will categorize the unilateral ownership of processes and in concrete terms of foreign capital, which will make public economy, cooperatives and COBIs unable to survive and make people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion in Article 8 that I'm having read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the 8th article of Law Bill 341 is not removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The Sunei Property Bill that we've been brought up in front of us is that companies are non-metal, but they're not made, they're distributed, they're marketed and so on. It provides a measure that protects the monopoly of the large company, which has both the pre-competitive and especially the large number of components that provide productivity in its processes. Its role in the international production arena is that a country based on editing and intermediary production needs international monopoly to develop RD opportunities, design, technology, brand and so forth. There's no way to prevent it from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights. Because in such an environment, an asymmetry will arise in terms of productive powers, among public companies, domestic companies, and cooperatives -- particularly the international monopoly on production based on R&D -- and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. The bill is nothing more than the problems and losses of international monopoly and the losses of the rights and problems mentioned by the Constitutional Court as the basis for the cancellations. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, the legalisation of the Sunei Property Bill can be seen to do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, design, invention, etc. As a party, we are politically opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will categorize the unilateral ownership of processes and in concrete terms of foreign capital, which will make public economy, cooperatives and COBIs unable to survive and make people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion in Article 9 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 9th article of the current Law Bill 341 rows be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0225par0123	Motive...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0221par0124	I'm having it read. The Sunei Property Bill that we're looking at is that companies are non-metal, but they're producing, distribution, marketing and so on. It provides a measure that protects the monopoly of the large company, which has both the pre-competitive and especially the large number of components that provide productivity in its processes. Its role in the international production arena is that a country based on editing and intermediary production needs international monopoly to develop RD opportunities, design, technology, brand and so forth. There's no way to prevent it from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights. Because in such an environment, an asymmetry will arise in terms of productive powers, among public companies, domestic companies, and cooperatives -- particularly the international monopoly, which is based on R&D -- and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. The bill is nothing more than the problems and the losses of international monopoly and the losses of rights, which are stated by the Constitutional Court as a basis for its cancellations. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, the legalisation of the Sunei Property Bill can be seen to do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, design, invention, etc. As a party, we are politically opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will categorize the unilateral ownership of processes and in concrete terms of foreign capital, which will make the public economy, co-operatives, and the COBIs unable to survive, and make the people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 10 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement be handed over to him as well as to the 10th Article of the Constitutional Property Act 341, which is currently in session. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Muharrem Varlı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the current Law Bill 341 rows be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The Sunei Property Bill that we've been brought up in front of us is that companies are non-metal, but they're not made, they're distributed, they're marketed and so on. It provides a measure that protects the monopoly of the large company, which has both the pre-competitive and especially the large number of components that provide productivity in its processes. Its role in the international production arena is that a country based on editing and intermediary production needs international monopoly to develop RD opportunities, design, technology, and so on. There's no way to prevent it from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights. Because, in such an environment, asymmetry will arise in terms of producer powers, among public companies, domestic companies, and cooperatives, especially those of international monopoly based on R&D, and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. The bill is nothing more than the problems and the losses of international monopoly and the losses of rights, which are stated by the Constitutional Court as a basis for its cancellations. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, the legalisation of the Sunei Property Bill can be seen to do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, as a party, we are legally opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will allow design, invention, and development processes to become one-sided property, and, in concrete terms, in the face of foreign capital, make public economy, cooperatives and COBIs unable to survive, and make the people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of "accession of the registration be handed over to him as well as to the 10th article of the Constitutional Property Act, which is 341 rows in question. Emin Haluk Ayhan (Marine) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0226par0158	Motive...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0221par0159	I'm reading the reason: If the brand is registered to the same or undistinguishable brand without the permission of its owner, if the commercial proxy or representative has no legitimate reason, the brand owner can ask the court to ban the use of its brand, however, it has been arranged to prevent its transfer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion in Article 11 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0227par0175	Motive...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0221par0176	I'm reading the reason: The Sunei Property Bill, brought before us, provides a measure to protect the monopoly of companies' non-metal components, which provide productivity in production, distribution, marketing and so on, both temporary in competition and especially in large numbers of them. What a country based on editing and intermediary production of the international production arena needs to develop RD opportunities is not to prevent international monopoly from being implemented within the country by protecting its design, technology, brand and so on. Because in such an environment, an asymmetry will arise in terms of producer powers, among public companies, domestic companies, and cooperatives, especially those of international monopoly based on R&D, and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. Rights losses and problems, which have been cited as grounds for the bill and were born from the annulments of the Constitutional Court, are nothing more than international monopoly problems and loss of rights. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, the legalisation of the Sunei Property Bill can be seen to do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, design, invention, etc. As a party, we are politically opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will categorize the unilateral ownership of processes and in concrete terms of foreign capital, which will make public economy, cooperatives and COBIs unable to survive and make people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion in Article 12 that I'm having read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the 12th article of the Law Bill 341 is not removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0228par0192	Motive...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0221par0193	I'm reading the reason: The Sunei Property Bill that we've been introduced to is that companies are non-metal, but they're producing, distribution, marketing, etc. It provides a measure that protects the monopoly of the large company, which has both the pre-competitive and especially the large number of components that provide productivity in its processes. Its role in the international production arena is that a country based on editing and intermediary production needs international monopoly to develop RD opportunities, design, technology, and so on. There's no way to prevent it from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights. Because in such an environment, an asymmetry will arise in terms of productive powers, among public companies, domestic companies, and cooperatives -- particularly the international monopoly on production based on R&D -- and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. Rights losses and problems, which have been cited as grounds for the bill and were born from the annulments of the Constitutional Court, are nothing more than international monopoly problems and loss of rights. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, the legalisation of the Sunei Property Bill can be seen to do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, design, invention, etc. As a party, we are politically opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will categorize the unilateral ownership of processes and in concrete terms of foreign capital, which will make the public economy, co-operatives, and the COBIs unable to survive, and make the people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion in Article 13 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply that the 13th article of Law Bill 341 shall not be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0229par0209	Motive...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0221par0210	I'm reading the reason: The Sunei Property Bill that we've been brought up in front of us is that companies are non-metal, but they're not made, they're distributed, they're marketed and so on. It provides a measure that protects the monopoly of the large company, which has both the pre-competitive and especially the large number of components that provide productivity in its processes. Its role in the international production arena is that a country based on editing and intermediary production needs international monopoly to develop RD opportunities, design, technology, brand and so forth. There's no way to prevent it from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights. Because in such an environment, an asymmetry will arise in terms of productive powers, among public companies, domestic companies, and cooperatives -- particularly the international monopoly, which is based on R&D -- and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. The rights losses and problems of international monopoly are nothing more than the problems and loss of rights of international monopoly, which have been cited as grounds for the bill and was born from the annulments of the Constitutional Court. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, the legalisation of the Sunei Property Bill can be seen to do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, design, invention, etc. As a party, we are politically opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will categorize the unilateral ownership of processes and in concrete terms of foreign capital, which will make the public economy, co-operatives, and the COBIs unable to survive, and make the people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion in Article 14 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. I'm having it read. The Bill of the Financial Property Act, which is brought before us, is that companies are non-metal, but they're not made, they're distributed, they're marketed and so on. It provides a measure that protects the monopoly of the large company, which has both the pre-competitive and especially the large number of components that provide productivity in its processes. Its role in the international production arena is that a country based on editing and intermediary production needs international monopoly to develop RD opportunities, design, technology, and so on. There's no way to prevent it from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights. Because in such an environment, an asymmetry will arise in terms of producer powers, among public companies, domestic companies, and cooperatives, especially those of international monopoly based on R&D, and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. The bill is nothing more than the problems and losses of international monopoly and the losses of the rights and problems mentioned by the Constitutional Court as the basis for the cancellations. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic point of view alone, it can be seen that the legalisation of the Sunei Property Law will do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, design, invention, etc. As a party, we are politically opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will categorize the unilateral ownership of processes and in concrete terms of foreign capital, which will make public economy, cooperatives and COBIs unable to survive and make people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion in Article 15 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 15th article of the current Law Bill 341 rows be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. I'm having it read. The Sunei Property Bill that we're looking at is that companies are non-metal, but they're producing, distribution, marketing and so on. It provides a measure that protects the monopoly of the large company, which has both the pre-competitive and especially the large number of components that provide productivity in its processes. What a country based on editing and intermediary production of the international production arena needs is not to prevent international monopoly from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights to design, technology, brand and so on. Because in such an environment, an asymmetry will arise in terms of productive powers, among public companies, domestic companies, and cooperatives -- particularly the international monopoly, which is based on R&D -- and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. Rights losses and problems, which have been cited as grounds for the bill and were born from the annulments of the Constitutional Court, are nothing more than international monopoly problems and loss of rights. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, the legalisation of the Sunei Property Bill can be seen to do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, design, invention, etc. As a party, we are politically opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will categorize the unilateral ownership of processes and in concrete terms of foreign capital, which will make public economy, cooperatives and COBIs unable to survive and make people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion in Article 16 that I'm having read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply that the 16th article of the current Law Bill 341 rows should not be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The Sunei Property Bill that we're looking at is that companies are non-metal, but they're producing, distribution, marketing and so on. It provides a measure that protects the monopoly of the large company, which has both the pre-competitive and especially the large number of components that provide productivity in its processes. Its role in the international production arena is that a country based on editing and intermediary production needs international monopoly to develop RD opportunities, design, technology, brand and so forth. There's no way to prevent it from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights. Because in such an environment, an asymmetry will arise in terms of productive powers, among public companies, domestic companies, and cooperatives -- particularly the international monopoly, which is based on R&D -- and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. Rights losses and problems, which have been cited as grounds for the bill and were born from the annulments of the Constitutional Court, are nothing more than international monopoly problems and loss of rights. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, the legalisation of the Sunei Property Bill can be seen to do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, design, invention, etc. As a party, we are politically opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will categorize the unilateral ownership of processes and in concrete terms of foreign capital, which will make public economy, cooperatives and COBIs unable to survive and make people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion in Article 17 that I make to read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 17th article of the Common Law Bill 341 rows be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The Sunei Property Bill that we've been introduced to is that companies are non-metal, but they're producing, distribution, marketing, etc. It provides a measure that protects the monopoly of the large company, which has both the pre-competitive and especially the large number of components that provide productivity in its processes. Its role in the international production arena is that a country based on editing and intermediary production needs international monopoly to develop RD opportunities, design, technology, brand and so forth. There's no way to prevent it from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights. Because in such an environment, an asymmetry will arise in terms of productive powers, among public companies, domestic companies, and cooperatives -- particularly the international monopoly on production based on R&D -- and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. Rights losses and problems, which have been cited as grounds for the bill and were born from the annulments of the Constitutional Court, are nothing more than international monopoly problems and loss of rights. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, the legalisation of the Sunei Property Bill can be seen to do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, design, invention, etc. As a party, we are politically opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will categorize the unilateral ownership of processes and in concrete terms of foreign capital, which will make public economy, cooperatives and COBIs unable to survive and make people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion in Article 18 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 18 of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. I'm having it read. The Sunei Property Bill that we're looking at is non-metal for companies, but it's production, distribution, marketing and so on. It provides a measure that protects the monopoly of large companies, which have both the pre-competitive and especially a large number of them in their process. Its role in the international production arena is that a country based on editing and intermediary production needs international monopoly to develop RD opportunities, design, technology, brand and so forth. There's no way to prevent it from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights. Because in such an environment, an asymmetry will arise in terms of productive powers, among public companies, domestic companies, and cooperatives -- particularly the international monopoly, which is based on R&D -- and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. Rights losses and problems, which have been cited as grounds for the bill and were born from the annulments of the Constitutional Court, are nothing more than international monopoly problems and loss of rights. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, the legalisation of the Sunei Property Bill can be seen to do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, design, invention, etc. As a party, we are politically opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will categorize the unilateral ownership of processes and in concrete terms of foreign capital, which will make public economy, cooperatives and COBIs unable to survive and make people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Something wrong, fellas?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0230par0297	Mr. Ozcan was reading one, we can't understand this friend.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0221par0298	I'll give him a disciplinary action later.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0231par0299	We're very pleased, Mr. President, that she reads very well.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0232par0300	Then I'll read slowly. If Osman Bey is pleased, I'll read slowly.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0221par0301	There is a motion in Article 19 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 19th article of the current Law Bill 341 rows be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0233par0312	Motive...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0221par0313	I'm reading the reason: The Sunei Property Bill that we've been introduced to is that companies are non-metal, but they're producing, distribution, marketing, etc. It provides a measure that protects the monopoly of the large company, which has both the pre-competitive and especially the large number of components that provide productivity in its processes. Its role in the international production arena is that a country based on editing and intermediary production needs international monopoly to develop RD opportunities, design, technology, brand and so forth. There's no way to prevent it from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights. Because in an environment like this, an asymmetry in terms of producer powers between state-owned companies, domestic companies and cooperatives -- especially the SME -- is going to make the local elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. Rights losses and problems, which have been cited as grounds for the bill and were born from the annulments of the Constitutional Court, are nothing more than international monopoly problems and loss of rights. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, the legalisation of the Sunei Property Bill can be seen to do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, design, invention, etc. As a party, we are politically opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will categorize the unilateral ownership of processes and in concrete terms of foreign capital, which will make public economy, cooperatives and COBIs unable to survive and make people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "It is possible to submit a judicial decision that will affect the issue of objection before the period of appeal is over and the appeals are concluded." in the form (3) We provide and propose the addition of the third joke. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Muharrem Varlı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 20 of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Mr Ahmet Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0234par0338	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're dealing with a package of valuable lawmakers, especially from the fact that the country's own assets and endemic products are both registered as a brand and have a brand value in international circulation. But I told you in my previous speech, a political statement developed over domesticity and nationality, but we're facing a reality where all the country's subterranean wealth -- if I'm right -- is attracting international capital. All the big mega projects of this country that have been built recently are not the state of this country, they are not the nation, they are the foreigners, it's very clear. Bridges, tunnels, portals, city hospitals, airports that cost billions of dollars are all foreigners.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0235par0340	It's people's property.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0234par0341	You can look into what's been done in the last three years. Another: Look, we are the only countries in this world that have handed over their own communism and communication to a stranger in 200 countries. We've handed over the TELEKOM to the foreigners. On this earth, you can't show a second country that has transferred its communation to a foreign capital. We're so local, so national. Another thing: look, let me remind you of a tradition we've all known since we were kids in our education, in our education lives. This month, Mr. Secretary, is a month of celebration of Indian Property Week. Now, we used to take what people of this country used to produce in elementary school, middle school, when we were celebrating Indian Property Week, and we took it to school, and the consciousness of the production of domestic goods was debated. Now, as a teacher's wife, when I ask the teachers around me, we find it difficult to show the children the importance of this Indian Property Week. We say bring something, they bring Coca Cola... We're so local, we're so national. So we're looking at the reality of a country that's gone far from grasping the resources of this country, the sweat of the forehead, the light of the eye, and it's alienated by our own children. We've become a country where foreign brands are much better known than domestic brands. Let's face it, but if not, domesticity and nationality should be stopped from being an argument that the government will only use to investigate and maintain its own power. We'll call it nativeism and nationality, but in no way in our lives, there's nothing in language, culture, products produced, natural products, cultural processes, about domesticity, about nationality. Rather than knowing the real products of Anatolia, Mesopotamia, or Thracian geography, the brands that are not their own are better known to children. We can see it in music, in art, in culture, in many ways. Now, dear MPs, this is the reality of a country. Now, if anyone's proud of the locality and nationality of a country like this, they might be, but such a nativeism is not something to be proud of for me or for most of this country, I think. And we're dealing with a generation and generations that are increasingly degenerative, especially in terms of democratic conditions; in terms of tolerance for differences, respect for differences. We're not in a place where we don't think like us, we don't live like us, we're not born like us, God doesn't give us qualities, we don't respect the difference of people he's created differently. We don't have that kind of social reality. On the contrary, we are sadly faced with the power reality of people scratching against each other in terms of social groups. Ethnic, religious, religious differences are not a source of wealth for us, but a common cause of competition in politics. I say this country has turned into a country like this, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0236par0349	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is possible to submit a judicial decision that will affect the issue of objection before the period of appeal is over and the appeals process is concluded." in the form (3) We provide and propose the addition of the third joke. Emin Haluk Ayhan (Marine) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0237par0359	Motive...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0236par0360	I'm reading the reason: The appeals process in the brand registration phases arise as a necessity. From time to time, there is an objection between brand owners and those who want to register brands. Cases related to the issue may also be involved as the Turkish Patent Institute process of appeals is under way. After the period of appeal is over, a court decision may also be able to change the course of the objection. "The grounds for objection cannot be changed and new reasons cannot be added after the period of the appeal," the 19th article (2). The reason for the verdict is to reduce the burden of the courts, one of the purposes of the objection. However, the loss of rights can be caused if the reasons cannot be changed or new reasons are not added. This could lead to a retrial of the issue. Thus, it is thought that it would be appropriate for a joke to be added to the bill's 20th article, that it is possible to submit a judicial decision that would affect the issue of the objection before the appeals are concluded. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion in Article 21 that I'm reading:
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0238par0367	We're rolling, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0236par0368	The motion has been drawn. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion in Article 22 that I'm having read...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0239par0371	We're rolling.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0236par0372	Are you filming that, too?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0239par0373	We're pulling it up to 25.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0236par0374	I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 26 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that Article 26 of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0240par0389	Motive...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0236par0390	I'm reading the reason: The Sunei Property Bill, brought before us, provides a measure for the non-metal but productive components of companies in production, distribution, marketing and so on, both temporary in competition and especially to protect the monopoly of a large company that has a large number of them. Its role in the international production arena is that a country based on editing and intermediary production needs international monopoly to develop RD opportunities, design, technology, brand and so forth. There's no way to prevent it from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights. Because in such an environment, there will be asymmetry in terms of producer powers, among public companies, domestic companies, and cooperatives, especially SMEs, with international monopoly based on R&D production, and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. The rights losses and problems of international monopoly are nothing more than the problems and loss of rights of international monopoly, which have been cited as grounds for the bill and was born from the annulments of the Constitutional Court. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, the legalisation of the Sunei Property Bill can be seen to do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, design, invention, etc. As a party, we are politically opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will categorize the unilateral ownership of processes and in concrete terms of foreign capital, which will make the public economy, co-operatives, and the COBIs unable to survive, and make the people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. We will now begin negotiations on chapter two. The second chapter covers Article 29 through 54. On the second chapter, İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0241par0403	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the second part of the bill we're discussing, first I salute our General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we're discussing another bill, which the country's economy needs, but is very late and has insufficient regulations. In a country's economy, property rights are extremely important in order for things to progress properly, and one of those rights is, and perhaps most importantly, the testing property rights. It is also widely accepted today that international firms are afraid to carry high-tech processes to countries like ours, such as R&D, and countries that do not have a strong test property protection regime. This is why it is necessary to establish a legal structure for the protection of rights and the proper removal of relations with native-foreigners who have these rights. Precious lawmakers also reassure local and foreign investors in the world, including property rights and judicial independence, which ensures the equality of opportunities. We have recently developed a sense of lack of judicial independence, opportunities and money being collected in the hands of a certain group, which has increased the insecurity of the economy. So, this insecurity to the economy has also been revealed in the consumer trust index, which is revealed today, and we're dealing with an index with the sharpest decline of eight years. And when we look at this economy that's growing insecurity, we see that there's been a disturbance in the currency, as well as destabilization in the currency. Turkey has been in the middle income trap for a long time and is still among the most fragile economies today. Our low savings rates, our increasing external and current deficits, our low and declining productivity, our efficiency coefficient, are now in place.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0242par0407	TIK has corrected it, Mr. Secretary. TÜK fixed the savings, but the government couldn't fix it.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0241par0408	It is clear that construction and fellow sergeant economy will no longer achieve Turkey's desired rate of growth. As a matter of fact, when we look at the third quarter figures, we see a 3.2 per cent decline in household consumption and an increase in investment spending by 6 per thousand, 7 per cent in exports. In the first quarter of the year, the industrial sector, which contributes 1.7 per cent to economic growth, seems to have narrowed down 3 per thousand by the time we look at it as of the last quarter. Again, when we look at the first ten months of 2016, the valued lawmakers have also dropped industrial production to 1.6 per cent, which is the worst number of the last five years. It's not like the crisis in 1994, 2001, 2008, as we've been told about the turmoil in the economy we live in. The most dissimilar situation here, the current situation, is that what we're experiencing now is that, in 2008 and then, when the public can be managed by some intervention in the economy, it's now coming out of this situation and it's going to a different point. As a matter of fact, on November 24th, the Central Bank, you know, tried to pump the economy with interest increases. The decisions of the Economic Co-ordination Board were followed, and the decisions of the Central Bank and the board could not have led both to the savings of the citizens and to the savings of the public -- about $343m -- to the withdrawal of foreign capital to enough Turkey, or to prevent loss in TL. As the exchange goes up, Turkish lira melts, and all of our entrepreneurs, especially our citizens, are seriously affected by it. Turkey's economy now faces another risk. With a cost inflation, we can predict that the economy of Turkey could be facing any moment. One of the main causes of today's economic crisis is that foreign funds have left this country. When we looked at November, the foreign portfolio came down to $14.6 billion and went down to 80 or so billion in total. In recent years, hot money owners have almost $10 billion -- for example, around $14 billion in the year 2015 -- and they're moving money out with interest transfers. Now, a key factor in foreign exporting money and getting away from us is the delay of the legal texts that we're meeting today with these illegal, insecure, and flawed economic policies, the valued lawmakers. Today, in this scope, we see that the steps taken in this area during the 57th Government -- the steps of the Sunei Property Law, which are now under the law -- have been envisioned, but unfortunately, they were not followed with the necessary care, but they were brought to today. At the time, however, Turkey joined the European Patent Convention with Law 4504 on January 27, 2000. Another issue was carried out on 1 November 2000, when our country, which accepted the European Patent Convention, earned the right to become the 20th member of the European Patent Office. So some steps have been taken in the past, but then these steps haven't been carefully brought up until today. When we look at the second part of the bill, we also see that the materials, and the need in this area, are not fully met, and that there may be a need for redevelopment in later times. Especially the vagueness of control over geographical markings needs to be resolved, valued lawmakers. The objective here is not to give the institute an audit report every two years. Whether the manufacturers produce properly should be controlled at certain intervals by the institute, including the detection and prevention of imitation products within this scope. Now, when we return to today's economy, the technological transformation, efficiency, investment trends, and particularly the activity of testing property rights in the way that growth should be, is at a point where it can't establish a close relationship and a direct connection between the activity of protecting property rights, especially the potential to attract foreign investments. In order for economic growth to be captured both inside and export, Turkey must also make moves on testing rights and create valuable innovations. Although -- it's been suggested by the chief -- that some patents and brands have been increased, the important thing here is whether Turkey has created a preferred global brand that remains in mind in 14 years. If we had more control over local products in the last 14 years, we could have made $10 billion a year, along with other strategic items, from the marketing of these products. Of course, that would contribute to both our exports and our growth. Turkey has caught nearly 75 per cent of growth in the last decade, lawmakers, due to domestic demand. So in the coming years, we also need to focus on the export of innovative products, both based on R&D and based on test property rights, among the goals of our economic growth. In this scope, the most important component of the sustainable and sustainable growth strategy is to add technological innovation in traditional sectors and to increase the share of advanced technology in production and exports. The way to increase this is by withdrawing investments in both domestic and foreign private sectors. So it comes down to how we're going to do this, how the climate of investment and the environment of investment is going to be improved, but once again, let me just say it's not just about incentive. Because a new one of the incentive packs is being prepared before the ink dries, which means there's also a need for new ones, and the old one can't see this job, the precious MPs. We also need some policies that any investor can trust in our country and our economy. In that sense, the real reason for our recession is not the lack of encouragement, but the wrongs in politics, and they need to be corrected. In this regard, I think we need to become a country, not a country that makes a difference, but a country that makes a difference. Once again, I salute our General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0243par0420	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Tacettin Bayır will speak. Here you go, Mr. Ridge.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0244par0424	I salute the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear friends, as a matter of fact, I got a lot of calls today. My friends who were interested in politics about the work of parliament asked me, "What are you doing? In fact, there is not much dissension between the ruling party and the Republican People's Party on the subject of testing property, patents and other issues as members of the Commission. And thanks to our proposals, Mr. Secretary and the Commission have accepted, I thank them from here. In this sense, the question of the citizen is: the country is on fire, the economic problem is big, what are you still talking about there, what are you talking about? I'd like to make a point about the country's agenda. In many ways, the facts that contain heavy and complex negativity begin to appear when danger arises. Behind the secrets that trigger the wheel of violence lies hundreds of martyrs, hundreds of weeping parents, hundreds of orphaned children, hundreds of unsolveds. In the process of looting our national presence, Turkey's situation today is the result of 15 years of dissolution. People want to live their lives in a free and peaceful frame of life, where their souls are not crushed. Their dissatisfaction, fear, and anxiety from their circumstances will come, and, sadly, their hope will increase their longing for the past, as it does not make them optimistic. In fact, those who want to bring our country to the stage of decay and disintegration by the siege of terror aim to destroy each other. The example of war shows political traps that violate the principle of unity. There is nothing wrong with this nation. They act out the destructive power of psychological warfare under their rhetoric, created and led by fear and chaos. There's no people or country on the road maps under the yoke of imperialism. We're in the grip of the most planned and organized exploiter ever seen in human history. In this war, there are all kinds of attempts to win the cause; faith differences, local divisions are being taken advantage of. Thus, there is no need for military action for turmoil and conflict. How did we get to these points? In the 1994 local elections, the late Erbakan said to him, "We will come, and you will decide whether this will be bloody or bloodless." This increasingly violent expression actually drew the bloody boundaries of the dark picture that we were in at that time. The aim of those who use religion to do politics was clear: the secularists and the Kemalists. They prepared not for peace, but for war, in the bloody shadow of violence, in the shadow of terror. They feared the public's enlightenment. The order in Turkey began not to work for those who turned the people's faith, their spirituality, into their own interests. Orhan Veli said I was listening to Istanbul with my eyes closed; in his lines he spoke of the love of poetry, man, and life, with love, with passion, with longing. Now in our country, the sound of violence, the sound of death is heard, so that they are blind and deaf to those who do not accept this bloody system. On October 20, 1994, the daily Sabah made a report on the decline of education titled Aslan Pay Diyanete. The article's opening statement was: "In the 1995 budget, there was much more funding from the Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of Interior." What was the meaning of that? The education system would collapse, the life of faith would move ahead in the lines of cults and congregations, preventing science. The order fears the thinking man. A person who thinks, investigates, questions is dangerous, according to that understanding. In Turkey, the attempt to extinguish the republic's light began at this time, and September 12th was the last link. To sum it up, one nation's administration, its rulers responsible for the security of the country, have forgotten their duties and have done great harm to the Republic of Turkey because of its personal ambitions, ambitions, and personal disputes, and the happiness of the three or five people has become this because of their insatiable desire for wealth. The government, which is not subject to political or legal control, has an infinite power, and has been unable to prevent terrorist attacks for 15 years, unfortunately. In the middle of town, a car can be filled with hundreds of pounds of bombs and detonated. In one year, more than 360 people died in 17 major attacks, and more than 1,800 people were injured because of the weakness of government. While it is not too difficult to keep a broken nation alive, it seems inevitable to divide in a country that falls into such a situation. While Turkey is under such threat, those who turn it into an opportunity insist on changing the regime. Bombs are going off on one side, we're losing our young children, on the other hand, the constitution is being changed in this chaos, it's said to bring stability to this system. So, how do we get out of this process? In such chaos, the public feels betrayed and politically exposed. Fear and despair in people's eyes are on the streets. In these days, in order to avoid greater suffering, every individual, intellectuals, educators, authors, politicians, without despair, without fear, without fear, in every case, they need to enlighten the nation, warn the general goal, and take advantage of every occasion to approach the public, to be united with the people, because the Turkish nation has lost its trust in politicians and politics, who run the country. Adeta, even those with epaulets, whom We have not read mercy from behind them, have brought them to a place where they can read mercy. So, at this point, I think the most important thing we should hug, hug, is the Republican People's Party, the founder of the republic, and I think it's time to give its power a chance. Now, for the indivisible integrity of the country, I think we need to embrace the republic, the republic's values, in order to live as brothers and bring this country out of its chaos. In order to be confused by the supporting media, there is also the president's system in the United States. I want to tell the MPs of the ruling community, especially the academics who are arguing that this should be brought on television: Yes, there is a presidential system in the United States. Barack Obama examines or rejects the laws from Congress and again nominates ambassadors and federal judges. If the Senate approves the candidates for the president, he may begin his post. Look, look, look, what's he saying? The president is running for office, the Senate is choosing. Is this in the system you're bringing in, I'm asking the ruling lawmakers, is this available? Please tell the public the truth. Some of our friends confuse our people by speaking here without even reading the new draft of the Constitution. Let's be clear, let's be clear. In short, we will take care of the republic and its values with all our hands, and we will never, ever let this Constitution be slaughtered. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0245par0439	Thank you, Mr. Ridge. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Rebel Yiğitalp will speak. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0246par0443	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today, or rather yesterday, our captain of the Amedspor team, who said, "Don't let the children die, let them come to the game." Mr. Şehmus Ozer died in a car accident. I'd like to start by saying that I'm sorry for Amedsporun and all of Ameds and football fans. The country is in chaos, the place of fire, and we're discussing the law here every day, but unfortunately we haven't seen a practical solution to the law and what to do. There have been 32 bombings in the last year and 32 bombings, and either mercy has been read as Parliament, or it has been condemned with hate, but after that, no sentence has been made by the government, particularly the government, about what to do, what to do, what to take a stance, or what to do in a process that has come from a third bombing, or from the fifth to 32. Again, I would like to say that this country has a Kurdish problem for a hundred years, and in these last 40 years, six Presidents, 14 Prime Minister, 15 Parliament Speakers, 26 Interior Minister, 11 Chiefs of General Staff, who have insisted on security issues with the Kurdish issue, so many have changed, they have come. Each arrival tried to strengthen its power over the ground of calm and non-dispute for a while; from behind, we came back to this day, again, turning to violent policies, as soon as he realized that the lack of conflict had shaken his power. Now, when we look at the number of political operations that have been done to our party over the past year and a half, if there really was another party, it probably wouldn't have had an escalation, but we're still standing because of the organisation of the Kurdish people or the democratic opposition, the left socialist section, all of the other ones. Look, since July 15th -- I'm just telling you this 2016 -- 4,222 people have been taken into custody and 1,068 people have been arrested. We've got three MYKs in there, we've got four PMHs in there, and 1,068 people have been arrested and hundreds of thousands have been dismissed, including the executives of our county and borough organisations. That wasn't enough, the last 12 of our deputies were detained, arrested, and those with files were sometimes taken into custody and released as if it were a very natural, very normal event. However, the arrest of the presidents of a political party with millions of votes should be an incredibly controversial issue here. Not us, we were going to discuss it anyway, but here the opposition and the power would have to have the same reaction, and they would have to say, here, in this Parliament... Look, there have been 32 bombings, thousands of people have lost their lives, and fire has fallen on everyone's house; it's not discussed, it's not discussed, it's not discussed, and the violence is growing. When we have time and opportunity to talk, let's talk, let's not let fire fall on other houses, other lives, other cubs die, and the way to do that is to talk. But when we talk about it, when the reaction comes from here, when it comes from there, when the reaction comes from here, that's where it's come from. What we need to do here is to sit bravely, primordially and discuss this problem. If we can't talk today... there's always the HDP on the stand, and they've said over and over again: "Look, friends, the solution and the negotiation process must be initiated." Look, it's happened before, it took two and a half years, and for two and a half years -- that's the best thing the government has ever done -- a person's nose didn't bleed. Let's either change the way of this path, or let's figure out the strategy, and we can talk again about a different strategy, but in terms of talking, these prejudices are very strong, and they have fears that some of them have lost their power, and unfortunately, because of their fear, he didn't have the courage to speak. And as he didn't show courage today, when I looked at the AKP, he was incredibly depressed, demoralized, motivated, desperate, as if this problem would no longer be solved, as if it were out of our control, as if we couldn't talk. It has to be talked about, it has to be talked about; the lives go without talking, the deaths increase without talking, and unless we're spoken of, we're all going to suffer the plague of these sufferings. Look, I'll tell you about Sur. Every minute there, they said about Tyre, about the fire, about the barricade, and so on. Look, on March 10th, the Minister of Interior said: "Operations are over. There are still ten months of curfews in Tyre, and for ten months there are houses being burned, houses being destroyed, destroyed, and paramilitary forces there, there are forces with Nusra ideology. There are paramilitary forces that we have witnessed with our eyes, that we have met one-on-one, that we have seen one-on-one violence. When we insisted on telling those forces here, we were told: "It's definitely not like this, there's a terrorist operation there, there's an operation like this. Try it, try it, see, last two days ago, an active, government-issued officer went and shot the Russian ambassador in the back. Is it possible that when you do this in Sur, when you do it in Cizre, when you do it in Silvan, when you do it in Şırnak, when you do it in Şırnak, when you insist on saying something like this? Is there really such a thing? Let's stop and think about it, and let's stop and discuss it. As he did not have the courage to say, he was almost condemned to his fear, he became a slave to his fear. Because it's really a dare to discuss the Kurdish problem, and it doesn't take a Kurdish to discuss the Kurdish problem. You don't have to be the Flame to discuss your flame problem. On the contrary, today the Kurdish problem became Turkey's problem, the Alevi problem became Sunni's problem, the woman's problem became the man's problem, the poor's problem became the rich's problem. We've come to a point where they're so differentized, polarized, and hostile, and they hate each other. In one night, 40 cities and district organisations of a legal political party, a party that received 6 million votes, were looted, burned, destroyed. Yeah, let's get a pass here once. What can we do? It was not said. We just don't accept it. It was said. But even if you look at it from a democratic, principled point of view, it's incredibly embarrassing. You may not like it, you can look at it from a different place, you can look at it from a different place -- isn't democracy a combination of differences -- but even though you've seen these differences, 40 cities and borough organizations have been burned down here in one night, a friend of ours has come out of here, except for an AKP MP, and they've come out of the ruling party, they're wrong, they can't do it, they can't do it, they can't do it, we won't do it. And that wasn't enough, they're so confident -- they're so comfortable with the cameras, they're so comfortable with the social media. Despite their names, IDs, addresses, no one has been taken into custody. But for some reason, that night, all of our HDP borough and borough organizations were again under political operation, and they were all arrested. Do you think this country can be ruled by such an irrational method of aggression, such an irrational policy? This country can't be ruled. Since this country is unmanageable, look, it has no international prestige. He looks at himself from a place that roars one day and begs for forgiveness two days later. Three days ago, he screws another hero, and three days later, he arrests the traitor. Why is it that you corrupt society so much, that you polarize everyone, that you go to such instability in yourself? I mean, can you run this country with it, stop killing like this? I'm talking 32 bombings, what's 32 bombings? 32 bombings means hundreds, thousands of lives are gone. I don't want this war here, here, there, with those people coming in one day, with their real smile on their face, with their heart's voice. Yes, I accept your differences. In mutual respect, come, let's talk, let's settle this, so that you don't get hurt, and we don't get hurt. The souls that go are partners. We could have said, "Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's Look, thousands of people have died because we didn't say so. If we don't say it today, if we can't say it in a place where the crisis is so deep and the chaos is deep... believe me, a year ago when I was talking about Cizre here, the people will burn there, the children will die. When I say it, they all attacked me at this table, and those people were burned to death. And today, if we're going to do the same thing, the same attitude, the same response, or if we're going to turn our backs on our fears, and we're going to turn our backs on it, and we're going to say it's not our job. Believe me, if we can say it's not our job, no one's going to be responsible for this, but I want to remind you again that the power that governs this country, who has the responsibility in this country, is going to be 100 percent responsible. I repeat, let's reboot the process of solutions and negotiations while the road is near. It's Mr. Ocalan. Let it begin again. Let's risk everything, as long as we stop this blood. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0247par0459	Thank you, Mr. Heroalp. That concludes the conversation for the group.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0248par0461	Mr. President, for the record, I don't want to talk about bullying, but...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0247par0462	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0248par0463	There was a word that they often mentioned in both the speaker and the speakers before him, which we specifically stated: as long as they say, we will keep saying it, whoever is on the stand, whatever party is on the stand. War is between two legitimate states. If we live in our country today, we say it over and over, and we've heard it many times from the HDP, but it's really absurd for a Republican People's Party MP to mention the word "war" from here. Turkey has a fact, the fight against terrorism. Turkey does not have a Kurdish problem, we specifically say. This Parliament represents the 79 million here. Our nation, six million of our citizens who voted there... never in this regard, this is the wealth of democracy that they're here... but the fact that they're here... that every time we talk about PKK, other terrorist organizations... it's really absurd to be spoken for them, to vote for them, and to be truly sorry for our 79-80 million nations.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0247par0464	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz. Mr. Eütöz, only you, a member of the People's Party of the Republic. You said so in your speech.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0248par0466	And the speaker just now...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0247par0467	The speaker just now is not from the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0248par0468	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the previous orator and the previous orator both used the declaration of war in their speech; we refuse.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0247par0469	All right, then, understood, yes, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0249par0470	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0247par0471	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0249par0472	Mr. President, there's no need to give too many examples. He claimed we were speaking on behalf of the PKK. It's an open taunt. Now, when the members of the group's deputy leaders of political power come out, every thought -- in a nail -- is accused of terrorism, we've said that before. Not just our party, who didn't think as they did, but they accused very different social opposition groups of terrorism. It's an open taunt. We want to speak according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0247par0473	All right, here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0249par0474	He'll speak for our Sibel Yigitalp Group.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0247par0475	Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0250par0478	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm saying this very quickly now. We are waging a war of absence. The government, who says, "I declare a cessation." The President, who says, "We will destroy and destroy and destroy every day, every second of the day, and we will do this. We will go to our city buildings, our county buildings, and we will come to our district buildings, and we will not be there." And so on. So on and so forth. I'm saying, why is the curfew still in effect since March 9th, when the conflict ended in Diyarbakir? Can you do that in another town? Or what's the explanation for the arrest of thousands of people? Why are thousands of members of a party that received 6 million votes arrested, city administration, co-chairs, county organisations? Why are those who want peace being arrested? Why are those who talk about women's equality being arrested? Why are 12 MPs under arrest? I'll tell you why they're being arrested, because we think differently, because we have differences, and because differences are caused by your insufferability. We can be arrested here, maybe today, maybe tonight, maybe a day later, maybe not, but we'll never, never betray the votes we get, we'll continue to be the voices of thousands of people. I will continue to be the voice of the parents of the mothers of those children, of the fathers of the children who lost their lives in Istanbul. Why would I be? I'll be there so other kids don't lose their lives. It's just that if it had been solved here today by criminalizing, feeding, enriching the conflict, by setting up heroes, one person wouldn't have lost their lives. There's a saying, you know, that you talk very freely about things you don't know about. That's the problem here. The problems you don't experience are very easy to talk about. We may be able to speak so bravely because we have these experiences, and we know that death is very painful, war is evil, destruction.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0251par0482	Mr. Heroalp, thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0252par0484	For the same reason, we want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0251par0485	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0252par0487	Thank you. I'm glad Mr. Encesous came to our opinion, to our understanding of this matter. Because the Republican People's Party is a party that thinks that states can only fight states and declare war. If you look at the entire text of our MP in İzmir, Tacettin Bayir, he talks about a war against the interests of the Turkish nation's imperialism; not with the PKK, not with DAEŞ, not with ISIS. I've told you before: governments fight states. States fight terrorist organizations; they get on top of them, they get rid of them, they do whatever they do. However, I'm also sorry that Mr. Tüyöz was in opposition to the President. Now, on the previous Tuesday, Mr. President declared mobilisation, referring to Article 104 of Constitution. When you look at the definition of mobilization, or when you read it, it describes all the power and resources of the state and the country as being offered to the service of war. So it is Mr. President who declared a state of war with the PKK, and it is not true. The PKK is a terrorist organisation stemming from the Kurdish problem, a low terrorist organisation, which the state fights effectively. And in this matter, from the House, this Parliament has given power, power, everything it wants. But that's when we told him that if he sat down with someone... the government would sit at the table with the government. The state that sits at the table with the terrorist organization -- we don't think it's legitimate, but it's legitimate. That's what AKP governments have been doing for six years. Now, you fight the person you sit at the table with. And when you sit at the table, you see him as a state, and when he does, you just keep seeing him as a state. So this complicated, weak, freakish situation that the country is coming from is the work of the AKP government. You can brag about your work. But your approach is contrary to the President's approach. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0253par0492	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0254par0493	Mr. President, put it on the record. That's not possible. So we're going to take out that speech text, obviously the battle statements, and we're denying them.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0252par0494	Yes, there is a war on imperialism.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0255par0495	There's Syria.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0254par0496	The national mobilization, yes, has infiltrated not only one PKK (PKK), but the traitor within us, all the institutions of the state while fighting terrorism today...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0252par0497	Placed...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0254par0498	...a terrorist organization such as Özakça, a very dangerous terrorist organization such as the other DHKP-C, will, of course, declare mobilisation during this period when we're fighting their cannon. But the talks just went into the transcripts. There's no way to cover it up with these conversations or anything.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0256par0499	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0252par0500	Mr. President, I'm just trying to get him to report...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0256par0501	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0252par0502	It has not infiltrated the state; it has been placed in the state.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0256par0505	Ladies and gentlemen, we extend our condolences to the Amedspor football player who died in a car accident and to Amedspora and his fans. Now, on behalf of him, Mr. Hasan Sert, the Istanbul MP, will speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Hard.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0257par0512	Mr. President and valued deputies, I have taken a pledge on the second chapter of the Sunei Property Law Bill, which consists of Articles 201 and 7 chapters 341 rows. I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly. I want to thank my Republican People's Party MP friends for their valuable contributions during the draft of the law. The second part of the Test Property Law Bill, which is prepared after a busy shift, will contribute to the development and development of our country's business environment, is intended to preserve the name of the geographical sign and traditional product. During the preparation of the law, the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey, the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges, TESK, MUSIAD, TUSIAD, the Association for the Protection of Idea Property Rights, Researching Medicine Corporations, Turkey's Drug Industry Association, the Union of Employers of Medicine Industries, Turkey's Exporters Assembly, the Association of YaSED, Patents and Marka Regents, the Industrial Designers Occupational Association, and other relevant NGOs, we've tried to get reviews of the law on this. Not only that, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, the Turkish Patent Institute, the Ministry of Competition, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economics, Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Medicine and Medicine, the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism and Interior. What did we gain by the Bill of Test Property, what did we try to do, and what setbacks did we try to correct? Allowing unusable registration brands and new entrepreneurs to be allowed to be present on the market, providing access to the registration of new brands, shortening the brand registration process, encouraging the solution of conflict with the brands by intermediary, promoting the removal of non-ustainable brands by the institute, allowing them to be available by the owners' will, allowing them to be able to be able to be present together in the market, improving the registration of geographical marker applications in less time, reducing the cost of registering of traditional products, protecting traditional product names, and activating the use of the traditional products, and improving the use of the use of the right-owner's brands name, and improving the capacity of the traditional product, and increasing the capacity of the administration of the new administration, and increasing its in order to improve for you to be able to be processed, and more efficient in order to improve the capacity of the new jobs, and to improve the capacity of the new jobs. In particular, the design of professors in the right-of-occupancy universities, facilitating patent registration, improving the quality of patents is also among the goals. Again, geographical signs are one of the rights of testing to contribute to the country's economy, which guarantees, on this occasion, the origin and quality of products that contribute to promoting regions and countries by protecting cultural values. The geographical marker is a study designed to preserve the quality, source, and value of the product. The healthy functioning of this work depends on the control of the marked product and then the effective introduction of the product. As of the end of 2016, the Turkish Patent Institute has a total of 195 geographical markers, 192 of which belong to our country. Honourable lawmakers have been provided with this law in harmony with the European Union's Marka Charter, the World Idea Property Agency, the German Brand Law, the Turkish Penal Code and the Penal Code. On this occasion, especially Kayseri, Istanbul, and Al-Bab welcome our martyrs, while Russian Ambassador Andrei Karlov sends his condolences to the family and the Russian people, wishing our law good for our country, for our nation.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0258par0521	Thank you, Mr. Hard. The second and final speaker on behalf of him will be Nüğde MP Omar Fethi Gürer. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0259par0525	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are a bill supported by the Constitutional Property Act and the Republican People's Party. This bill, aimed at boosting international contracts and harmonisation of European Union legislation and the transition to a more qualified and effective modern testing property system, is a continuation of the process, which began with the Customs Union Agreement in 1994. Added to that, the geographical sign and the protection of the traditional product's name. Of course, what I'm saying here are three subjects: We call it European Union integration, we call it Customs Union, and we call it traditional product. Unfortunately, in recent times, the Justice and Development Party has even moved the Customs Union to its point. As a traditional product, it is no longer known for its traditional products in Niğde, my area. When we're almost at the end of something, we make legal arrangements. In this context, different from yesterday, the bill turns into law, and after a while, we take them back and we add them to it, but for today, does the Turkish Grand National Assembly need to discuss such a bill? The citizens outside the House are asking us about it. There's terror going on in the country, bombs exploding, assassinations, suffering over and over again. By the way, our number of martyrs reached 25. I have not witnessed an assessment of a meeting of the Turkish Grand National Assembly on such matters. The group's deputy leaders are coming, and they want us to hold a hearing on terrorism, and they say that the place where political parties can reach a compromise is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and that should be put to work. But unfortunately, as a one-year congressman, I've never seen the issue of terrorism being discussed in this parliament, except in conversation. But our country is also dealing with problems outside of terror. The unemployment has taken its head, corruption has increased, poverty has increased, and the failed situation with the PISA has brought our country's education problem to its attention. Unregistered teachers, teachers looking for improvement in their rights, pensioners, those who can't get their rights with 4/C/C, collective contracting, farmers who can't sell their product in agriculture, tradesmen who can't sell their products, raises after each product, health problems, women's murders, media silenced media, untrusted justice, youth left at university gates, and a country that keeps changing everything. In this regard, it is a country that is heading towards regime change with a new draft constitution currently discussed in the Constitutional Commission. Unfortunately, our country doesn't deserve this. I think our coven has a lot to produce at the point where our brotherhood, our unity, our resurrection, our order will improve. Unfortunately, the amplification, the dissolution, the respect for each other in society, and the assessment of each other, even to a negative point. The Republican People's Party's view of terrorism is clear, it curses all kinds of terrorism, it believes it's a crime of humanity because the Republican People's Party is a party that advocates social justice, that everyone should have a vaccine, a job. The Republican People's Party can't be expected to have anything to do with terrorism, and the Republican People's Party is a party that is the founder of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, which advocates the unity of the country, the utilities, and otherwise has no thought. Unfortunately, the fact that even the regime, beyond the fact that our country's problems have been overcome, has become debatable, makes the problem of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey necessary to think and behave rationally, in every detail. If we don't understand each other; if we don't listen to what each other says; if we, I know logic goes, it's not good for this country to go. We're all in pain, we're all in pain, we're all in blood. Sadly, parents' tears grow every day. The way to overcome these problems is that Turkey's Grand National Assembly immediately brings to the agenda the issues that are the country's real problem, including terrorism and unemployment and poverty. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0260par0532	Thank you. Mr. Division, did you have something to say?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0261par0534	There's a demand for words according to 60.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0260par0535	Here you go, Mr. Division, just a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0262par0538	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, it has been decided that there will be no industrial establishment within 3,000 metres of the Law and olive groves on the Insemination of Olives and Savages, number 3573, released in 1939. As in many parts of our country, the Haji Sabancı is suffering from this law on the development of the Organised Industrial Zone. One of Turkey's largest organised industrial regions is the Adana Organised Industrial Region, which currently has 345 companies in 1,590 hectares and over 30,000 employees, with 365 hectares of expansion. The olive grove within this expansion area is an obstacle to new investments, causing significant losses in the city and country's economy. It is important for the country's economy to allow industrial investments of its regions through enlargement to be moved elsewhere to create new jobs and production areas in Adana, where the unemployment record has been broken, and in all organised industrial areas in Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0263par0541	Thank you, Mr. Division.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0264par0542	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement to our deputy.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0263par0543	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0264par0545	Mr. President, this is our precious law of olivery of 1939, correct, but the arrangement for olive groves was made in 1993 or 1994, so it wasn't made in 1939. At the moment, our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology has a study of both protecting our olive fields and providing for their needs at this point. I hope all our parties agree on this, and it'll be a good arrangement. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0263par0547	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. In Article 29 there is a motion.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0265par0554	Here we go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0263par0555	The motion has been removed from operation. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There is one motion in Article 30.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0266par0558	Here we go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0263par0559	The motion has been drawn. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0266par0561	We're pulling all our motions on chapter two, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0267par0562	The motions in chapter two are all withdrawn.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0263par0563	It's all taken. I submit Article 31 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 32 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 33 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 34 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 35 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 37th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 38 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 39 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 40th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "In the same time period, the fee for the appeal must be paid and given to the Institute. Otherwise, there was no objection. There is no charge for appeals made by public institutions or institutions of the public institution." We offer and supply to change it into form. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Ruhi Ersoy Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0268par0583	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0269par0584	Motive...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0263par0585	I'm reading the reason: It would also be appropriate to not charge public institutional occupational institutions in the study of objections and objections to the provision of parallels between Article 36 of the Article (1) (b) of the Article on the application. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 41st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 42nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 43 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 44 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 45th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 46th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 47th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 48th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 49, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the 341 rows of the Law shall be removed from the text, which is part of the 49th Article (3). Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Ahrazoğlu Muharrem Varlı Mehmet Günal Mustafa Mit of Deniz Depboy Does the commission agree with the motion? We're giving credit, Mr. President. Government? We agree, sir, we agree. I'm reading the reason: The joke has been changed in a manner stated to reduce the frequency of the presentation of the audit report, which is envisioned to be submitted every two years for geographical signs and traditional product names, so that the control can be activated. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 49th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 50th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 51st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 52nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 53 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 54 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. We now begin the talks of section three. The third chapter covers Articles 55 to 84. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı will speak on the third part. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0270par0625	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group over the third chapter of the 341th Amendment bill in session. On this occasion, I salute you all. I'd like to start with a current topic. Applying for interest-free loans from KOSGEB (KoSGEB) to be submitted to 15,000 non-payable three-year-period non-payment, under interest support, began on Monday (December 19th) and will end today (December 21st) at twenty-four. SMEs who want to take advantage of the loan must first be registered in the COSGEB database, and the registered SMEs must update their data in the database. At the same time, tens of thousands of recordings and upgrades and a limited deadline for the application for credit have been created, and long queues have been piled up in front of and in front of the units and the application centers to provide documents. Many of our citizens are unable to make their applications. There is a strong demand for interest-free loans to be provided to 15,000 KOBI. In order for sufficient applications to be made in the face of this intensity and to benefit the true needy, the deadline must be extended and the number of tradesmen to be given without interest must be increased. Our Minister of Science, Industry and Technology has announced that 15,000 SMEs who have the right to apply for interest-free loans will be paid by the end of 2016, a similar application will be made in 2017, and those who fail to obtain the right to benefit from it will not be upset. We've also met face-to-face with Mr. Secretary, a positive statement. However, as the National Movement Party, we would like to implement 2017 right away at the beginning of the year and to increase the number of SMEs that will benefit as much as possible, and we hope that this issue will be considered. Also, there must be tradesmen and SMEs who suffer from lack of business capital to benefit from interest-free loans. However, even though he paid the debt late, the banks' blacklisted trades and SMEs are not given interest-free loans from KOSGEB. Unfortunately, what happens in this situation does not benefit from the practice brought to the so-called underprivileged shopkeepers and SMEs. To achieve the goal of the interest-free loan, the decision can be made healthier, given not only by looking at the present day of the trades and the COBIs, but by looking at the past years as a whole. In this framework, a realistic and practical record pardon for those who have paid off their debts must be removed and implemented effectively. Again, I have noted earlier that there are some who have failed to apply for a significant number of applications regarding Law 6736, which envisions the construction of tax and bonus debts, and who have not been able to apply for the first installment. An arrangement is in the best interest of both the finance and the citizen. I hope the arrangements will be made, and the demands will be taken into consideration. The COBIs are the engine of our country's economy with numbers and the value of employment, production and addition they provide. According to TÜİK data, there are 2 million 695,131 initiatives on the SME scale in our country, and 99.8 per cent of total businesses. Because of economic difficulties, our COBIs and trades and occupations have faced serious problems. There's been a major recession in the markets lately. Serious cash shortages and collection shortages. Unrequited checks, protested bonds and troubled loans show high increases. In order to boost the competitiveness of SMEs and tradesmen, the market's resuscitation must be announced in a broad, comprehensive programme, allowing the SMEs and the tradesman to access the loan under the proper conditions so that it can increase its stall and business. SMEs and tradesmen should be reduced in taxes and bonus rates, special tariffs should be provided in electricity, water and natural gas. COBIs should be supported to produce high quality goods and services, invested in RD and encouraged to employ researchers, branding, institutionalization, and development of innovative business models. THE manpower capacity of the SME must be increased at every level, the training-industrial cooperation policies of qualified manpower should be supported, the support of apprentices and phalanx should be implemented. Dear lawmakers, the bill we're interviewing aims to contribute to the protection of rights related to brand, geographical sign, design, patent, useful model and traditional product names and to the implementation of technological, economic and social progress. Today, one of the main elements of a country's economy's competitiveness in international markets is no doubt a well-functioning testing property system. Today, when the race between nations and civilizations continues at its full speed, science is needed, more than ever, for reliable guidance of science. A society's head is high and prosperous, depending on its considerable power in science and technology. Technology is the transfer of scientific knowledge into the field of practice. Today, society's superioritys are measured by levels of science and technology. Without science, scientific mentality, and sufficient information production, there is no progress in technology and practice. Without science being produced, without sufficient knowledge, it's not even possible to maintain our current position and position, let alone continue the dizzying political, social, cultural, economic race between nations through the import of technology. Our ability to take advantage of inter-country competition depends on the importance needed for RD studies, and information and technology depend on the ability to export high-intensity products. This will only be possible with structural changes, human capital investments and a predictable economic field, as well as a good economic road map. Turkey's economy has never been able to get into the intensive production structure of RD. In 2002, our RD spending, which was 0.53 per cent of the illegal domestic product, increased to 1.06 per cent in 2015. At 2.03 per cent, the European Union average was lower than half. The G.R.E. expenditures are aimed at 1.8 per cent for 2018; 3 per cent for 2023, but given the performance of past years, hope for next year is unrealistic. Because it doesn't seem realistic that in the past 13 years of the AKP, it has only increased 0.53 points in three years, and in eight years, it has increased by 0.74. R&amp;gt; R&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt; R&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt; R&amp;gt;&amp;gt; R&amp;&amp;gt; The A significant achievement in the field of RD depends on the co-direction of RD investment, foreign trade and industrial policies. For RD, a high level of technology is needed for a high, productive economy and industrial base. The engine power of growth across the world is the capacity for exports based on the manufacturing industry of economies. The share of high-tech products in industrial production and exports has reached double digits in many countries, while Turkey has declined to increase. Our country's share in industrial production of high-tech products, 5.7% in 2003, declined by 4.2 per cent in 2015. Again, the share of high-tech products, which were 6.2% in 2002, was reduced to 3.9 per cent in exports in 2015. The share of high-tech products in exports is 19.4 per cent in the European Union. If you look at countries that can maintain high growth rates in a sari way over the years, these countries produce high quality products and exports based on these products. In order for our country to take this kind of production and export structure, it has to make an important breakthrough in the field of RD, innovation and technology. It is impossible to achieve high growth goals with a production structure that is not strong in innovation and technology infrastructure and is not based on a jump in the manufacturing industry. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0271par0640	Thank you, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0272par0641	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0271par0642	Master, you're in the system, please.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0272par0645	Yes, Mr. President. We just received a breaking news report from the agencies, and the Turkish Armed Forces have made a statement. As part of Operation Firat Shield, we have 10 soldiers who have been killed in El Bab. We have 18 soldiers who have been seriously injured. I pray for the mercy of all our martyrs, the glory of their position, and for the healing, and for the good of the wounded. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. I don't know if there's any explanation from the government, but I'd like to express our condolences. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0273par0648	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0274par0650	I was going to take the same promise for the same reason, but I'm going to take the stand anyway, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0273par0651	Already?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0274par0652	It's my turn to talk anyway.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0273par0653	Okay, fine. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0275par0656	Mr. President, when the General Assembly began this morning, I told you we had four martyrs, we had 10 wounded; we were hurt, we were sad, we wanted information from the government. With news now, we don't even know if we've had six more martyrs on top of our four additional martyrs, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0276par0657	No, apart.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0275par0658	Separate, apparently, a separate attack. So today, we have 14 martyrs in the Fırat Shield. And I told you in the morning, we're all willing to be martyrs for this country, but I think it's hard for Parliament to shed the blood of our children, I mean, all the members of parliament to feel sorry for the situation, but if the sovereignty is the point of the people's will, if it is, Mr. President, if it is not the knowledge of the people's will, it is unacceptable. I'm asking you very much, so please, the government needs to inform both Congress and the public, and that can't happen. I mean, someone's making decisions, there's a thesis from this House, our soldiers are dying, no one knows what's going on; it's not true. I request and request that the House be informed.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit03spe0277par0663	I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0277par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 341. The commission is in place. The government is in place. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Aytug Atcı will speak on the third chapter. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0278par0011	Mr. President, dear friends, every day we offer our mercy and condolences for the new martyrs. Again, we don't even know how many martyrs we just lost in El Bab. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not only a place to beg for mercy, it is a place to create solutions. If there's no solution, the government has no right to sit in that chair for a minute, just a minute. We couldn't protect our children. Of course we wish you mercy. I apologize to those parents for not being able to protect our children. Dear friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group on the third part of the Sunei Property Act. While Turkey is a pool of blood, I salute lawmakers who have not pursued a single man's regime while the nation is breaking out of unemployment, poverty. Dear friends, in chapter three, we're organizing the scope of the intellectual and testing property rights, its property, its property, and its protection. The final items of the third section regulate the patent rights. Dear friends, this Turkish National Assembly building we're in is also a design and patented. The building is design, but I'm going to talk about the idea, mainly. This idea is designed by Great Leader Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. This design is a grand design in the path of freedom and civilization, which was built with the lives, possessions, and blood of the people under the leadership of Ataturk and his comrades. And all were servants of the king, that was, until the design of the king came to pass. The king ruled His servants as He pleased. The only person who manages the country by lending it money has entered and lost in various wars, hoping that I will be saved. I don't know if it reminds you of today, but listen carefully. He, one man, the king, on his own defeat, disbanded his army to save himself over his decisions and defeats and signed the country's occupation treaty and fled. Its own self-management design, which began with resistance against the occupation, was created by the establishment of the National Assembly. The people took power from one person and began to rule themselves. Those who are subject to one person are now equal citizens, so the people have taken their sovereignty unconditionally. The design led by Ataturk and his comrades is the design of the secular, democratic Republic of Turkey. This design was registered in 1923 with Lausanne, and on October 29, 1923, the sentence was declared public with the patent of the Republic of Turkey. This patent belongs to our people. Now here at the General Assembly, in the grand hall, we're trying to secure ideas and test rights, patents. At the same time, in another room of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, some MPs are working hard in the effort of Turkey's Grand National Assembly to give one person the rights and powers of the design, the patent itself. Now, let me take you to the 71st article of the bill. What does the 71st article of this chapter regulate? He's organizing the bill. We all did it together. What happens if the bill is sanctioned? And what is done in the other room? It's the people's attempt to gain sovereignty, nothing more. Everyone has the obligation to come to their senses and secure this nation's design and patent in that hall, just like we did in that hall today. But why is it that, after nearly a hundred years, the nation's sovereignty is seized and given to one person? What's the point of that? His goal is to hide why bombs that explode every day can't be avoided. To help the poor people forget how their children can't be stopped from being martyrs. Fifteen years of single-party management, to make me forget how the dollar popped out three floors. Why were poor village children imprisoned in the parish homes, to make them forget it? To quell the rebellion of the mothers whose children were abused and raped. To hide why our 15-year-old children in the education system of 15-year-olds were 50 ▪ in the world to read their own language and understand their own language. To make us forget why we're stuck in the Syrian swamp. In the other room, people are trying to get a warrant, never for a stable administration. No one's working for a stable government because, as you call it, there's already an actual presidential system in this country. That's what you say, isn't it? That's what the National Movement Party says, the AKP says: there's the current presidential system, and we're trying to make this a law, and we're trying to make it official. You have to tell me what you're hoping for from this presidential system. You go out and say: "We don't want a regime change, it's not a regime change." It's a regime change, like honey. Open the Turkish Language Foundation dictionary and see what it means. The regime is the governing form of a country. It says, "Turkish Language Foundation" is the governing form of a country. And you're changing that, and you're making a regime change. For God's sake, it's not right to reduce this to one person, not one person. For God's sake, if the man you want is not sitting in this chair, do you realize who you're giving these powers to? If the man you want is sitting in that chair, that's fine. Well, this guy's not immortal, and I don't know who's gonna sit in that chair when it comes to rights. There will be no coalition. You say you're not telling the truth, you're in a coalition today. When the coalition's done, at least everyone sits at the table with dignity, dignity, gets the size of the people, puts their weight on the government as much as they get a percentage of the votes, but now we don't know what they've done, what they've done, what they've done, what they've done, what they've done. There's a coalition, but no one knows their terms. So, this road is powered by patents. No one's supposed to get into this. You're making a constitutional amendment. Show me a country in the world, a democratic country so that the constitution can be changed during the state of emergency. We're not fighting on equal terms. You have all the TVs, and you forbid us to go out on the street. There's the State of Emergency, you're rounding up our kids. There's the State of Emergency, you're gassing us. What are you guys hiding behind? If you are brave, lift up the State of Emergency, and let us fight together. Look, you say national will, national will, you don't hear the sound of your base. The AKP's voter says: "I don't want the presidency." Most say so. Yes, I love my party, I vote, I vote, I vote, I vote, but the presidential system is not appropriate. The voter of the National Movement Party says the same thing: I love my president, it's okay, I love my party, but I'm not going to give it. The HDP voter says: "I am not going to make you president anyway. " We say: "We will not leave the path of Ataturk. You also hear that this is not the priority of our people in any way.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0279par0024	Then it's okay.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0278par0025	You know the public doesn't want that.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0279par0026	You don't even have to talk, our people will do what they have to do.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0278par0027	Isn't it a sin to come here and keep an agenda for just one man, knowing what the public doesn't want? Do you think the money you're taking will be lawful? No, you are the representatives of the people here. The people sent us all here to speak for themselves, and they said, "If you get in trouble, you can come to me." Now, you're trying to get it out of the public in various ways, but the public won't give it to you. First of all, we're gonna cut this off here. But it didn't happen, and it didn't happen that the people of Nacip are not going to give you this presidential system, this disgrace in any way. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0280par0030	On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mr Ahmet Yıldırım will speak. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0281par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at this late hour of the evening, I'd like to start by bowing to all of you. I sincerely regret that the number of soldiers who lost their lives in Syria today has risen to 14. I pray for God's mercy, my condolences to their families and to the wounded. But if we can show a little empathy, aside from the fact that one of the soldiers who lost their lives today is our child, our brother, our father, or a close relative, can we imagine what kind of anxiety, anxiety, a little empathy, and the fact that we were only there as soldiers in the operation called the Storm Shield? Yes, we'll forget tomorrow how the fever fell on the family of these 14 young soldiers, his house, his stove, but that family will never forget and suffer an irreparable wound. It's easy for us. We'll apologize here, we'll seek immediate healing for the wounded, and then we'll pass. And how much do we feel about the tiny children of those soldiers, the mothers, their fathers, their brothers, their wives, who have grown up to be able to brush the hair of those soldiers? This is my criticism of three other parties outside of our group in Parliament, the only political party in parliament that hasn't voted for this thesis. Because, as much as we regret this incident today, we've come to this conclusion by predicting this and so forth on the day of the debate -- when the conjecture was discussed -- when we didn't vote. Now, dear friends, look, the number of people who have died in Syria since August 24th has come to 40. And two of our soldiers, who no one has mentioned, who have forgotten, who are trying to make them forget, are in the hands of DAESH. We haven't had any information about this in two weeks, and unfortunately we don't know if it's two or more. We don't know how they are now or how the Ministry of National Defence in Turkey, the Chief of Staff, is making an effort to get them back safely, to get them back. Now, my fellow lawmakers, look, let's just say, what if we drop and take over El Bab? What's it gonna be? We're not facing the position of reclaiming an occupied land, not our territory, but even if we remove Al-bab-a-pad as a political party who didn't vote for it, I'll tell you what's going to happen in a week's time: the regime and Russia, which we're trying to develop hot relations with these days, and Russia, come on, you're done; get out of here. Do you think it will stay in Turkey? Do you think the Turkish soldier will stay there? You'll see, even if we take Bab, we'll be grateful for the life of the regime and Russia, and we'll be grateful for the life of a city that's been occupied by terrorists, without losing any soldiers, without operating, without using weapons, without killing, without giving up any casualties, and we'll see that the soldiers of a country that's been occupied by terrorists will come and give their lives, and we'll see, we'll see, we'll see, we hope, that the number stays here, we hope, but I don't know what it'll get to the ground, but I know this one thing, even if the security forces from DAISTish will surrender it to the owners of the land and the sovereign state that goes from Turkey. Because we're in Syria with a foreign policy that we can't see three days from now, which we can't account for, and we're dealing with one-day, one-day, one-day, one-day, one-day statements, and a conflicting, conflicting statement by government officials. Tomorrow, if we come across an explanation that will testify to what was said today, we now have a Syrian policy that the country is not surprised by. Well, the fate of the soldiers at the Fırat Shield is full of unknowns, and human life is identified by the subtitle under the television channels in Turkey. The subtitle reads: "The last minute..." "The subtitle goes through: "This many soldiers have lost their lives." "The subtitle goes through: "This much is so badly wounded." So, what's the result? What are we trying to do, what's the point? We think that because we think of all of this, and that this country should be in a position and attitude, in a policy that will ensure its own border security by giving up its right to sovereignty over its territory to the full extent. What if it's not? Look, I'll tell you again, do we think we're going to walk from El Bab to Rakka? You think they're gonna feed us that? I'm telling you in quotes, he's got us the most demanding, the most complicated, the most precise jobs, and our soldier's doing something there. When Russia tells you to leave tomorrow, I'll shoot you in the air if you don't. When you say -- in the first attack, when three of Turkey's soldiers died a month ago, all the international news agencies passed by, which the Russians had shot down -- what will you do when you say, "Get out?" What are you going to do? No, we're on our own land and we're going to protect it. Are we going to say that? We're stuck in a meaningless foreign policy like this, and the whole world defines this syndrome as "Vietnam syndrome." A person, a country, a country's armed forces, operating in a land without their right to rule, and facing a blocked policy there, is described in all diplomatic literature as the syndrome of Vietnam, which is called the Vietnam syndrome. From the bottom of my heart and heart, I sincerely hope that tonight's losses will be the last. In order to prevent any further losses, we think that Parliament and the political power in the first place should do whatever it can; we think that it should immediately withdraw from that land, to ensure its own border security, to prevent it from taking power from its thesis. They're not gonna give us a chance to act like we want to out there. We are able to advance to the extent that the regime and Russia allow in the land west of Fırat. There's no way we're going anywhere they won't let us go. We're going to try to fight them and fight them, where they say, "Stop." And then we're going to face an indiscriminate Vietnam syndrome, and we're going to give the people of this country a problem that our minds can't imagine, and we're going to give the people of this country the trouble and the trouble that our minds can't imagine. Please, let alone our political concerns, our demands, the right to live in the right of the soldiers there, the right of the family of those people to reach their own children, their mothers, their fathers, we think that Turkey should end this operation as soon as possible. This thesis was meaningless from the beginning, and it's completely out of order from now on. I think we don't even have the luxury of dying on these anymore. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0282par0043	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Mehmet Erdogan will speak on behalf of Gaziantep MP.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0283par0046	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I salute you all with respect and conversation. I have made a promise on the Bill of Test Property. Of course, this law, as you all know, has been brought up in the 23rd term, the 24th term, even the 26th period, in February of this period. It was discussed by the Commission for Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology. Of course, we passed that law there with our members of the Commission in a very large agreement. Today, that agreement is reflected in Parliament. This law is very important because once a product's identity is measured by its patent, brand, design. It doesn't even look like there's any hard evidence of any of this to date. With a decree issued in 1995, we've brought it to this day and it's always been tough. We're discussing a very important law for him. Of course, I'd like to thank all my group friends who have made it easier for this law to pass. With this law, even in many cases in exports and foreign policy in Turkey... you know, trade brings some closeness, strengthens friendships. I think it's going to be about selling more goods with many countries, more business relations. We're going to have more trade volumes with Russia in the 50 percent, and in many countries around the world, especially in Gulf countries -- you know -- there's a trade volume, we have to go there. I'm not saying it politically, so don't get it wrong. For example, the Shanghai area has $15 trillion in trade volumes, so we need to get in there. We have entered Africa, and in order to increase them, we need the identity of our property. Of course, I'd like to thank the representatives of all groups here. We really have a lot in common. 14 martyrs, of course, 14 of our martyrs... today in the El Bab district, we lost 14 brothers and sisters. Before we go too far...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0284par0050	Why did we give it to him?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0283par0051	Here, I'll tell you why, if you'll excuse me, Kazim. We gave those 45 martyrs the same way we gave them in Istanbul, the same reason we gave them to them.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0285par0052	It's not the same, come on!
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0283par0053	It's all the same, if we say this... look, I'm incomplete, I'm short on time, let me finish. We gave him 14 martyrs for the same reason we gave them to Kayseri. There was a wedding in Gaziantep. The organization, called DAİŞ, detonated the bomb, killed 56 innocent children, and the decision of this Syrian issue and the decision of El Bab was made that day. We don't have eyes on anyone's land here. So let's not assume that Turkey had entered Syria for the land for six years. But when did we get in? The organisations have a total war against Turkey. DHKP-C whatever it is, the PKK does the same, DAİŞ does the same. How quickly we forget the 15th of July, my friends. They put together an invasion plan, and we didn't see the map published by the CIA's subsidiary, Stratfor, who set up this invasion plan? Haven't we looked at it? They're building a city state in Istanbul, which is open on the map, a metropolitan state. The Aegean is occupied. Two states in the east and southeast, and, again, a Turkey compressed to the Inner Anatolia. Now, as I'm seeing these...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0286par0056	Would it have happened if we hadn't interfered with Assad?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0283par0057	And as for Assad, you put Assad in your tongue...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0286par0058	Would it have happened if we hadn't interfered?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0283par0059	We've always defended them in zero tolerances with Assad, and with Iran, and with our neighbors, we've had good relations. When did we confront Assad? The day he bombed his people, we confronted him the day he threw the sarin gas. We've always been on the side of peace in our region, in our geography, we've always been on the side of brotherhood. But let us not remain silent while the man invades the country on July 15th, and what happened to all the organizations today is all of a sudden. Why don't you question that?
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0286par0060	We're questioning him, we're not getting any answers.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0283par0061	You'll have your answer in a little while. Now, look, what organization is silent? They're all holding guns, each bombing in a slaughter. Look, what we said on this stand eight months ago, ten months ago, two years ago, it's all happening today. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Global forces are doing what they want. So, friends, let's empathize with each other instead of talking to each other, and we'll get through all this by giving them away. Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0287par0067	We're doing it, we can't explain it, look! We do, and we can't tell.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0288par0068	On behalf of the person, Mr. Atila Sertel, the Izmir MP, will speak for him second and last. Here you go, Mr. Sertel.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0289par0071	Mr. President, my dear paralegal friends: Of course, we're having a very sad time. I ask God's mercy to our 14 soldiers, to our police officers who died in the past, to our soldiers. But, you know, it's not the uniform that dies, it's the uniform that's buried, it's the people, and they're all mama's boy. We don't just send the martyrs away under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey or by giving them the blessing of our prayers under wreaths in the mosque courtyards where we meet; we take them away from their parents, though they have reached a martyr's rank at a very young and very unfair time. It hurts. I'm not just going to see the martyrs off, friends. I'm going to the homes of the families of the martyrs who were killed 15 years ago. I know the families who each took a room, decorated it with pictures of their children, and put fresh flowers next to their photographs on the anniversary of each death. It's the family that's going through that pain. If we had literally experienced that pain and felt it, we would have set Turkey's Parliament on an active mission and an active structure to make sure that our children don't die. As long as we don't do this, we'll only shed tears. In Turkey, people don't smile anymore. People in Turkey are unhappy. Get out in the street, look. Walk the streets of Ankara. Izmir, Çankırı, Artvin, Van, Hakkari, Şırnak, no matter what region it is in, people no longer laugh and think of the future as black and dark; in Turkey they think of life as bread, think of it as electricity, think of it as water money, and really, with great economic difficulties, they also feel their concern for the future. My dear friends, five days ago I was in Silivri Prison. I went to the prison for six years, five and a half years, but I promised I'd never go back, and I went to the very respectable employees of the Republic newspaper and the people who were arrested there, and we sat down and talked. Let me give you a name, Akin Atalay, President of the Republic Foundation. The other day, I'm going to tell you the paper that came in at the time of that visit: the response to your arrest, the letter of appeal, is to focus on the suspicion of escape. However, Akin Atalay is a journalist from Berlin who came to İstanbul on his own foot, who was taken into custody at Ataturk Airport, and who said, "I may be arrested, but I will return to my home." I saw our other fellow journalists there waiting for the indictment to be filed. For example, Murat, who was said to have been on trial for aiding and abetting him, is not prepared, prepared, or prepared for Republicans, even though it has been a hundred and ten days for Attila Stone. My dear friends, tomorrow you will read a report in İzmir's 9 September newspaper, and this news will really embarrass us: You will read to our three disabled young girls the abuse of a 61 - year - old teacher who was assigned to public education in 20, 21 and 24 years of age. That's enough! Turkey will cease to be the country of murderers, molesters, hit-and-run gangsters. The Justice and Development Party's government has to do an effective job, we have to put an end to these humiliations, but you're after other accounts, you're after giving the people's national will to one person. Unfortunately, any problems in Turkey are of no concern to you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0290par0079	Very good, bravo.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0291par0080	Thank you, Mr. Sertel. Congressmans, the talks on chapter three are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. Those who accept Article 55... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 56... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 57th Amendment... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 58... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 59... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 60th article... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 61... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 62... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 63: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 63 of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Suryet Taşdemir Dilek Öcalan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Ağrı MP Diryet Taşdemir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0292par0105	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, we're all sitting together in Parliament late at night, working together, but I want to make it clear that this way of processing Parliament, this effort that we've done in Parliament, clearly has nothing to do with the country's agenda. Parliament isn't doing its job, but other than that, it's actually dealing with different issues. I mean, there are either condolences, condolences, or oaths of revenge, which have been going on on this bench for days, in fact, on a ritual. So I think it's time we talked about the solution on this stand. Now, for once, apart from glorifying the deaths on this platform, why should we sit down and have a different solution to this problem? We need to debate it. Otherwise, we will not be able to overcome these problems by pretending to be constant; these problems will not be solved; and we will swear our revenge on this stand every day, or offer our condolences. Today, 14 soldiers lost their lives in Bab. I offer them God's mercy, and my condolences to their families. But we, for one, have to discuss it, so why did those soldiers die in Bab? Who's responsible for this? Of course, here, the government's policy in foreign politics is responsible in the first degree, because it's always been a constant imperial dream, deep strategies, daily alliances that have obviously led the country to this deadlock, which the government must account for in a clear and public way, but unfortunately, as always, our government, the AKP, is a permanent victim of its power. We're also dealing with a government that's actually been running this policy for 15 years, expressing itself over a constant victimism, instead of just once being able to answer for what's been done. Look, it was in the press years ago, and you've certainly seen it; only a Japanese engineer committed suicide from the margin of error on a bridge. Obviously, we don't expect you to commit suicide or run the resignation institution -- which we know won't happen -- just once, in fact, take responsibility and account, and explain to the public the reason for what happened. But, as I've said, for 15 years, a policy has been run by demagogue and manipulation. So in fact, we know that it's often run here, that politics is driven. We're constantly witnessing that instead of discussing the real issue, there's actually a policy being carried out on the agenda. A friend of ours just used the concept of war in a statement. Again, the debate was carried out at the ruling tables, whether this was a war or not. So over what happened, instead of an explanation of what happened, through concepts, it's actually a discussion, an agenda, by taking it away from its core. So it doesn't matter what the name of what happened. We need to discuss whether people are dying, people are migrating, villages are being burned down, cities are now empty, poverty is increasing, that's what's happening. Otherwise, it doesn't matter what your name is, what your concept is. But unfortunately, this is a form of politics in Turkey. We've been living this politics for years. Look, first we had the Kurdish problem, we didn't have the card, the wolf, then the lag, the bandit, so for 90 years these conceptualizations, these namings, these governments, they made a lot of them, but what do we come up with? Actually, there's a war going on, there's a conflict going on, and we can't get away from it. Look, in 2005, in Diyarbakır, the Prime Minister of the period and the President of today put his name right there, actually, he put it right, he had a Kurdish problem and he said it was my problem. But unfortunately, we've come back to the status quo point again, and if we're even a little harder, I think we'll get a comeback to the card wolf thing. But we'd like to say once again that it's time to discuss the essence of the work here, with security policies, Kurdish anti-Kurdish politics, that it can't be solved. It's supposed to be called in 2011, the process of peace, the process of negotiation, the period we've been re-explaining as the dialogue process.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0293par0114	Thank you, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0292par0115	...we need to renegotiate our problems with dialogue and negotiations. Therefore, I believe this will also provide a solution to the Middle East problems. I salute you again.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0293par0118	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit Article 63 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 64 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the 6th amendment (d) from the 64th article of the Sunei Property Act, which is currently in session 341 rows. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Erhan Usta Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0294par0132	Motive...
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0293par0133	I'm having it read. One of the measures set for designs to be rejected by the Institute, the phrase "not new" does not provide sufficient information. A decision will be made by the Institute, where the proprietary design is offered to the public anywhere, according to the definition of innovation of Article 56 (4) in the article (4). However, there has been no statement in the draft text or reason for how to conduct this study. The previous data on designs is not easily accessible, as in the patent case. As the motive explains, absolute innovation is preferred, so all previous designs worldwide need to be evaluated. Given that this is impossible to fulfill, it is thought that it would be appropriate for the implementation of the declaration system and for the removal of the (d) be removed from the text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit the 65th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 66... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 67th article... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 68... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 69... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 70th article... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 71st article... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 72nd Amendment... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 73... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 74th article... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 75... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 76... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 77... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 78... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 79... those who do not accept... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 80... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 81... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 82... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 83... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 84... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in the third section are complete. Now, let's begin the fourth section interviews. The fourth chapter covers 85 to 112. On the fourth chapter, Mr Ahmet Selim Yurdakul will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0295par0166	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the fourth chapter of the Sinai Property Act, which we support as the National Movement Party. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, esteemed citizens, before I begin my words, I honor and thank each and every one of them, the heroic Turkish children, who have been martyred in the terrorist organization's bitch attacks, like the seedling. We curse the Turkish nation of evil terror organizations, who have no heart to confront them, who have destroyed the dreams of young Turkish children at their young age. We know a little more in each witness, we die a martyr, we're born a thousand. Friend enemy, make sure that every brother we send as a nation to testify brings the Turkish flag one step closer to the sky. Our flag, which takes the red color from the heroes who fall into the hearts, will always fly. Even as we rise from the shadow of our flag, the Turkish nation will answer the rats with the following lines: "If the earth were to collapse, the sky/ Burnsa, the ashes, the four sides of the earth, the four sides of the lightning, the type, the hurricane, the heart of the heart of the brass, who did not die, the killings. We are a thousand dead people. We are members of a proud nation. By Allah's leave, we will come out of this sea of storms and reach the quiet ports. So, on this journey, on this ship, we are all one, we are all proud members of a nation that is rowing to the same goal. Those who mean for our unity and our unity will lose, those who mean for our safety will be destroyed with their own weapons. Let it be known that those who attempt to harm our children will be extinct. Those who look friendly today and shoot us in the back will die in their own traps. Those who covet our land are doomed to be destroyed. I'd like to address those who are pursuing these scoundrels: anyone who wants to divide our country and buy even a square inch of land must be prepared to pay the price. The only ruler of this land is the Turkish nation. O terror organization of dirty hands, you think you're up against the proudest nation on earth, but you'll see you're wrong. You terrorist organization, you came out of the rat hole in 2000 in 2002, and you've been a traitor ever since. I'd like to remind you that time is like a continuous river. As a matter of fact, Turkish history has been running nonstop for thousands of years. Those who had pointed a gun at the Turk in the past ended up at the bottom of this riverbed. And you're gonna end up at the bottom of this riverbed, and no one's gonna remember you. If you think your romantic sympathizers will find a place in your heart, you're wrong. Their sympathy will rot in that riverbed with your body. With your ugly treachery, you will be forgotten in a part of the riverbed filled with dirt and slime that no one will remember. History honors heroes and brave warriors, not traitors. Disrespectful sons of bitches can't find a place in history or geography. We see those who betrayed us yesterday in different names and different uniforms in neighboring countries today. When you put other flags on your shoulders, you have to remind those who think they're warriors: The warrior has honor, struggles with warrior honor; the warrior has philosophy, but the warrior who fights for his country and country deserves respect. When we look at traitorous terrorists and radical rats, what we see is nothing but disease carrier rodents in the sewers. That's why you're going to lose, that's why you're no more than dishonorable rats. The stories of the conflict you tell to the reporters of foreign countries that protect you and feed you, we tell you in terms of fighting insects. I'd like to address the same Western reporters: all the terrorists you're trying to make out to be heroes are no different than vermin in our eyes. We curse you for protecting terror with your lost European souls, seeking the meaning of life. Look, it's stung by a scorpion carrying a scorpion in its pocket. Europeans who have this much sympathy for terrorists who have betrayed the Turkish nation will understand us when one day they are stung by that scorpion. Little dictators who think they're chess players, tribesmen of a few thousand, even if you have the most modern weapons, you can't resist the tenacity and resistance of the Turkish nation. Ask your father and grandfather, even the Turks taught you what clean drinking water is, and then you betrayed the Necip Turkish nation that brought you peace by believing in the promise of an imperial fiancian kingdom. Since then, the houses of those who invent false decrees about us have been burning, and those who call us infidels have been burning for a hundred years. The poet did not say in vain: "He who puts a shroud on Turk will die a terrible death. " We have the strength to discipline every terrorist who wants to learn it the hard way. Don't worry, we don't run out of soldiers, we don't run out, the flag doesn't go down, the country never breaks up. May Allah give power to our heroic sons, and may Allah grant us the power to destroy the traitors in the dens where they enter; that my Lord will not make the descendants of Metehan to forget the victory of our ancestors who walk to the Mediterranean; that Allah may destroy our unity and our unity and our unity; that Allah may destroy the Turkish police and Turkish soldiers with the sword of Fatih. Hopefully, our rights to be tested by this law will be easier to register, and the work of research and development projects will be well protected. The state develops as much as it can protect its members' rights to the idea and the test. With this law, the rights to work in health care will also be maintained. It will also open the way for Turkish scientists who have worked abroad for years in medicine, biotechnology and pharmacology to carry their work to our country. Our researchers' efforts will be registered by Turkish authorities and our country's RD capacity will improve. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we welcome with great joy the laws that support science, production and industry, pave the way for intellectual development. Hopefully, we'll get a chance to discuss more laws like this in Congress. In fact, that's exactly what the Turkish nation expects of us. Our citizens yearn for the work that promotes entrepreneurial initiative, which gives our researchers the crown of honor. From now on, as a Turkish nation, we want to be a society based on information production rather than concrete and construction. If we all discuss this together, act in love and respect, we will pass these laws in the form of the Turkish nation, and as long as we maintain this unity and unity, as we have just stated, the world will never wash us, if it comes against us, it will never break our unity and unity. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0296par0179	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, MP Haydar Akar will speak. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0297par0183	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, we all get the sad news, and we continue to receive it. I ask God's mercy to our soldiers who were martyrs in El Bab, and to our brothers, and to their families, and to our nation. I hope our number of martyrs doesn't increase, and I hope we don't make martyrs anymore. As we look at the last ten days, we lost 44 in Beşiktaş, another 45 in Kayseri, another 45 in Kayseri, another 14 in Kayseri, and by the way, the Russian Ambassador in our country -- and 14 martyrs in El Bab. In his 20s, when you look, we bury young saplings. In Koaceli, we buried two of our martyrs at the weekend. We've been with their families, we've shared their pain, but it's our duty now to minimize these shares, not to increase them. Yes, it's our fault, we as the opposition are guilty because we can't prevent your wrong foreign policy, but you're also guilty because you can't say stop! A country's foreign policy should be national, not dependent on one person. The national education of a country must be national, as its name is understood. Six national education ministers should not be transformed into national education, according to each minister. Foreign policy, according to the ideology of the ruling parties, if conservative, we should have common goals, not in the Middle East, you know, nationalist Asia, but in Europe. In our national goals, opposition parties, ruling parties must compromise. Look, my fellow lawmakers, there are very few MPs upstairs in parliament right now. We all have low faces. We can't have that happiness when we're spending together a bill that Turkey needs, and we can't make our people feel the happiness that is waiting for us. I'm looking at this, and I'm watching the opposition group, and I'm watching the ruling group, and we're all going down. But, what do you see up there? Most of our friends are upstairs. Where? In another gym. What's he seeing? They are discussing a regime change called a constitutional amendment. That's not what Turkey needs, friends. Yes, we've all emphasised the constitutional amendment during the election period, the fact that Turkey was not governed by the Constitution in 1982... which has changed 18 times, the 112 clause has changed, the 56 clause has changed before 2002, and after 2002, 56 articles have changed in your administrations. In fact, when you look at it, there's nothing that hasn't changed. But I was still saying that Turkey needs a new constitution. This new constitution was not a one-man regime, it was not to be taken from the palace and given back power to the people; it was not to be expected. When you look at the articles of the Constitution, they're not the constitution that we promised this nation in the streets, in election campaigns. Take a look, I'd like you to examine the materials one by one, please. We're moving fast towards a system that's heading towards a completely one-man regime. Okay, let's face it, a one-man regime. For 14 years it's already been run by one man, Turkey, for 14 years. You've solved terrorism in 14 years? In 2002 you received this power with seven martyrs, five of our security forces, and two of them were civilians. At the point where we're here today, we've been talking about over 800 martyrs in the last year, my friends. Why didn't the only man figure it out? If one man's regime is going to solve this, come and tell this nation, my friends, come and tell this nation. Let's talk about this upstairs, if we're going to make a constitutional amendment, let's talk about this, talk about how we're going to solve this terror. So the one-man regime, the only man in Turkey in 14 years, has solved unemployment in Turkey, my friends? We're experiencing the greatest unemployment in history? When you look at Republic history, we haven't had this much unemployment. Why can't they figure it out, guys? What do you have, a magic formula that will come in 14 years and touch that magic wand and solve the unemployment problem in Turkey? He couldn't because he couldn't solve it for the reasons we talked about today, because of the industry, the production, the technology that we're trying to talk about. Yeah, he didn't untie her. Well, even Izmit, which you received with 30,000 unappointed teachers, in my constituency, there will be no more 30,000 teachers in the squares, and there will be no more teachers in my power. A one-man regime to solve this, friends in Turkey? I wonder how you'll figure it out. Have you increased production in this country? You haven't opened a facility in the name of the manufacturing plant since you arrived, invested in concrete, on the bridge, on the road. Yes, does Turkey need this? There are friends, but Turkey needs to solve terror before the bridge, friends. Turkey needs to increase production before they do, friends. Were we able to do that? I'm afraid we didn't. You've developed agriculture? No. The Minister of Agriculture announced the National Agriculture Project. For 14 years, this country's agricultural project, its policy was unofficial, my friends? I'm not talking about hay where we came from 14 years later, we've only increased production in one product, one product, one corn. It's a product that we increase to produce sweeteners that poison our children. Today, we have increased the product of Cargill to add capital to the American capital of American forces. And that's it? We couldn't solve the problem of minimum wage, we couldn't solve poverty. 17 million poor people in this country. You're bragging that we've increased your benefits, 17 floors, 20 floors. What you should be bragging about is that after we came to power, we didn't leave the poor in Turkey, we didn't increase the poor 17 times, but... we also reduced the number of poor to 3 million, 2 million, 1 million. You should have said 17 million. Now, about technology... have you developed technology? Actually, I wanted to show you a picture here. Mr. Secretary, look, this is a picture taken today in Batman. Look, fellas, look at your love, this picture is taken in a hospital hallway, it says emergency exit, emergency exit door. We didn't develop this technology, the technology at the bottom, those developed countries, we developed the technology at the base. He put a lock on the emergency exit door. Well, we're, uh, we're, uh, we're, uh, we're, uh, we're, uh, we're, uh, we're, uh, we're, uh, we're, uh, we're, uh, we're, uh, we're, uh, we're, We don't develop technology for him, nobody cheats on anyone. I asked the minister a question, did our export of high-tech products increase in production? Since 2002, our exports of high-tech products have dropped and our production has also fallen. So there's a lot we have to do in this country. We're not going to negotiate a one-man regime up there, fellas. Not up here, we'll discuss the democratization of Turkey, we'll talk about using individual rights and freedoms, we'll talk about the election dam for parties in this parliament, we'll solve them. We will strive to make Turkey a democratic country and a law-run country. Where there's no law, where there's terror every day, there's no technology, there's no production. Yeah, the industrialist needs it, the industrialist needs it, but no one comes into this country and invests in it. Can a servant of God come out who says he'll invest? Is it possible to talk about production, about new investments, friends, in a country where bombs go off every day, property is taken away, laws don't work, justice isn't independent? It's not, is it? I'm afraid that's our sad situation. One, two examples suggest that you're playing a positive Pollyanna; this is what we've done. It's like you're telling people that Turkey is skipping the age. There are so many examples to give, so many examples. You know what this looks like? Galatasaray is like a UEFA champion. When Barcelona becomes UEFA champion, no one talks or talks about a team that's a UEFA champion every year, but in one country, once in 30 years, once in 50 years, everyone brags about it, and that's what we do. Look, we're gonna talk patents, we're gonna talk brands. When we look at the number of patents, it's clear what we're going through when we look at RD. There's not much to talk about, really. Before these laws, we need to sit down and develop a national industrial project. We need to correct our national education before these laws do. The PISA results have been discussed a lot. Yeah, we're raising students who don't understand what they're reading. The Minister of National Education says that if we had sent students to Fen High School, we would have been successful. So let's open science high school, guys, science high school. If we're going to achieve development, we need to focus on science if we're going to turn Turkey into a prosperous, self-producing country. Unfortunately, none of this is happening in Turkey. Again, I say we must capture the common mind in order for Turkey to get rid of these plagues. In order for us to walk the streets with our heads held high, as lawmakers, as people representing the nation, we must come up with a common mind in this Parliament. He says if we don't come up with this solution, there are darker days ahead, and I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0298par0196	Thank you, Mr. Akar. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Şanlıurfa MP Osman Baydemir will speak. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0299par0200	Thank you. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all with respect and respect. All the lives of all those who have lost their lives in Bab. From July 2015 to this day in this geography, I remember with respect and respect all the lives that have died in the wars, in the bombings, in the attacks, and once again, my condolences to their families. As a politician, as a defender of the longings of the people that I represent, I would like to say that I feel even more pain at expressing my condolences on this stand, because it is the duty of politicians, who are the rulers of politics and politics, not to offer condolences, but to prevent it, Mr. President, to show their efforts to prevent it. Today we're talking about the process of protecting the idea and the patent of testing rights, but what we really need to protect is the human life that we need to achieve, human life. No matter what happens, we won't be able to bring back one of the things we've lost, and we won't be able to produce a cure for the suffering of their parents and children. And yet, why does he repeat himself every day? Why is it allowed to repeat itself every day, given opportunity? If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a few things clear about these reasons first. Since the day I set foot under the roof of this Parliament, we have demonstrated our criticism of the government, we will continue to bring our criticisms, but we have not only held mirrors, we have proposed a way out, and we will continue to suggest a way out, no matter what, because it is a dead end, both inside and outside, war is a dead end. Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, peace is the greatest idea that humanity has ever produced and the most unprecedented idea of peace, peace. As long as we don't inherit peace for future generations, as long as we fail to build a social contract that guarantees the right to live and the safety of a person, the decline in both thought and economic values will continue, unfortunately. In this minival, the way out is to strengthen legal democratic politics above all, not close the door to legal democratic politics, not lock them up. But come, this is the 5th month of the State of Emergency, and we have completed the 5th month. The State of Emergency, which is said to have been declared public detention, torture, and intimidation, continues to grow as a building that grows daily. Once again, the heavy bill of the State of Emergency has been raised to the Kurdish (Kurdish) and once again to the Kurdish politician. In a hundred and fifty days, 4,222 people have been taken into custody, so on average 28 people a day are taken into custody. 1,068 people have been arrested, including our co-Chair, our MPs, our co-chairs and other executives, 1,068 people. Again, 8,523 people were also taken into custody in 17 months from July 22nd, when the conflicting process began. Mr. President, from July 2015, 23 HDP co-chairs have been arrested, 44 HDP district co-chairs, 17 DBP district co-chairs and 42 DBP co-chairs. 12 of our co-Chairs, along with 12 of our deputies, three of our central executive board members, three of our party council members, over 750 of our districts and district managers have been arrested. 69 co-chairs have been arrested, 46 municipalities have been appointed trustees, the number of mayors who have been dismissed is 58, 10 co-chairs currently in custody, now, at this time, as of this time. During the week we celebrated December 12th Week of Human Rights, wishes, longings, demands were expressed -- I'm telling you very clearly -- life was poisoned once again, life was poisoned with poison, life poisoned with poison. Until that day, 756 parties and executives in 33 cities across Turkey have been taken into custody, including 16 HDP co-chairs. We live in Urbana, the city where I was chosen to weigh the most in this painting, which is being kept alive in Urbana. Almost 210 people, politicians, lawyers, civil citizens are currently in custody at the time. Viranşehir Co-Chair Emrullah Cin and Bozova Co-Chair Zeynel Taş are now in custody. DBP, HDP's co-chairs, executives, delegates of Democratic Society Congress are currently in custody. Nine of our colleagues, a lawyer, a lawyer, are currently in the custody of Urbana. About 160 people are being held in this cold, in this atmosphere at the Hall of Halilije. The detentions are no longer held in the police department, but in concentration camps. I'm telling you very clearly, for 11 days, 160 people have been using a single sink, a single wet floor in that environment, not a single doctor's control, and about 50 women have been held in the Urban Anti-Terror Division for 11 days. Along with these, only seven people have been taken into custody, and the lawyers who can represent these people are being held along with them. Which means the defense itself is currently in custody. Think of a policy, think of a government, when it doesn't take the preventive measures it needs to take, when it doesn't, it's going to pay for its lack of insight from legal democratic politics. Here's what I'm saying, and what I'm missing, for God's sake, is not a coup. If it's not a coup, what is it? If this practice had been done to the government party, if it had been done to another political party within Parliament, what would it have been called, not a coup? With that dignity, it's to bring democracy to its knees, to break democracy, and democracy can't be violated and guaranteed the future of this country. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, not only do we lose the lives we lost today, but we don't just lose them; regardless of who, whose name, what it is, the future of the children who live today is being stolen, their future, their future, and the future of the unborn children is being blackened. There's only one way out, one way out: look at history, history. Come, let's look at history together. When this geography held hands with the Kurdish people, the Mesopotamian people, and formed an alliance, a place of honor in the history scene. Every time a man here destroyed his own peace, his own sisterhood law, he paid the bill very heavily. Come, once again, let politics take its promise, and once again, let us be joint partners in an effort to secure the right to live together, the right to peace, the right to live in safety. I salute you all with the utmost respect.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0300par0211	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir. On behalf of him, Mr. Mehmet Naci Bostancı, there is a change of name. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0301par0215	Mr. President, dear friends, our friends here are essentially reviewing both the law and Turkey's general issues. We have answers to all of these, but given these answers, there's always a mutual polemic situation, which is not only the place we're talking about, but the place where the work needs to be done, and today, more or less, all parties are trying to break a law with an alliance. Basically, the answers to these issues are in the past texts and the transcripts, but sometimes you have to go for it. For example, there's no one who doesn't know that peace is the most precious thing. In this country, don't we, as the AK PARTY, want peace and peace in this country as power? We'd love to. No one's nose bleeds, everyone's peace and quiet, people's faces smile, no one's life. Is there anyone who wouldn't want that? He must be out of his mind. So, why do these things happen? If someone tries to impose on you a policy that they call peace and reconciliation with a weapon in their hand, it will be my peace. If they say peace, you will not accept it because its name is not peace. Turkey has been facing the challenge of a terrorist organisation since 1984. It's going down, it's going down, it's slowing down, it's accelerating, but since 1984, there's a terrorist organization who's been trying to create a situation in Turkey through an ethnic identityist politics that has built its entire strategy on it. What he's trying to do is let the blood flow, let the people die, because there's going to be a revolutionary situation, a politics from their bloody bodies. That's the expectation. Let the Kurdish children die so that people can gather under our flag over the death of those Kurdish children. In this country, let the Turkish people, let the other people die, let them die so that a nationalist rage will rise upon the Kurds and the Kurds themselves become Kurds for themselves, as they call themselves in literature. We can't afford to do that. So let an angry, angry, aggressive nationalism, a nationalism driven by blood flow, thus bring us to life. Let him gather the Kurds we can't reach under our flag. That's the strategy of violence, that's the point. So, what did the government do? In all this time, in fact, since 1984, in 14 years of this, the AK PARTI has looked at the political side of the business, and looked at the political side, and looked at it, and looked at it in ways that could be handled in peace and peace, but unfortunately, it has not been concluded and, ultimately, if necessary, it is the organization that uses legitimate force to ensure the unity and continuity of a society -- in this framework, it has fought against the terrorist organization for the well-being of these people. Of course, the existence of a terrorist organization doesn't essentially cause only problems with illegitimate powers. On the same sociopolitic floor, at least it's intelligent, looking at things like this, it's haunted by its own ghost, it's corrupted by its own setting, and it creates a claim and a guardianship over it. The lightest of it is that a man in the mountain exalts himself over the culture of violence with a weapon in his hand, while those who stand on legitimate grounds and try to move on with political skill, insult, provoke, and establish a judgment on them based on both violence and morale. Turkey will, of course, overcome this with democracy. We all need to strengthen democracy. If peace comes to this country, we'll do the government's work, strengthen democratic ground, and we'll have to co-operate. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0302par0222	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. On behalf of him, Mr. Kazim lion will speak for the last time. Here you are, Mr. Arslan.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0303par0226	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love. I share the pain of 14 of our martyrs from El Bab. Seriously, we're hurt again, we're hurt again, but we're dealing with a power that can't seem to come up with a solution to our martyrs. Now, today we're discussing the fourth chapter of Sunei Property Act 341. I made a personal commitment to the general. This section provides an arrangement to regulate the scope of patent rights, borders, protection of rights, and rights. We as a group, the Republican People's Party, are doing everything we can to get the law out as soon as possible. We're just trying to get this law to come out that can respond to the expectations of the business world as soon as possible. I'd like to thank all my friends who've been working on it. Look, if we could achieve the unity and unity that we have provided in every field in this law, I truly believe that if the opposition party, including members of the ruling party, the minister, the Prime Minister, the President, had taken into account the proposals that we, the Republican People's Party, had taken into account, many problems would not have been solved, and Turkey's important problems could have been solved in a better way. So, we're showing this today, and we're seeing this. Turkey has a lot of fundamental problems today. Here's terror, here's where we deal with terrorist organizations. On the one hand, ISIS, on the other hand, the PKK, we are at a point where we find Turkey in a terror spiral. There is also poverty, unemployment, corruption; instead of building solutions, we face constant bickering, criticism, and the inability of power. Today, unemployment has reached 12 per cent, and our young unemployed have risen to over 25 per cent. We have close to 400,000 teachers -- these teachers are idle, and the National Ministry of Education is leaving our teachers in the middle by employing hired teachers. We have a lot of agricultural engineers, we have vets, we can't assess them in agriculture, we can't evaluate them in livestock, my dear friends. Due to the wrong foreign policy we have implemented, we have removed Turkey from its position, which can show its own strength in the Middle East and within the European Union, and we have established a period of terrorism-fighting, almost like a Middle Eastern country. Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who for ninety-three years has demonstrated the principle of peace and peace and relations with our neighbors, which so far all of Turkey's rulings have followed. How did this country, which has been living in this country for 90 years, sisterly, Turkishly, Kurdish, with Laz, with Alevi, with Sunni, come to a point where suddenly it's broken down, it's broken down, it's broken down, it's conflicted with each other? I think we should sit down and look for the answers together in this House, and I think the government should find the answers and do its duty within the framework of these suggestions. So, my dear friends, in a time of so much pain, I say we should focus on the basic problems of the country, put aside our presidential problems, put aside the changes we're going to make in the Constitution, return to our core, return to our own problems, and return to ourselves, and solve these problems together. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit04spe0304par0236	Thank you, Mr. lion. Congressmans, the talks on chapter four are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section four to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. I submit the 85th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 86th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 87th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 88th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 89 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 90th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 91st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 92nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 93 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 94th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 95th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 96th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 97th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 98th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 99th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 100th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 101st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 102 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 103 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 104 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 105 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 106th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the number 107 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 108 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 109 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 110th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 111 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 112 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-21sit05spe0304par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 341. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 443, ranked second in line with the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with Law Bill 439 and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, ranked third place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will no longer be available, it is now 14 p.m. on Thursday (December 22nd 2016) to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken by Thursday (December 22nd 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00, thanking all the leaders, deputies, and all the groups, and saying good night.
