tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, who wants to speak about the problems of the citizens of Shia-Caferi.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, if you could just shut him up...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0001par0011	Congressmans, I'm sensing a hum in the General Assembly. The preacher's on the stand, he'll start talking now. I invite you to listen to the silence and the preacher. Here you go, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the problems of our Shii and Jaferi citizens. I salute you all. Dear friends, our citizens of Shii, Jaferi have mainly resided in the provinces of Iğdır, Kars and Ağrı, and have migrated to our metropolitan provinces, such as Istanbul, İzmir, Ankara, Antalya, Bursa, in the following years due to economic difficulties and unemployment. Now, as you know, the 10th article of our Constitution has ruled that everyone is equal to the law, regardless of language, race, color, gender, political thought, philosophy, religion, sects and so on. The 24th article of the Constitution also states that every citizen has the right to make his faith, his worship free and free. Now, based on these two fundamental provisions of the Constitution, our citizens, since Turkey was founded, despite the use of the official ideology through the Sunni sect, especially religious belief, expression, and all sorts of state possibilities, like many beliefs, such as Aleviality, Syrianicism, many others, as ostracized, have not been able to find a solution to the problems of our citizens of the Jaferi faith over the years. As it has not been produced, we see in our country that recent sectal conflicts in the Middle East, especially in recent years, have led to some of the attacks, other attacks on our citizens, other exclusions, exclusion. Basically, the government's primary duty is to ensure that all its citizens can express their beliefs freely. Unfortunately, when the general budget for the chairman of the Dianetworks leaves the budget, there is no money left in the general budget, as it is estimated that there are about 2 million in our country, the conditions for our Jaferi citizens to be free to do their beliefs and worship. So, at the beginning of these problems -- although we have very little time -- we need to address a few specific problems, for example, no help from the general budget. In particular, our fellow believers do not allow religious scholars to take part in any state authority or hierarchical structure, but they insist on subjecting the religious scholars of this faith to 657. However, they need to be able to build their own autonomous structures, their own autonomous institutions, and they need to be helped in this way. There are educational problems, problems with the upbringing of religious scholars. There are no objective evaluations of the Shia-Capheri sect in mandatory religious studies. Again, there are serious attacks on television, on the media, on the beliefs of our fellow believers, who are constantly speaking under the guise of some ignorant religious scholar. Again, there have been physical attacks on Shia mosques in the last year, especially in Istanbul's Great Czechmece and Esenyurt. These citizens have property problems towards building mosques, especially red tape. For example, in a mosque that is wanted in the Great Drawing Mosque, the Great Drawing Kaycam is writing to the municipality and instructing that the mosque should not be allowed to be built. More importantly, Mr. President's criticism of the congregation, which is more than just Shia, is the statement that constitutes a total hate crime. So I'm calling on the House to solve these problems fundamentally. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I believe there must be a solution to the problems of these citizens. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0003par0030	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Khakat MP Oldim Durmaz (Admir Durmaz) who wants to talk about the answer to the question proposal on non-assigned teachers and paid teachers. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0004par0035	Mr. President, I'm going to speak today for our teachers who are hoping to be appointed while they're working for the KPSS. Unfortunately, education has been our greatest captivity these days. I'm going to share the answer the Ministry of National Education has sent to our question proposal with you, with young teachers waiting for the appointment, with all the public. As of 2016, there are 55,568 teachers working as a paid teacher. I'm not saying that, Mr. Nabi Avcı is the Minister of National Education. Unfortunately, these numbers are pathetic. This answer is actually the declaration of our position in training with the AKP's power, dear friends. While thousands of young people from national education are waiting for the appointment, the Ministry of National Education also legitimises the subcontractor system in education with paid teaching. It's called labor exploitation, inequality, the theft of the hope of young teachers. Dear lawmakers, non-assigned teachers, teachers who need to work but are not employed, teachers who have been stolen. They're teachers who live their whole school life dreaming of teaching, but they see that it doesn't happen after school. These young people are the ones who teach, who go to the same school with him, who spend less money on their labor than a friend who does the same job together. This disgrace, free of justice, free of right, must be corrected at once. Dear friends, I don't believe any of us have the right to steal the hope of these young people. The KPSS test is ten days away, and there's still no telling how many teachers will be taken. How is this system failure, how is this unplanned in education? The education system and the future of our children are in whose hands, behold, dear friends, my fellow citizens. There's a KPSS test on May 22nd, but we haven't heard a word from anyone in charge of appointing teachers yet. With what hope do these children study, with what hope will they take the test and succeed, or will their families expect success? Mr. Secretary must immediately explain the date of the appointment of teachers and the number of teachers assigned. In 2002, when the AKP came to power, the number of non-assigned teachers was 70 thousand, and today, my valued friends are 350 thousand.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0005par0041	Tell me how many we've assigned.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0004par0042	But what were the authorities doing in those days when they came to power asking for a citizen's vote? Yes, they were saying that there's a shortage of teachers in this country, and you're testing the teacher? Dear friends, this has happened. Between 2003 and 2015, a total of 2 million 997,518 teachers entered KPS. However, 16 per cent of these teachers were appointed by AKP governments, and the remaining 84 per cent did not know what they were doing, and no one was looking, nor did anyone, unfortunately, listen to the voice of these young people. Dear friends, our most important mission is education. Mr. Secretary, who has begun speaking of this painful balance sheet, remains silent, but the bride says, "Let's all listen to the voice of the teachers waiting for the appointment, and let's hear the numbers about the appointment of August, and let's address the future of these young minds in a square manner."
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0006par0046	Thank you, Mr. Durmez. The third non-responsive statement belongs to the Sheikh Şaban and Kastamon MP Murat Demir. Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0007par0051	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I congratulate the Miraç Kandili, who we understood yesterday, who represented all mankind by our beloved Prophet, and who stood before the Lord of Genab, and who, on this occasion, remember our martyrs with mercy, to their grieving families and to our nation. In Kastamon, I made a promise every year for the Memorial Week of the Sheikh Şaban, the Guardians and the Marriages, the first week of May. Mazreti Mevlana, Haci Bektas Veli, Haci Bajram Veli and Sheikh Şaban-ı Veli in the 16th century; four guards of Anatolia; the unity of our geography, the unity and the peace of our nation; five bodyguards who live and live with moral, humanitarian and civilized values for the root of our nation. Dear lawmakers, one of our rare provinces, once bordered from Sinop. From Süküdar, where there was no enemy invasion in its history, is Kastamon. Kastamonon was the capital of the province of Kastamonu, a regional and historical centre of the West Black Sea in Anatolia, which had seven thousand years of history. It is one of the best examples of Kastamon's description of our museum, which has significant traces of every civilization he has ever hosted. In the Ottoman Empire, Kastamonu Sanctu, which remained the administrative centre in terms of administrative subsidies in the period of the Ottoman Empire, remained the administrative centre to the east, to the west, to the west, to the west, to the coast of Izmit, to the south, to the Black Sea, and to the north, to the republic as a large province of the empire. Like all around the province, you can experience another century's culture, atmosphere, every time you take a step. ==Early life==In prehistoric times, Castamonu, from Byzantine to Byzantine tribes, is an open-air museum with deep traces from the Ottoman Empire to the republic. Castamon is an ancient city in the western Black Sea region, with its natural beauty preserved throughout its history from every shade of green to the infinity of blue. It is the city of Castamon, the city of the mountains, the valleys, and the forests, and the seas, which have been separated from the valleys of the Orbs and the Ilgaz Mountains, and have crossed the border of the Black Sea, and have leaned against the valleys of Zazz, and the valleys, and the valleys, and the valleys, and the valleys, and the sea. Let's not forget that every city has a spiritual sultan. From the past to the present, many rulers, and the spiritual owner of Kastamon. Kastamonu is the city of Sheikh Şaban. And for that reason, it's a holy city. This knowledge, born in Kastamon, illuminated the idea world of East and West thought. His highness, the Sheikh Şaban, has raised 300 caliphs in the new methods of execution. This Halveti Order of Şabaniye caliphs, who were assigned to enlighten people, served as scholars in Asia Minor, Egypt, Hejaz, Pakistan, Africa, the Balkans and many countries. Sheikh Şaban-saban is a special person who has led our society, who has played a role in meeting on its spiritual foundations, who is still doing that role today. In short, knowing him, understanding him, teaching our children, introducing him to the world is one of our most important tasks. Because people who don't know their own past can't plan for their future. People who receive their share of the blessings of the sultans of the heart live by feeling the spiritual presence of the sultans of the heart. For this reason, the Sheik Şaban, not only in his own time, has produced important effects on the whole world and on the people. I'd like to complete my speech with a word from Herikh Şaban, who passed away in 1568, after having reached the office of Pir for more than 40 years.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0008par0059	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the electronic system and demanded a word. I'm starting the promise process. Mr. Tuncer...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0009par0065	Mr. President, dear MPs, I'd like to bring up something about ISKUR. When an application is applied for a job at the Amasya ISKUR offices, they say that if the person who applied is a member of a party other than the ruling party, he should resign from the party, otherwise he will not be employed. I experienced this in the district of Taşova, Amasya, and again in the district of Hamamöz. And for that reason, I've lived to see in person the petitions of the Republican People's Party as well as that of those who resigned on the grounds. I don't understand what authority the ISKUR authorities are consolidating the membership of the political party that the law does not forbid and does not run on condition. This application is a crime, it's unacceptable. I'd like to request that the authorities who did this resign immediately from here. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0010par0069	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0011par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Officials of the government, as it is known, one of the most important problems facing us as a bleeding wound throughout the AKP's rulings is the problem of unappointed teachers. The government that turned our educational system into a sabbatical has no solution to the problem of our teachers. The AKP, which seeks to resolve the problem with the subcontractor's teaching system, is unaware of our teachers who have committed suicide and who are no longer able to face their families. I warn you: if education policies continue to change every day, four years from now, our teacher will be waiting for the appointment of nearly a million teachers. The AKP is making a mistake. The AKP makes mistakes in education policies. First, I demand the opening of 100,000 positions at the next appointment, which will be distributed fairly, and I urge the AKP (AKP) to immediately give up the educational policies that have paralyzed our educational system. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0012par0075	Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0013par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. The other day, our Tuncay Özkan MP had an operation, and I wish him well, and it was reported that there was a DDT in his liver. In the 1960s, DDT was banned in many countries around the world and banned in our country in the 1970s. Despite these bans, the DDT (DDT) has not been destroyed for many years and has even been found in the bodies of penguins in the poles many years later. Does the government have any control over this drug that is harmful to the environment and human health? How is it still used in many places and in agricultural areas, even though it has been banned for years? We demand measures taken against this.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0012par0079	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0014par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Environmental problems are becoming increasingly heavy in my constituency, Burma. One of the greenest and cleanest neighborhoods in Bursa, Kayapa neighborhood, is the goal of cracking stones, elimination facilities, and area expansion, which will do great damage to the environment. Citizens who do not want facilities in the neighborhood have submitted their appeals to the Environment and Urbanism City Directorate. In the first project application of the company, the neighborhood people won the trial, the license was revoked. As a result, the company changed its name and resumed its activities. The peasant is already troubled by the present situation, every day there's rock-cracking, breaking, dust coming out, kids can't play in the streets, peasants can't hang their laundry. I wish the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism would consider the public's petitions and make a public decision. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0015par0084	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0016par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Since June 7th, 495 hero soldiers have been martyred, leaving hundreds of widows, orphaned children. However, with so many martyrs coming, I condemn those who sing guerrilla anthems under the roof of the Supreme Assembly, and those who chant PKK slogans. I'd like to thank the High Council for its criminal action.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0015par0088	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0017par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, students across Turkey are given access discount cards but are given separately in each province, so students across Turkey are unable to benefit when they go with someone else, and in this sense there is a victim for students across the country. I demand that these discounted public transport cards be recognized throughout Turkey and this victim be eliminated. Again, there is the same problem for our other citizens regarding public transportation. Throughout Turkey, if a card received in one province is valid in another province, the victims will be prevented. Do you have any work on this? Or I'd like you to study. Another problem: there is a zoning problem in the Yavuzturk neighbourhood of our province of Skopjedar. Kuskudar district Yavuzturk neighborhood is really a victim of this. He's been a citizen of the ruling party for more or less four semesters, but his victimism is not resolved. I mean, we call it the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0018par0094	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0019par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, pensioners visited the platform representatives of Parliament, met with lawmakers, made a press statement and tried to express their victims. I've touched on that in my previous parliamentary talks, but unfortunately we can't see a concrete step in solving this matter by the government. You're not on age terms, you're on a premium day and you can retire on insurance, but there's been a legal provision of age, and many of our citizens have been victimised. We need to be able to solve the problems of those citizens whose employer is old and does not employ them, and the state finds them young and provides them with pension. The Republican People's Party has a law proposal on this issue. I want to call the government and all the parties from here: we need to get together and work this out together. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0020par0100	Mr. Bonekara...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0021par0102	Mr. President, Nurettin Demirtaş, a member of the PKK's terrorist organization, has blessed the live bomber terrorist who killed 37 people in Ankara who is believed to have divine power in Greek mythology. Demirtaş wrote this in the newspaper, which is the European broadcaster of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), where some Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) people attended the support meeting. I'm not saying it as evidence of who's having a relationship with the PKK, because it's obvious, and I'm just saying it for the record, just so we know who's having a relationship with whom. My brother is fighting the villains. I suggest that the leader read it.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0020par0103	Mr. Lion...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0022par0105	Mr. President, sewage waste in the neighborhoods, particularly Denizli Tavas, is poured out to the Plain of Tavas, which has the size of the world's second territorial area as thick as meat. There is an urgent need for a wastewater repair facility on the plain, which is scheduled to be watered down soon. When will the wastewater treatment plant be built for this? 2) In our province of Tavas, there is a growing problem of heavy waste and waste storage. At Tavas, solid waste and garbage are now out of control, creating garbage mountains in some areas. Do you plan to build a facility to assess these solid wastes? 3) The natural water supply leading from Tavas to Bozdoğan Dam is combined with waste water. From time to time, these natural water sources used in irrigation damage the environment. Do you intend to take any precautions about that? 4) Natural water sources that feed the Tavas Akyar Pond are combined with wastewater from the Yellowabat neighborhood, causing the pollution of the Akyar Pond.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0023par0110	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0024par0112	Mr. President, Russia and Iran, alleged to have taken a position in Syria to fight DAEŞ, have shot Aleppo 670 times in the last ten days; 300 civilians have lost their lives, 300,000 civilians have become open targets. These alliance planes bombed hospitals in Aleppo. Vasim Muaz, the only pediatrician of Aleppo, died in these attacks. No one hears Aleppo's scream, the world plays three monkeys. The United Nations does nothing but produce reports. For this reason, we say: "The world is greater than five. " I invite the international community to listen to the cries of the oppressed in Aleppo, and I salute the great assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0023par0113	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0025par0115	Dear MPs, Mustafa Kemal and our citizens living in the neighborhoods of Loved Veysel, within the districts of Ataşehir district of İstanbul, are being victimised. Complaints from our side suggest that the slums of the residents were not intentionally allowed to build. Citizens in the neighborhood wonder why they are not allowed to build their own land, while land within five metres of their own slums is allowed to build. Due to the fact that most of our Alevi citizens live in a neighborhood, our citizens think it is intentional that the zoning plan should not be removed. Although our neighborhood chiefs have repeatedly applied to the Metropolitan Municipality and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, unfortunately, they have not received a return. I'm calling on the authorities to take the necessary steps to make it necessary and to address the victims of the residents. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0023par0117	Mr. Stonedemir...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0026par0119	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are today May 4th, the 79th anniversary of the day of the decision to destroy and destroy my class. In 1937, there was a great massacre, and tens of thousands were killed, and exiled, and the daughters were adopted, and the geography of my class was inhumanized. My class has maintained its social, political, and cultural identity throughout its history, and has not given in to any power. They were massacred because of their properties. The insistence on Alevi and Kurdish identity is the main cause of the massacre. The continuation of the mentality in 1937 continues to make new lectures in 2016 in Sur. Once again, I honor those who lost their lives in the massacre of my class.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0023par0121	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0027par0123	We are on the anniversary of the death of Khalit Çelenko, the legendary lawyer of the 1968 generation, who was born in Antioch in 1922 and was banned from speaking Turkish under the French buffalo. His death left us all precious memories of the process he was actually going through. The teacher represented trade unions, labor organisations, all intellectuals, and led the establishment of the Teachers' Union of Turkey and the establishment of the Human Rights Association and the foundation of the Association of Modern Legalists. I'd like to pay my respects to him, reminding him of how appropriate one of his last words is to be a member of the 1968 generation.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0023par0125	Mr. Özdemir, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0028par0127	The European Union Commission has announced its expected recommendation. In response to the opportunity of the refugee crisis and the re-enactment agreement we signed, the government has pledged to meet the 72 criteria for visa exemption. Despite all our support in the process -- the power wars and the leadership debates within the ruling party -- the Parliament's efforts were interrupted last week. Even though we worked until midnight before the day the recommendation was announced, we still failed to complete the 72 criteria the ruling party had committed to, like a student who turned in his homework late. It was quite dramatic that we expected immediate access to the European Union visa space. Eventually, according to the recommendation, we will continue to meet the criteria for our citizens to enter the European Union's visa liberalisation zone.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0023par0128	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0029par0130	Thank you. Mr. President, our livestock farmers in Çanakkale complain that it should be done in April and that even though we're in May, it still doesn't pay for support. So, when will the mother cattle support be put to bed? In addition, farmers would be paid 15 euros for oil sunflowers, aspirin, canola and soy, as part of the difference payments. As of 1 April, our manufacturers delivered the documents. One kilo of sunflowers were scheduled to be paid to support 30, canola 40, suction 45 and soy 50 cents. When will the difference in 2016 be paid? There is no meal of the hand, nor is it found on time, says our farmer. Shouldn't the government's support for the manufacturer be done in time to make sense? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0030par0134	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0031par0136	Thank you. The pipes in the exit system of the watering pond, which has been used by the Chinese and Hungarians from the rural district of Sixeylül district, are constantly malfunctioning, exploding. They say that the mistake in choosing the location of the main line pipes that were watered down from the pond caused this. Because they can't find water in the watering season, the products' yields are cut in half, and labors are said to be wasted. That's why both our neighborhoods are so victimized. The issue has been forwarded to the DSI several times, and even though applications have been made, a radical solution has not been produced so far, it's been satisfied with the repair of the water pipes, but the repairs are not enough, it's useless, the water pressure doesn't hold up. I looked into it myself last weekend, and our citizens are very concerned. They're deprived of water at this exact time they need water. I'd like to invite the authorities to do their duty regarding this very important problem that concerns the two neighborhoods of our Sixeylül district.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0030par0138	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Gürer... no. Mr. Hero...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0032par0142	Mr. President, dear friends, the camps and social facilities owned by the State Airports on the coast of Oliveli in the District of Urla, İzmir, have been renovated in 2014 and have been spent $5m. This camp is now rented to the Ensar Foundation for $120,000 a year. Who instructed the State Air Square Authority to remove the allocation of this camp? If there's an administrative savings related to the transfer of the camp, why was it spent $5 million on renovations? How many associations and foundations have been invited to the tender? What offers have been made? Will this be the youth camp of the Ensar Foundation? Are the municipalities licensed for renovations? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0030par0144	Mr. Kayan...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0033par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the government removes the quota in the import of living animals, both in cattle and living animal meat, as an excuse to reduce meat prices. Instead of subsidizing our animal manufacturer's inputs and feeding our people cheap meat, it's given to the animal manufacturers of foreign countries. So, our people's money goes to foreign countries. As you have industrialized our country, now you want to take our farmer and animal manufacturer out of production and turn the country into just an import paradise. What is your purpose here? Do you want to improve the country or sink it? Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0034par0149	Thank you. The one-minute question is over. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation from the Kosovo Republic Assembly's National Committee on Education, Science, Technology, Culture, Youth and Sports was granted an official visit to our country, with the decision dated 27/4/2016 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Council of Ministers. The visit of the delegation to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose a parliamentary investigation on behalf of the National Party of Action, under Articles 104th and 105th of the Constitution, in order to prevent bribery and corruption, including the social, legal and economic dimensions of corruption that have never been dropped from the country's agenda in recent years. Deputy Chairman of the MHP Group MP MHP Group In the AKP period, corruption and corruption spread like a virus, corruption and bribery almost covered all institutions. Corruptions in the Lighthouse, municipalities, privatisations, Energy, Transport and Health Ministry have been publicised. Corruptions and corruption in tenders, loans given to supporters from public banks and embezzled daily are reflected in public opinion. The AKP has changed Public Contracts Act 4734 and the Public Contracts Act 158 times, bringing immunity to 64 issues. Thus, the tenders have been taken out of the control of the Public Contraction Act, leading to corruption. The AKP has made the Court unmanageable, paralyzed the Inspection and Control Boards, with 13,000 inspectors. The irregularities in privatisations have been publicised, while many privatisations have been annulled by the judiciary, while the AKP has invalidated judicial decisions on privatisations by the Council of Ministers' decision. According to the Turkish Penal Code, those who were corrupting tenders were sentenced from five to twelve years, but the AKP government narrowed its sentence from five years to three years from five years to seven years from twelve to twelve years from 11/4/2013 and from 6459 to 6459. If the damage was caused by the tender, he lifted the sentence that the punishment would be increased by half, encouraging corruption. Corruption creates instability, affects our lives with security, economic and human size, triggering injustice in the distribution of poverty and income. There aren't enough institutions and organizations where corruption isn't contaminated. The National Movement Party declared December 17th-25 "a week to fight corruption and corruption" between December 17th and December 17th, so as not to be forgotten about the dirty relations in bribery and corruption operations and the subsequent irregularities. While corruption has not interfered with its economic and political power, the AKP's government has been indifferent to the fight against corruption, it has been rejected by the AKP without any consideration of corruption claims, parliamentary research, general debate and investigation motions. While corruption threatens the country's economy, the AKP government's punishment for bureaucrats who have gone over corruption has undermined public confidence in the government and the TBM. It would be appropriate to open a parliamentary investigation to achieve the goal of clean society and prevent corruption. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the corruption of elected politicians and appointed officials in Turkey or in person, we propose and propose that Parliament's investigation be opened under Article 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution. HDP Group Vice President HDP Group Vice President Corruption in which elected politicians and appointed bureaucrats have personally been involved or mediated since the establishment of the Republic of Turkey is constantly on the agenda. With this historical memory, corruption is known to exist in terms of underdeveloped democracies and governance that cannot be preceded by the principle of transparency. Corruption has become a reality of everyday life, especially in the governance understanding that the separation of powers is not politically and administratively clear, that the official ideology has gathered all the separate forces under one roof. A serious search for truth in Turkey means facing corruption. The reality that corruption exists is not only administrative, bureaucratic, and forensic, but also the reality that its political background exists. The undeveloped culture of democracy and the quality of the law state, which Turkey failed to address, particularly the Kurdish problem, has laid the groundwork for corruption initiatives involving politicians, bureaucracy and financial circles. Recently, the agenda of corruption in Turkey was taken into custody by a police operation in 2013, which revealed a typical cycle of corruption. Among those taken into custody, the extent of corruption involving political relatives, financial circles, business people, accusations being bribery, abuse of office, corruption in tenders and smuggling. As far as the press is concerned, the search in the homes will strengthen the idea of corruption. Lands where municipalities do not build are reportedly runtas using the powers of ministries, with large sums of money laundering and gold trade being carried out by people who are involved in corruption. The fact that the AKP's government dismissed the police who conducted this corruption investigation has raised deep doubt about the ongoing investigation. The drafting of speculations on the four ministers involved in corruption, the opening of an investigation in parliament as a result of public pressure, the acquittal of ministers with a numerical majority of power, and the responsibility for numerous violations of the law in the process. Since then, the practice of two years has not relieved their consciences, nor has it been easy for the corrupter to get away with it. In addition, numerous legal proposals and motions to the TBM have failed to respond to the revelation of the truth on this matter. Turkey's process of facing deep corruption and revealing facts is needed. Corruption should also be assessed as well as relations between elected politicians and bureaucrats, and the impact of the periodical official ideology in Turkey should be taken into account. The democratic and bureaucratic issues that provide the basis for corruption for politicians must also be reviewed. We demand a parliamentary investigation into the corruption phenomenon in Turkey, which has been institutionalized, as well as the investigation of corruption allegations uncovered by operations launched on 17 December and 25 December 2013. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a research commission be established in Turkey for the study and detection of the problems facing refugees and asylum seekers, and that the Constitution be opened under Articles 98, 104, and 105, according to Articles 104, and 105. 1) Coral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Diyarbakır]] 3) Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] 11) Burcu Çelik Özkan [[Mwah.]] [[Siirt]] [[Siirt]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Tunceli]] [[Van]] 23) Tuğba Hezer Özturk [[Van]] As it is known, Turkey signed for the Legal Status of Refugees in 1951, but exposed refugees to geographical restrictions. Although protocol was adopted in 1967, the time limit has been lifted, but the geographical limit remains. With this bet, Turkey initially identified Syrian asylum seekers as guests. This gave Syrian asylum seekers no rights, but also the right to deport Turkey. Then, on UNHCR's recommendation, the government temporarily secured asylum seekers, and as of April 2014, this status was provided to the Syrians by Article 91 of the International Protection Act. However, the situation of Syrian asylum seekers has remained vague, and this uncertainty about status has contributed to the problems of asylum seekers. As such, refugees who are concerned about the future are willing to risk their lives to go to Europe through Greece as if they would rather die. We see the dead bodies of Syrian asylum seekers trying to travel to Europe in extremely dangerous ways on newspaper pages almost every day. According to UN sources, Turkey is far from offering asylum seekers even at a minimum, although 2.2 million Syrian asylum seekers are reportedly in Turkey. Because there is no refugee law already in Turkey. There is no civil institution that oversees the conditions of the refugees' lives, which organises them. All jobs related to refugees are conducted by law enforcement, and the problems caused by this situation are quite large. Turkey must first fulfil its responsibilities for Syrian asylum seekers. Unfortunately, this problem only comes to light when boats sink and people die, or when mass migrations like Syria happen. However, the problem of asylum seekers has become a very recent and urgent case. Therefore, it is imperative that a legal infrastructure in accordance with human rights standards and law is created immediately. Due to current legal gaps, problems with asylum seekers' work permit remain, while Syrians are being used as cheap labor force. In order to survive, Syrian asylum seekers are forced to work under low wages, non-human conditions. In construction, industry, downstairs workshops, or other heavy labors, asylum workers are not allowed to complain when their wages are not paid. Because this time, because they don't have a work permit, the law is guilty. Employers who know the situation also benefit from the disadvantaged situation of asylum seekers and often force asylum seekers to work for free. In addition, the number of Syrian women who are trying to provide for the household is serious, and women are forced into prostitution. At best, women are forced to marry older ones at an early age, second wives, or in large numbers. Even for Turkish women, there is not enough protection, but for women who are refugees, it is much more dire. Many men choose young girls under the age of 18 as spouses or sands, and these little girls are subjected to various kinds of tortures. Syrian asylum seekers are also forced to work, selling cigarettes in the streets, struggling to live under very bad circumstances. In fact, under the age of 18, boys and girls are sexually harassed and their children's futures are taken from them. Again, refugees living in camps are struggling to survive under unhealthy, unhygienic conditions, not even their most basic needs, such as health problems, are being met. In addition, asylum seekers who have been sent to various cities have been forced to leave the city, often exposed to the hatred and segregation of the city. As we have stated, it is imperative that the problems of Syrian asylum seekers be investigated and resolved by establishing a commission in all dimensions of social, economic, legal. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Demirel, I believe you have a request.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0035par0252	Yes, President.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0034par0253	Here you go. I'll turn on your microphone for a minute.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0035par0257	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we live in a country that's trapped in pain every day. Today is May 4th. It's the anniversary of the 4th of May when the decision of the class massacre was made. It's a day when the Kurdish people and the Alevi culture were tried to destroy their faith seventy-nine years ago, and with this destruction, I want to express that the people of Dersim are still suffering through this massacre in Dersim. There's still no confrontation with the class massacre. We want to condemn an understanding from here that destroys a people in private, humiliates a belief, and banishes the survivors. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] President, I'll finish my sentence.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0036par0262	Mr. Demirel, I promised for a minute.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0035par0263	Isn't that two plus one, Mayor?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0036par0264	Mr. Demirel, I made a statement yesterday, and let me explain again: On 7 April 2016, the meeting held with 4 Parliament Speakers at the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the members of the group are promised two plus one minute before the agenda, and promised for a minute after the agenda.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0035par0265	President, it's our first word.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0036par0266	Just a moment, Mr. Ironel. Before yesterday's agenda, Mr. Group Vice Presidents did not request a word. I, I suppose, because of yesterday's intensity, the members of the group neglected to request a word before the agenda, so, after I've been on the agenda, I'm promising the members of the following group two plus one minute -- I mean today -- to be specific and not to set a precedent. So, it's not going to be a precedent, so I can't promise you more than a minute, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0035par0268	Let me just finish my sentence.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0036par0269	But that's the understanding we've come to. Otherwise, if the other members of the group have requests to speak for more than a minute, your speech will be a precedent, and I'll have to give it to them. Let's just leave it here. Thank you for your talk.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0035par0270	Then, for the record, I'd like to complete my statement, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0036par0271	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0035par0272	If we had faced the massacre of my lesson, these massacres would not have happened at Çorum, Marastah, Sivasta, Gazi, lice, Roboski, and Roboski, again today, again, in Sur. To prevent and eliminate these, I would like to speak with respect to the people of my class, Seyit Reza, who embrace the Alevi culture, who want to live with all the people who want to live with the Aleki culture, and to face the consequences of the massacre of Derim, and in private, we will not kneel against the lies and lies of my oppressor. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0036par0274	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Mr. Bostanci, come in. I'll turn on your microphone for a minute.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0037par0278	Mr. President, thank you. As a result of his meeting, the European Union Commission has strongly announced that it has decided to grant visa exemption. This was the decision Turkey had been waiting for. We hope that from now on, Turkish citizens will enter the Schengen Region with visa liberalisation. It's important to see it as an important step in a 200-year journey into modernity. On the other hand, the view of history is highly controversial both academically and politically. Every generation updates historical realities itself. What do we mean when we do this upgrade? If we mean to build a country in the common direction of destiny and the future, then it's important to put what we call a confrontation, what we call suffering, what we call suffering, what we call suffering in the future, into the words of a language in the direction of common destiny and in the direction of the future. Our blessings from history are also the construction of the future. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0038par0282	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0039par0285	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we welcome the European Commission's decision. As a matter of fact, as the main opposition party, we are a party within the norms of the European Union and have shown a maximum contribution to the laws under the 72 criteria. I hope it'll come true, because of Mr. Bostanci's statement, it's as if it's over. It's a recommendation yet, there's still a parliamentary phase. It has been stated that it is less than five issues, but despite everything, in national matters, in Turkey's affairs, the Republican People's Party has shown its positive attitude at all times at the point of doing its part. Good luck with that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0040par0288	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0041par0291	Thank you, Mr. President. I wasn't able to get a word in advance because of the intensity of the agenda, but I also did my preparation for this European Union, and our preparation was in this way, and it was humble, with those statements: Today is an important day in Turkey's visa-free travel talks with the European Union countries, and after the agreement signed on March 18th, I said the European Commission's recommendation would be announced today, it was explained, and we would like to point out that even if it was not expected from the Commission that a decision would be a victory against Turkey. The European Parliament is in charge of this matter. I hope there's another decision in the same direction. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has done a busy shift in the framework of this visa exemption calendar. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We, the National Movement Party, have shown the effort and support necessary for these arrangements, which we feel are in the best interest of our country. We'll continue from now on, but I also want the European Union's final decision on visa exemption to be known and that we are closely monitoring the AKP's position. I wish that this would not again be a source of propaganda to misinformation the citizen as such an imaginary, aphasic, abstract victory. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0042par0297	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday (now) 04/05/2016, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On May 04, 2016, Diyarbakır MP Deputy Chair Çağlar Demirel and Diyarbakır MP Idris Bauken proposed that the presentation be read in 1896 rows, in 1837-1938, and in the same session of talks on Wednesday (04/05/2016), which was given to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in an effort to investigate with all dimensions. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal and against it, I will make a pledge to two members of parliament. The first speaker in his favour is Ahmet Yıldırım, Müsh MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0043par0313	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this is indeed the anniversary of an unfortunate day in the history of the republic. On May 4, 1937, the Council of Ministers took a decision and launched a provocation and criticism movement, and a conscious action against our Kurdish, Redhead people -- to read the decision of the Council of Ministers soon after -- was launched; tens of thousands were killed, and tens of thousands were displaced from their homes. In addition to 2K, Kurdlik and Redhead, the women with third K identity had to be marketed almost as a meta, separated from their families, mothers, fathers, to the orphanages, and from there, to a policy of assimilation, to whom they had never, never seen or breathed the same environment, had to be married at a child's age. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have decided on May 4, 1937, that the Council of Ministers, which is limited to 2 articles, has decided: With gathered forces, Nazimiye, Goatzeken, Sin will arrive at the Karason line with a violent attack. 2) This time the people of the rebel district will be gathered and forced to transfer to another location. And this collection operation will be raided into villages, where both weapons will be collected, and what has been obtained by this means will be transferred. For now -- under the decision of the Council of Ministers -- the decision to transfer 2,000 people has been made. Dear lawmakers, in fact, about two hundred and thirty years ago today, after the French Revolution, the nationalist logic that spread from the continent Europe to the world in the 19th and 20th century, especially in the 20th century, caused two jihan wars, and the result of the understanding that forced the nations to dress in these two wars has been very bloody. Starting in 1914, the First Jahan War and the Second Jahan War, which began in 1939, caused the death of 75 million people until today, as a result of the policy of dressing this man's shirt to the people. Dear MPs, efforts have been made to establish autonomous Kurdish rule in the region, with the direction of the Kurdistan Teali Society following the Serv Agreement (the Serv Treaty) in the early 20th century, which in fact corresponds to the break-up period of the Ottoman nation's state. However, Mustafa Kemal, who made his second-largest alliance with Kurds in history with Kurds in the process of preparing for a war of liberation called "Miskimlilli," which would include Anatolian, Mesopotamia, Mesopotamia, and the Caucasus and Sivas, has entered a large alliance with Kurds, Erzurum and Sivas, which, in the first legislature, has been seen in common fate and, in the event of opening this autonomous Kurdish region project in the history of the Kurdish community, with the Kurds, with their pyramids, with all its sheiks, with all the same conditions, and with all the conditions of the people of the worlds, and with which the Kurdish people have been able to cease to be seen in the first legislature. This common future has been seen as important and essential to common destiny. However, after the Liberation War was won, both after the First Assembly's record was fixed, and through the time of the Liberation War and the 24 Constitution, Ataturk spoke of a democratic responsibility for Kurds in his talks, saying that Kurds would be represented in parliament with their own colors, languages, cultures, beliefs, and religious characteristics, and he saw no blame on the fact that it was considered a component of the republic's original elements. However, what remains, especially after 24 Constitutions, is that until then, the Kurdish politics of the republic are not so complicated. Throughout the history of the Republic, Kurdish politics, no matter what social science principles are approached, no matter what scientific rhetoric is addressed, will come to the same reality, which is that it is the equivalent of trying to deprive Kurds of the identity of being a national society in the framework of that crazy shirt, which has been tried to dress them with the dream of being a nation state. Again, this policy has been tried to be carried out by both identity, language, culture, history, as well as methodology, criticism, blood, tears, exile, massacres, but so far it has not been successful. So far, the Kurds have seen their national identity, their religion, their creeds, their beliefs, their culture, to resist persecution without compromise. That's why that 903-year-old scar is still open. Let me be honest with you, the reason why we express these things on the agendas and in every aspect of social, political life and put them at the center of politics is that it is not to scratch, open, or bleed more on the floor. The public wound remains open. In this parliament, which represents the will of all the peoples who form Turkey as much as possible, we carry a common mind, a common fear, to be a salve to this social wound, to apply the ointment, to seal this wound on the basis of equality in this way, and to fulfill our obligation well. Again, dear friends, let's say that on May 4, 1937, only the government of the period, the rulers of the country, did not make this decision in the Council of Ministers. It was based on the Sharq Islam Plan 1924. What was he predicting, the Shark Islamic Plan? In fact, this can also be read as the Kurdish Islamic Plan. One: scattering Kurds in western regions. Two: bringing non-Kurdish islands to Kurdish residential areas and creating islands. Three: weighting boarding schools in the area. Four: He has purposed to force the Kurds into Turkish by making them forget their native language. At its proper time, the prime minister of the era and the president of the Justice and Development Party used the concept of ▪curdistan (Pragmatism) for political pragmatism. Again, Mr. Erdogan did not hesitate to say "catillam" to especially the bloody events of the 1990s. And it came to pass, and he spoke of the return of his name, and again of the revelation of the truth concerning him. Let's know this well, valued lawmakers, that the truth of Kurdistan, not of the 1990s, is to make the policy of blood that has been flowing throughout the history of the republic, or that the massacre of the Class, the massacre before it, the Ağrı, Zilan, Zih Saidi, Koğgiri, Koğgiri, not only can anyone use it as political material, it can't be made a political pragmatism material. When it suits you, you'll use these from the top curtain, and then you'll turn them upside down, especially when the place, the spirit of time, changes. I particularly expect you to support our motion to address what these are based on, by taking the contribution of scientists and scientific circles. And let me finish with a sentence by our Pirim Seyit Reza. I couldn't deal with your lies and tricks, which troubled me/but we didn't kneel down in front of you, so let that be a problem for you. (Applause from HDP rows) You sleep peacefully, your grandchildren have never bowed down to anyone but Hizir. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0044par0330	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. İbrahim Aydemir, Erzurum MP... Here you go, Mr. Aydemir.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0045par0334	Mr. President, thank you. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the motion to establish a research commission, entitled to face the events of the class of 1937-1938 and to investigate all its dimensions, and I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to remind you that my party, who represents a white case that represents a human being, is the most honorable of all creations, that let the state live. I'd like to point out that it's a political movement that has opened the way for freedoms by making the first ones in Turkey in terms of human rights, ideas, and freedoms of enterprise. As a member of a political cause whose politics is based on love and respect for man, which tolerates creation because of the Creator, I would like to record once again that we have not compromised, nor have we ever compromised, from the idea of unity, unity and brotherhood. Mr. President, lawmakers, there are four topics that have been tried to be dictated in the motion to set up a parliamentary research commission and have never been sensitive or intimate with the owners of the motion: a commission for research for social peace, confrontation with the past, facts and construction of the future is being asked. First of all, I'd like to focus on these four reasons. How true and sincere is it that those who choose peace in the face of our nation's unity, the integrity of our country, the integrity of our state, the giblah, the land, the flag, the great nation that tries to divide and break, not from love, anger, pain, blood, feeding, not from life, but from the bloody actions of the terrorist organization that operates only to kill, but from the blood of the terrorist organization who take the stand? It's a paradox in history for those who have lived on the same side as those who wanted to plant seeds of hypocrisy, envy, and hatred among those who were brothers to their death for centuries, to talk about peace, especially social peace. How true are the reasons for those who set up the most violent plans in history to turn the southeast into a blood map, to deal with our brotherhood, to face the past of those who are willing to share today with those who terrorize our mosques at every address expressing our minimum and maximum partners in our schools? I'd like to make a note at this point, my dear friends. That's right, what happened in my class is dramatic. These pictures are in our national memory. The most clear, indiscriminately white case on the political floor, the AK PARTY. It's clear, as in our position, that our way of dealing with past events is clear. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, the executives of our party from all levels have made statements and explained the situation as they arrive. We're about to find out about our President. My class is one of the most painful, tragic events in our recent history. The sources we've been feeding had already told us the truth of the lesson when many of them were big and scared. And we're in a bad mood with the right attitude. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's come to the day after this note has fallen, and let's put forward a fact that we have to face. A real confrontation. A confrontation that has yet to be maintained. The actors are named by name, and the date is very close to March 13, 2016, and the location is Ankara's Kızılay Square. Another live bomb attack was launched, and 36 of our citizens were killed -- one sin people -- and 125 of our citizens were injured. Innocent people have lost their lives from engaged to paper collectors in the preparation of marriage to workers whose eyes have fallen asleep in the fatigue of the day. Tak, one of the artificial arms of the terrorist Seher Çağla Demir PKK and HDP said the action had nothing to do with them. Now let's write that down and get to today. I'd like to take you to an article, my dear friends. It belongs to a certain person, a person we all know, signed by Nurettin Demirtaş. You know, his brother in Kandil, HDP's Chief of Peace Demirtaş, who used his speech to fly so-called doves that were fed and raised in Kandil.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0046par0344	What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0045par0345	It's a letter of praise to Seher Çağla Demir, the live bomb of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) which has approached the passenger bus and targeted all civilians and killed 36 of our innocent citizens and injured 135 of our citizens. It was published in the newspaper New Free Policy, one of PKK's European publications, which praised the killings of these civilians. Look what he said in that article: After the first action, Ankara was turned into an impenetrable fortress, but couldn't be stopped, it succeeded. That's why they got shot in the head. Nature has followed Zınar Raperin, who deserves to be called the most conscientious revolutionary of mankind, who shot the genocide in his brain. I believe Abdulbaki Sönmez, who had previously launched the attack on Ankara, was the one who was meant to be killed by Zınar Raperin.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0046par0346	What's that got to do with us?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0045par0347	It's relevant. You're listening.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0047par0348	You go to funerals.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0046par0349	Don't make a coercion.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0048par0350	If you talk about our agenda, because you don't have anything to talk about...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0049par0351	▪ Seher Çağla Demir is not a suicide activist, but a lover of freedom and life and can be seen by his action to create life, not death. Nature can never be described as a death or a suicide act. Nature's bouncer is Zilan bouncer, a lotus flower that can never be stained with any excuse. In the face of dedication to that purpose, you must at least know how to be respectful. Nature is the face and honor of all mankind; the man to be loved, the woman to be loved, the companion to be loved. Living like nature and going after death like nature are the noblest acts. Now is the time to demonstrate the spirit of resistance and attitude that will make history in the face of fascism, not of your hesitations, and this demon threatens. Either stop this bloody, savage, this disgrace of humanity, your genocide attacks, or do not be surprised that the whole of the youth of Kurdistan has become a natural.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0050par0352	Yeah, you'll get a trial!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0049par0353	Dead lovemaking, that's called necrophilia. A weapon, a threat, a tribute to slaughter, a blessing of terror, whatever you're looking for. When screen protectors like peace and the brotherhood of the people are removed from their mouths, these are the bloody words, my dear friends.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0051par0354	You still haven't said a word. Can you talk about my class?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0049par0355	Which one should we believe now? Your brother's word or your brother's? Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers, face-to-face is a respectable human virtue, an important concept, and if you're honest, if you're sincere in your call to face it, it's an extremely precious call to face it. Because we, the AK PARTI government, know this value of confrontation, we have faced all the freaks left on the dusty shelves of history, including my class, and we've allowed them to face problems. If the HDP wants to face the challenge, then he must come to the present before he throws the ball and goes to the 1938s and face the lines I've quoted as hurting us upstairs and answer without twisting the words. The question is: What does HDP say about praising terrorists who sit back and kill dozens of our citizens in Ankara? On the one hand, do the people have something to say to those who praise live bombs, as well as their brotherhood? What does the HDP say about the brothers who did not put the killings of humanity on the ground in heaven, while the live bombs that covered Ankara, İstanbul, Bursa, and many other parts of the land were blood-soaked? We want to hear protests out loud, not in such a low voice, but we know those objections won't come. While someone is playing the role of a dove of peace under this roof, their brother will applaud these inhuman acts. Mr. President, it is not sincere and honest that a structure, which cannot face honestly today, should carry yesterday on the agenda. I salute you all with the utmost respect.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0052par0361	Thank you, Mr. Aydemir.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0053par0362	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0052par0363	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0053par0364	Mr. President, outside of the agenda, without using any words about the agenda, there is an insult to our party as well as to our co-Chair who has targeted our party and to our research proposal in private, which is a very severe taunt. We demand word according to 69.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0052par0365	What sentence?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0054par0366	How did he do it?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0055par0367	You're going to a funeral, to a funeral!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0056par0368	Who went to the funeral? Learn the difference between condolences and a funeral!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0057par0369	Congressmans, one moment, sir, I'm listening to Mr. Demirel.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0056par0370	Don't bring up the same subject every time.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0057par0371	Come in, Mr. Demirel, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0058par0372	If the HDP is sincere, sincere in facing it, because we're talking about not being sincere in facing the agenda...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0057par0373	Yes, please. You're going to talk?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0058par0375	I mean, I can call you a bunch of teases, a whole lot of him talking. Mr. Ahmet will speak for the group.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0057par0377	Wait, let me make a statement. Members of parliament, the government, the commission, the political party group or lawmakers, may make statements and respond to a different opinion of the person who has been bullied or proposed under Article 69 of the Interior Charter. We are carefully listening to the speech of the minister speaking on the stand as the Presidential Court. I'm here to determine if you're using sentences that may cause you to take words based on sarcasm, but I'm listening to them, and it's in the interest of the Interior Charter to present the basis for this request by the members of the group, the MPs who are demanding to be bullied, and therefore I want details from Mr. Demirel. That's how we practice it all the time. Mr. Yıldırım will speak, Mr. Demirel?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0059par0381	Yes, President.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0057par0382	Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is two minutes. Mr. Lightning, please don't challenge a new taunt, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0060par0388	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ibrahim, these are serious matters. These are not things that come down to being twisted, twisting, turning corners, serious issues, historical issues. Are you sincere? You vote, the archives open.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0061par0390	Open archives.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0060par0391	You vote, you reveal where the graves and bones of those who were slaughtered and executed at that time. You vote, you explain the inventory of the confiscated goods of the exiles. You vote, you get the population reality of those who lost their family as a result of relocation. You're gonna shoot him over the family? Are you raising religious descendants to send them to casinos in Singapore? Is that what you're growing it for? So, look, Ibrahim Bey: If you're sincere about our co-Chair's explosions in Ankara, you'll read the reprimand statements, you'll talk about the personality of the crime, then you won't be able to draw it away. You do not engage nine minutes of your ten minutes with a PKK staff or a YPG staff or a PYD staff that has nothing to do with us. The other thing is, personality... you know, we gave up their rights, everybody's connected to everybody. Then I'll tell you what about the mobsters you've been doing your rallies, hand-to-hand salutes, people's blood baths, your party?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0062par0396	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0063par0397	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0064par0398	Didn't you see the pictures of Metin Ash?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0065par0399	Didn't Rize come to your rally? Didn't he have the same rally as your president? How many events should we show you? So, you, the people who took that blood bath, come tell me you have an answer here.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0066par0401	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0067par0402	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0066par0403	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0067par0404	Mr. President, Mr. Yıldırım has stated in his speech that there is a relationship between the mobster and our party, who is talking about taking a blood bath.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0068par0405	He's got pictures of Metin Ashink. Open up the social media, there are pictures of Metin Ashink. It's new.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0067par0406	It's an open taunt.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0069par0407	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Bostanci, please don't cause any more bullying, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0067par0411	Mr. President, dear friends, we know that the prosecution is conducting an investigation into that person, the person mentioned here. And it has nothing to do with our party. It's a very wrong approach to tender it to the AK PARTY when someone's going out and talking anywhere in Turkey. Second, if we're talking about suffering and dealing with the past, the pursuit of justice, an approach to that would require a language related to that. This doesn't happen in an angry, angry, aggressive language. If what we really want is to reveal what's in history and build the future on it, we need to put a language and style that will help us put it next to it. Otherwise, we'll know it's not. On the other hand, we can talk about our official views here, but everyone knows that the sociopolitic ground on which the terrorist organization is located is also the ground above the HDP. It's not just about Mr. Demirtaş's brotherhood, his kinship, his relationship; it's also about a culture of death, violence, murder; it's about beauty that our friend here talks about; it's about pleasing death; it's about the people who committed murder, the people who raised them from living bombs; it's about what your attitude is, it's said.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0070par0414	That's what our co-Chair said.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0071par0415	Set our position! Here's the picture.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0067par0416	Mr. Yıldırım, it is not only about reproaching, it is about violence, it is about violence raised there that rejects him, openly exposes him...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0071par0417	Do you deny it?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0067par0418	Is there any kind of serious practice in the field about how it shouldn't be? There's no such thing, unfortunately, and I assure you, because it's not happening, people, millions of people don't take kindly to the HDP, I assure you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0072par0420	Is he taking good care of you? What are you talking about? Everyone knows how he looks at you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0067par0421	This is not a good situation for Turkey, and it's not good for you. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0073par0424	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0074par0425	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0073par0426	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0074par0427	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President's statement will suffice. HDP has stated that HDP was not well cared for and that the people did not take good care of HDP (HDP). There's a direct assault on our group.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0073par0428	Here you go. You're going to talk?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0075par0430	Mr. President, is not looking well, I mean, a taunt? Aren't we going to say anything? What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0076par0431	And besides that, there are other statements. I mean, if I were to sort out what you're saying, it's not over. It's about teasing. I mean, about that...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0075par0432	Is this a sacred party? Don't you ever say anything?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0077par0433	Are you going to speak, Mr. Demirel?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0076par0434	Mr. Ahmet will speak.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0077par0435	Mr. Lightning, please. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Yıldırım, please use your right to explain so as not to cause any further bullying.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0078par0438	Don't let him say blood, Mr. President, please, don't let him talk about blood.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0079par0440	That way, your party's MP and that mobster's picture stay here, and I'll keep talking like this.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0078par0441	You said there was a rally!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0080par0442	Mr. Ahmet, there are pictures of you and your deputies and the terrorists, and you want us to put that in there?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0081par0443	He's taking it out on terrorists.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0082par0444	You know, you talked about calm, Mr. Naci...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0083par0445	Then look in the mirror, in the mirror!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0081par0446	Look in the mirror, look at yourself!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0082par0447	Look, when you talked about calm, did you see the insufferability?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0084par0448	Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0082par0449	What I said in my first speech was very clear.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0085par0450	No, you said "mating."
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0082par0451	It's not about bleeding more.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0085par0452	Look, he said again, you don't know anything but blood!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0082par0453	You vote, you come up with this historical reality, we all investigate it together, and yet, not just you, us, but the history scientists, the social scientists who think about it. You mentioned the sociological base. Regardless of which political movement our party shares the sociological base, see how your party sits on the sociological base and axis with those who want to bathe in blood, bathe in human blood from the MP.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0086par0455	Look in the mirror...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0087par0456	Look in the mirror, in the mirror.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0088par0457	Mr. Ahmet, that Metin Ashunk, he's a great patriot and he shapes where he is.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0089par0458	One other thing: You asked us what we think of these things, and if you'd listened a little bit, we told you before you talked about what our co-Chair's explanations for these explosions were.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0087par0459	He's being treated by traitors!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0089par0460	Why do you go through the facts, the things we say, just what you want to hear? That's an example.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0090par0461	It's not an example, it's an example of live bombs.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0089par0462	It's a sign of who your party is on the same sociological axis and who it's doing politics with. Otherwise, if you'd like to know what a politician in Kandil would think...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0091par0463	Not with terrorists, not with traitors!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0090par0464	He's not the traitor he's with.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0089par0465	Yeah, you know, when you were bragging about it, you made a law on July 2014, you opened the way for all actors to be interviewed about it, you said it wasn't a crime in the matter of the law. In this regard, for the sake of the good and the blood of this land, our friends have come and gone many times, their days and their hours. And once again, you've already got people going, and once again you're going, you're asking about what's written in this article. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0092par0468	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0093par0470	Mr. Yıldırım has found a photograph with a member of the Mafia...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0094par0472	Just one picture?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0095par0473	Here comes the second photo, the President's second photo, look, second photo.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0096par0474	Congressmans, one moment, sir, please. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0097par0476	Again, on the grounds that he had a connection to the mob and our party, he also made a mockery of it by showing a photo.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0096par0477	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0097par0480	Mr. Yıldırım, I would expect you to put some more photos next to that photo.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0098par0481	Yeah, so does the President. We'll put him in.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0097par0482	Put photos of HDP MPs side by side, lap, cheek to cheek with PKK militants.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0099par0484	They left at your request, our friends, at your request.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0097par0485	Excuse me, what are those PKK militants doing? What are they doing with guns, Mr. Lightning?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0100par0486	Traitors! Terrorists!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0101par0487	The Prime Minister sends his regards and they're taking pictures. The President sends his regards.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0097par0488	The point is: Look, you told me, and I told you. It's not a matter of respect, Turkey has a wound, Turkey has a problem. You had a role to play, you gave it up, that's important.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0102par0489	Oh, my God! Did we knock over the table?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0097par0490	You have surrendered to the language of violence instead of carrying out a policy that would lead to violence in this country, and every conversation you have here is also the speech of a language that has surrendered to violence.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0103par0491	Aren't you running the country?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0104par0492	We had the biggest violence last week on Wednesday, don't worry, don't worry, don't worry, Mr. Naci.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0097par0493	It's not just bad for you, though. While Turkey has also been doing this, speaking, arguing, missing a bit for everyone. I think if you have the will to distance yourself from your language about this violence, the violence of that sociopolitic floor you're on the same floor, and the way you're doing it, it'll be good for you, and it'll be good for the country. In any case, Turkey will strongly give this country the answer that is required by law to those who challenge this people, but anyone who is under the roof of this Parliament is likely to have the responsibility to oppose violence and to be able to talk about whatever is our problem on such a ground. Speak, but oppose violence in life, not in such dry formal statements. That's what I'm saying. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0105par0496	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0106par0497	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0105par0498	We're gonna keep this going, I suppose.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0106par0499	Mr. President, Mr. Bostanci has made it very clear that we abandoned our mission and surrendered to violence and used this language. I want to talk about bullying according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0105par0500	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0106par0502	Now, friends, look, when it comes to pictures, it goes with the founding president. Look, I'll show you what nice, intimate photos you have with that mobster.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0107par0503	Just yesterday, you were walking through the House called Biji Apoka.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0106par0504	Now, we had a mission, we gave it up; the facts are bitter. Naci Hoxha, look, on February 9, 2016 Mr. Davutoglu is returning from the Netherlands and responding to journalists on the plane, saying that in October 2014 -- he is famous, the longest MGK -- we made the decision there, we decided to end this process. It's not in Dolmabahçe yet. Mr. Prime Minister says you took this process four months before Dolmabahçe, which kept the public so busy, leading the country to the spiral of violence. The Dutch return, February 9, 2016, enter the Internet and see what it says: I instructed the relevant units to make all preparations. I said, "Do all your preparations." The Prime Minister says.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0107par0505	She saw the bitch, the bitch. The Prime Minister saw the bitch.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0106par0506	And shall we go there, with photographs of your friends, I assure you, I also say this to all the families of soldiers and police, and I tell their mothers and fathers: Look, the Prime Minister confesses. On the one hand, he's already made the decision to fight the death of your children while he's still in the process of resolving them. But in this country, we need to go there a thousand times so that no one's nose bleeds, and our friends and I can go back a thousand times just to serve the country's peace and well-being. This is more valuable than the five million votes our party can get. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0108par0509	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0109par0510	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0108par0511	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0109par0512	In his speech, Mr. Yıldırım has claimed responsibility for the deaths as a result of which he concluded the solution process at a meeting by the EC PARTY government in the MGK. It's an open taunt.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0110par0513	He read the Prime Minister's sentences and said nothing more, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0108par0514	Here you go, Mr. Botanci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I hope this is the last time we talk, we'll get through this.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0111par0518	Mr. President, dear friends, we all know the process. So I served as President of the Solution Commission. During that time, we traveled to Asia Minor, went to many places in the east, and went to the west. Some of the people we're seeing are obviously close to the PKK. Why are dams being built? These are declarations of war. There were people who tried to declare it to us as the solution process continued. Why are police stations being built? This is a declaration of war. The solution process continues. At the time, those who are close to the PKK in the field and who are sympathetic to the PKK have given us their opinion on the position of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Enter the websites in the same way that 2015's March, April, May, the process of solution is over; after that there is war, then there is violence, then there is the uprising of the Kurdish people. You will see many statements in the form of the Kurdish people. Why? Because he said, it's not a question. The PKK thought that: "Internal conflicts and developments in Syria and a certain political stance of the great forces here give me an opportunity, I go up a click, I create an actual situation in Turkey." You know very well that's the real reason.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0112par0519	Oh! Oh!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0111par0520	Yes, you know very well, but you can't say that.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0112par0521	Why?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0111par0522	You can't possibly say that.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0112par0523	Why?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0111par0524	Yes, the PKK is the one finishing the solution process. Go and see the statements of PKK's military chiefs.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0113par0525	That's not what the Prime Minister says.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0114par0526	That's not what the Prime Minister says.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0111par0527	Remember what happened during that period, and then in Pain, in Pain. Remember what happened in the pain, as the solution process continues.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0115par0528	The Prime Minister's statements are out there!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0111par0529	After all, the cause of the blood spilled in this country is the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which believes that it will benefit from developments in Middle Eastern geography.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0116par0531	The subcontractor organization, yes.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0111par0533	All those who support that PKK are under that blood, there is no other explanation.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit01spe0117par0535	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0117par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We are continuing our talks on the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. The second speaker in Poland is Gürsel Erol, Tunceli MP. Here you are, Mr. Erol.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0118par0009	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. Today, I received a pledge in favour of a motion issued by HDP People's Party (HDP) on the crimes and atrocities that took place in the former name of the MP, in Dersim (Sunceli), today in 1937 and 1938. I've defined myself as a politician who's not expressing myself politically in speech before, but rather as a politician who's questioning politics and anti-politicism, in solution-oriented rhetoric, and in my own constituency, as everyone knows, I'm an Ataturker and a Republican politician who's a politician in the line. In this sense, what I'm going to talk about here is to inform you about the fact that something that happened in the past, something that happened in my area, something that happened in the past, something that happened in the past, something that happened in the victimology, something that came up again. In my speech, actually, before I evaluate 1937 and 1938, in 1937 and 1938, I would like to tell you where this crime of humanity and its people are at now. Look, statistical studies show that Tunceli is the most educated city in Turkey; the reader rate is 98 per cent. Again, statistically speaking, the city where the deserter is at least a city called Tunceli. Again, according to statistical studies, Tunceli is the most tax-paying city in Turkey, which pays regular taxes after Kopeeli. Again, according to statistical studies, the city where petty crimes are least committed is Tunceli. Again, according to statistical studies, the city where women's freedom is the most intense in the equality of men and women is Tunceli. Again, according to statistical research, Tunceli is the most intense city in which commitment and secularism are brought to the basic values of the republic. (HPP) So, despite such crimes and atrocities, this society is a society that has never been separated from the republic and from the basic values of the republic. And as a member of this community, as its representative, I would like to express my joy as a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. What really happened in 1937, 1938? In a process that began about two years ago, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, the presidents of political parties are in public; columnists, commentators have been constantly in the media and have brought it up, saying it was a massacre, a human crime. The way and the way to find out the facts is very simple: the establishment of a research commission. I mean, I don't see what's wrong with setting up a research commission with historians involved in the process of considering that date in that area. If we can't face our past history, and we can't even establish a commission on the healthy assessment of the available documents, in the sense that the history of good and bad is telling the public the truth, then what is the reason for our presence in Parliament? Look, in 1937 and 1938, the speakers and commentators say that the most important reasons for this movement to begin are as follows: 1) They didn't pay taxes. 2) The Tunisians did not serve in that period, nor did they go into the army. 3) They did not recognise the Republic and authority. That's supposed to be motive. It's all a lie. Look, I'm going to prove it to you now with documents. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, 1) In 1937 and 1938, the Finance Inspector was sent to Tucson, and he made an assessment of the tax return rate, and wrote a report. In 1937 and 1938, even at the time of military action, there was 95.40 per cent tax payment in Tunisia. Here's the document. When you enter the Treasury Department website, you'll see this document. 2) The Tuncelians did not go into the army. Enter the National Ministry of Defense's website, and you will see the names of our martyrs from the Russian War, from the First World War, from the victory of Çanakkale to the War of Salvation. Here are the documents from the National Department of Defense's website, documents from the Tunisian martyrs. 3) The Tuncelians did not recognise the republic and authority. See, in the 1920s, the chieftains of the Tunceli tribe were called to Ankara by Ataturk, and the chieftains of the tribe came to Ankara, and visited Ataturk, and the Parliament, and returned to Tunceli after the talks here. I'd like you to look at their disguises. So, the first city to comply with the Law on Clothing in Turkey is the city of Tucson. Look, most tribal heads are illiterate; they all came to Ankara in suits, bow ties, and ties, and so on; they met with Mustafa Kemal Ataturk in Ankara; and you will see this picture of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, because of our devotion to the republic, because of our faiths and our devotion to the republic, and because of our devotion to the republic. (HPP) Because, not only the Tunisians, but all the Alevis in Turkey, all the oppressed, all the outcasts have seen their rights and freedoms after the declaration of the republic and have integrated their lives with the republic. What happened in 1938? Look, in 1937 and 1938, about 13,000 civilians were slaughtered in that area, lost their lives, 13,000...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0119par0025	Who did it? Who did it?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0118par0026	...woman, young, child, old and about 14,000 people were forced to emigrate, and we have 2,700 missing daughters.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0120par0027	Who was in power? Who was in power?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0118par0028	I'll tell you. Be patient. Here, the girls in this picture were given to the dorms and then adopted to military families. Do you know who one of these girls is? She's the wife of Kenan Evren. One of the learned girls is Mrs. Sekine, wife of Kenan Evren, and many of the important figures in Turkish politics -- their mother, Tunceli, is missing. And in whose time was this done? This was done during the single party period, when the state ruled and Celal Bayar had become Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0121par0030	Who else was there? Who else was there?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0118par0031	Who is Celal Bayar? Celal Bayar was the interim President of the Republican People's Party, then the President of the Democratic Party, who acted against the minorities in İstanbul on September 6-7 -- with the same understanding in September 1955.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0122par0032	Who's the president? Who's the president?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0118par0033	So, as you have parallel powers in the state today, parallel structures. If you say, then the parallel forces within the Republican People's Party, which are not a political party, the state itself, were the forces that controlled this right mind, and the forces that were active. These forces have contributed to the execution of humanity's crime.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0122par0034	Who's the president? Who's the president?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0123par0035	No one's anybody's business! We know who the President is! What's with all the Ataturk hostility?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0118par0036	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I don't think it's right for you to talk to each other on this stand, or to insult me. A congressman should be able to express his thoughts freely from the bench, because we are all lawmakers from different political ideas, addressing separate electoral masses. Of course, we will all have different views of politics, different views of problems in the country. Even within the same party, we can think of separate things, as our Prime Minister and Mr. President do not think, what might be more natural, but the important thing is, in the civilized rules, we should all be able to listen to each other, meet in common values and common conscience. This country is not a citizen of the Republic of Turkey more than anyone else, but no one has the right to be a citizen apart from each other more than anyone else. If there are human rights violations in this country, we should all be able to speak up and take precautions. If there really is an illegal practice in this country, we all have to fight for the rule of law. Look, in all our courthouse buildings, behind the judge, there's a statement that justice is the foundation of property. I mean, it doesn't describe real estate, it defines civil rights. Then we should all be able to respect each other, listen to each other, meet on common values. Mr. Deputy President, as a republican MP and a proud member of this country, my request from the AKP Group is that you vote yes to the establishment of a commission to investigate the events of my class. Let history come out, let people face it. If the Republican People's Party has any responsibility, I'm the Republican People's Party's MP, and I know how to apologize to this bench. But what needs to be done is that the culture of compromise dominates the common decisions. Thank you all, my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0124par0041	Thank you, Mr. Erol.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0125par0042	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0124par0043	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0125par0044	We've heard the lecturer. In fact, it was a reasonable assessment, in its general context, but it was not appropriate for Celal Bayar, to refer to a historical continuity called right-wing thought, to the statement that delivered the contract to the EC PARTI, which was considered a representative of right-wing thought today in Turkey. It's an open taunt. I demand word in this frame.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0124par0045	Mr. Bostanci, I don't consider that a taunt. I don't think he made a claim against the Justice and Development Party, so I didn't take it like that. Let's ask Mr. Erol.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0126par0047	Is the AKP on schedule, sir? We're the right-wing party.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0127par0048	Mr. President, I don't want a political party...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0128par0049	Mr. President, you know very well that the AK PARTY is not a very happy party. There's a continuity of politics in Turkey, a history story. Basically, all the political movements represented here today are the continuation of the tradition expressed by Joseph Açarah all the way back to 1904. So, regardless of what the speaker means, it seems to be referring to a continuum and bidding. I -- in good faith or otherwise, I don't know -- just because of the reference here, and because of the intent and the bullying.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0129par0050	Sir, let's ask the clerk.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0130par0051	There's no bullying, let him sing according to 60.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0131par0052	Mr. Bostanci, look, you know perfectly well that you have the right to answer in case there's a political party group picked on. It is not right to take a criticism of the right opinion as a direct criticism of a party group. Let's just say that he brought up a theoretical criticism from the platform of a orator to the left, so if it's not as right for the Republican People's Party to want to speak on the grounds of bullying, then I don't think you should want to say that it's not true -- but I don't think it's appropriate for the Civil Code, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0132par0053	Mr. President, the esteemed president of the CHP has repeatedly spoken of the new CHP, the new CHP. Now, when you voice criticism of the past, friends get angry and demand words, will they not?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0133par0055	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0134par0056	Was there a AKP then, Mr. Bostanci?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0135par0057	Mr. Bostanci, now, I don't have to argue about this, I don't have that right, I don't have that authority.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0136par0058	No, I'm talking about continuity, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0135par0059	I can turn your microphone on for a minute. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0137par0061	Sir, let's look at the party schedules, Mr. President. If it says right-wing, left-wing, it can be considered bullying.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0138par0064	Mr. President, it's not easy to explain and explain historical situations when political polemics are actually involved in considering these kinds of events. This job is primarily for historians, and that's our general attitude. The role of politics is to encourage people to face this historical challenge, and that's what our President has done, and historians can look at history with such daring, that they can face it, and let's not forget, common fate and future, that's the most important element. So I think this motion for research will open up a space within the scope of these political speculations. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0139par0067	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0140par0068	Mr. President, I'd like my word on that.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0141par0069	That's straight-up taunting us, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0139par0070	No, no, no teasing, sir, what sentence did he make?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0141par0071	What Mr. Bostanci has expressed is that our research proposal will cause a political problem. That's a direct taunt, and I'd like to talk about my position.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0139par0072	Mr. Demirel, see, I don't find your reason for bullying the same way that I didn't find Mr. Bostanci's request to be bullied by the Civil Code. However, before you, Mr. Altay has a request for a word, I will make a promise to Mr. Altay, and then to you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0142par0073	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0139par0074	All right, Mr. Akçay, I'll give you my word. Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0143par0077	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, the pain that happened in my class, the adjectives that were done one way or the other, apart from all of them, I would like to say that the trauma of that day, the pain of that day, is one. Two: Nothing can be done in Turkey but scratch and damage the national union. Three: These criticisms are usually made through Ataturk and Inönu, especially in the AKP's field, when they say "School" and "School" (1937-1938). In order to correct this misinformation, the speaker has just made a date reminder by saying, "The Prime Minister is Celal Bayar." But, Mr. Bostanci's love of polemics... I know, love polemics, of course, we don't have a philosophy dictionary with us, but if Mr. Bostanci and I have to make it polemic by morning, we'll do it, but please, please... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...stop doing vote consolidation in politics by scratching these pains. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0144par0084	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0145par0086	Mr. President, Mr. Akçay has requested that he speak first.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0144par0087	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0146par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we feel that we need to address the issue by setting up the cause and the outcome, and we need to keep it in context. For one thing, we don't think that the events of this class have anything to do with religion or ethnicity. So, both the Turkmen and the Kurds and Alevi and our other people were living in Dersim. The problem stemming from this feudal structure is also a problem that evolves from Ottoman to republic. It's sociological, geographical, historical, of course, there are reasons. It's hard to believe that those who take this matter into their own hands aren't actually questioning the order of the feudal tribe. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In fact, this should be questioned. I wonder if they're actually defending this feudal tribal order. Because these feudal tribes saw that the republic's regime would harm its own feudal interests, there were many incidents, both in Ottoman order and in harmony with the republic. Citizenship regime, law, status, this feudal order, the structure had objections, even though it was not accepted. To schools, to education, these tribal Aghas, those blessed, blessed men who were given a number of edifices and stripes, about the military and about the banditry that took place there... Now, in the republical order...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0147par0096	Mr. Akçay, wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0146par0097	I mean, I'm almost there. Here, I, Celal Bayar, rest my words with mercy.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0147par0099	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0148par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. President, this is important. Not facing the massacre of my class means not facing what happened today. I expressed it at the beginning of my speech. Why is the government running away from the establishment of a research commission on this important matter today? He's afraid to face it. You need to see these. This will all go down in history. Facing history is also a name. Right now, there are memorial programs for the massacre in Dersim. For two days. There's all kinds of foreign participation in this memorial program, and the lecturers are watching us right now. In my lesson, Kurds, Alevis, were slaughtered, executed, and all the people who were exiled, in particular, women were either exiled or married to others, and if we express it to others, we need to expose the general events. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And from the point of view of my lesson, this means that the bones of those who were slaughtered were once again required to emerge and face this process, so if we're sincere, let's all say yes. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0149par0107	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Against the proposal, Yilmaz Bronze, Bart's MP. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0150par0114	Mr. President, I've been promised against the HDP group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. First, yesterday and the day before, we were shaken by two martyrs in Bartin. Sinan Oruç from Kumluca Kirdeş village of Ulus district of Bartın. And the next day, in Hakari Shemdinli, our brother Ayhan Erdogan from Bart's village of Kozcık Eyüpoğlu was betrayed. From here, I ask God's mercy to our martyrs, my condolences to his relatives, his family, and our nation. I want to repeat from here that I condemn terror and those who stand behind it with violence and hatred. Those who support terrorism will answer before history, before our nation, and before God, the Lord of God. Our people are aware of the dirty game that has been played, and he will not give these games a chance until now, nor will he ever again. Once again, I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs. Again, last week, I spoke here in a motion to investigate the legal and political dimensions of the Ergenekon case. In that speech, I stated that there were requests from different sections of the case. I've stated that one of these interhillic demands was Erdal Doğan, wife of CHP MP Selina Doğan. Ms. Selina had a request at the point where a correction would be made here. There, of course, Selina Hanım's wife, Erdal Doğan, was an intermediary lawyer in the Summit Press case. The Summit Publishing House case was later merged with the Ergenekon main case. When I used this phrase, I spoke of the person and institutions who had asked for an intervention in the Ergenekon case, regardless of the main case and the combined cases. And I want to fix it right here, on this occasion. As for the HDP group proposal: The group's proposal is requested to face the events that took place in Dersim. 1938 and to set up a research commission in the Parliament. In earlier times, there were motions for research in this way, where there were talks. Similar conversations have been made, polymixes have been tried, different ideas have been expressed, the prime minister of the country later passed through the Democratic Party. There have been criticisms, there have been questions asking, "Who was the President of the World?" Now, of course, when we try to investigate the President of this era, the Prime Minister of this period, we can't get the right results, so they'll also ask: "Who is the Minister of Interior, and which municipalities, which parties, which municipalities, continue to give their names to the parks?" So I just want to make it clear that we're not going anywhere with these polemics. In this regard, the state of the Republic of Turkey has shown courage in the power of the EC PARTI and we must face our history. In that sense, if anyone wants to do research, the Prime Minister's archives are open. It's now possible to find out who the perpetrators are, who their victims are, in the prime minister's archives, not in secret. Therefore, it is primarily the duty of historians, of course, but the power to open the Prime Minister's archives to anyone who wants to investigate it is the power of the EC PARTI. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY has made a strong decision on political taboos, historical taboos, issues that cannot be questioned since its establishment and its arrival in power. Nothing is covered up in the AK PARTI government, which believes that those who can't face their history, the dark spots of their history, the ones who can't face them, the ones who can't, can't build a good future. Because the AK PARTY believes that this country can't face the past, its history, its taboos and its fears, its unknowns, that its growth, its strengthening, its becoming one of the world's leading countries. For him, in our 14 years of rule, rejection policies, especially the southeast issue, have been eliminated, denial policies, nobility policies are almost zeroed out. It is not right to make current political polemics over the class massacre. There's a lot of research that's been written about class events. The similarities between today's events and events in the past may not be accurate. For those of you who want to do research on this subject, the prime minister's archives have also been opened to those who want to do research. It is possible to find who were responsible for the incident and who were the victims, in the archives with their documents, with their evidence, without any discussion. There have been reports of Dersim. There have been laws made concerning Dersim. There are instructions given by those in charge of the period, there are decisions made by the Council of Ministers and there are relevant documents. Without being disturbed by these documents, no one should avoid facing these events, which are clearly responsible for the documents. The 1921 Constitution is a Constitutional framework after the Liberation War, a Constitution of 24 articles, to mention the issues mentioned in the research motion. This Constitution has been established in our history as a constitution that gives more authority to local governments, in our history of constitutional law. Of course, it is not necessary to perceive this in terms of autonomy, for the authority given is to strengthen local governments in that day's environment. When we look at the 14-year period of the EC PARTI rule, with the amendment to the Law of Municipality, with the transformation of the municipal legislatures -- including members and president -- the changes in the Metropolitan Law have been strengthened at a far higher level than the Constitution of 1921. Therefore, it is not right to perceive the powers vested in local governments in the Constitution of 1921 as a freeloader. The class events have nothing to do with the demands of autonomy by local governments. The research motion is trying to establish such a bond, and I want to point out that it is not right to establish it. It's about not confronting our history. In this regard, Mr. President has already made clear statements during the prime minister's term, explaining that the state may even apologize in these matters if necessary. In the 24th term of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the petitions of victims related to the Dersim incidents came to the Proclamation Commission. The petition board also established a subcommittee at the time. Nearly 150,000 documents have arrived at the Subcommittee of the Proclamation Commission. In this regard, the Council of Appeals is continuing its investigations. In addition, the Subcommittee Commission has both requested information, documents, and has listened to some witnesses. It's a human rights issue. If there is a human rights issue that has occurred in the past, then the commission in the Turkish Grand National Assembly for investigating this is actually the residency commission. The Turkish Parliament's Human Rights Review Commission is the specialisation commission on this issue. So, instead of setting up a research commission here -- three plus a month -- instead of investigating this matter over the course of four months -- again, concerns are not enough, the Prime Minister's archives are not enough, documents are not enough. If we say so, then the Turkish Parliament can be reviewed in the Human Rights Commission. The Turkish Parliament's Commission for Human Rights Review is a commission established by our special lawmakers, and its powers are broad. Therefore, I believe there is no need for such a commission when there is a commission with greater authority than the research commission. On our agenda, we also have a draft on the Work Law. That's why I say I'm against the group's proposal, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0151par0128	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. I submit the proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0152par0132	Request roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit02spe0151par0133	There's got to be a roll call. So I'm going to do the roll call. First, I will identify the presence of the MPs in the General Assembly: Mr. Altay, Mr. Akar, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Erol, Mr. Akaydın, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Blackdeniz, Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Arı, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Bektataşoglu, Mr. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0151par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the People's Democratic Party Group, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday/5/2016 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. On 8/3/2016, the Council for Parliamentary Research (341 rows) was given to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 8/3/2016 to investigate the problems of amateur sports clubs and to determine the solution proposals. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations on Wednesday/5/2016 and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal and against it, I will make a pledge to two members of parliament. The first speaker in his favor, Haydar Akar, Alderman of Bigeli. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0153par0026	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have a request to ask you, please leave those who don't want to listen, and please don't let the General Assembly interfere with their listening friends; let's leave standing conversations, Mr. Secretary, and you too. Then we'll get a chance to tell the citizens and our friends about this. Thank you. Yes, I've filed a motion to investigate the problems of amateur sports clubs, and we've brought them here. Before we start this, you know, the finals are being played in all the sports competitions we call the end of the season, where champions are assigned to every major in the various leagues; one of them is Bigelispor. He went from the Regional Amateur League to the professional league, which was registered after his play-off game last week. As we look at the story of the Bigelispor, we are a sports club founded in 1966. In the 1990s, many players may come to mind in Turkey, including our dear MP Saffet Sandzakli, who lived in the ranks of the mp. Again, the Super League adventure began in the 1990s and won the Turkish Cup twice in the process, with the latest Turkey Cup, today's AKP Metropolitan Mayor, who gave no support to Kopelispor, raised his hands in the air, lifted the cup and took a tour of the city on the open bus. But if you look at the point where the Bigelispor is today, we have to talk about it because he's from the amateur league of bal to the professional league. By the way, I'm celebrating every team that's ever been champions, and I wish them all the best, no matter what majors they've got. Yeah, I think we should take a look at the status of amateur clubs in Turkey. We all see that they're really pathetic. Again, there are 13.867 amateur sports clubs in our country, according to the sports directorate's 2015 data. There are 13.867 sports clubs, not football clubs, but wrestling clubs, swimming clubs, volleyball clubs, basketball clubs. This might sound big to you, this is 13.867, we have 3,700,000 amateur athletes registered to the sports club; there are 3 million 700,000 registered athletes registered in 78 million populations. We're dealing with a number that doesn't find 10 percent when you're compared to the population. So, how is this business in developed countries, I'd like to give you an example or two: for example, there are 165,000 amateur sports clubs in France, which are very close to us. Look, we have 13,867, 165,000 sports clubs in France. We have 6,430 people at 1 sports club, only 333 at 1 sports club in France. The numbers are really interesting. Well, when we look at the 17 million - people in the Netherlands, we see that there are 36,000 sports clubs, and there are 417 of them. I repeat our number: 6,430 people to a sports club. Why did I say those numbers? If we're talking about violence today, if we're talking about terrorism today, if we're talking about drug habit, alcohol habit, the high rate of our children, our young people going down the wrong path, the height of crime, one of the effects is the lack of amateur sports clubs. Of course, it's not a single tool to prevent such crimes, it's an amateur sports club or amateur athlete, but it's usually one of the factors you see when you look at it. What happens if you try to walk with so few sports clubs? I think crime rates are particularly high for young people in Turkey. Now, that's what amateur sports clubs are all about; we said there's 13,000 of them. 13,000 sports clubs are a disaster, all in debt, all in debt, more or less. It's all on the backs of the president or the managers of the sports club, no matter what they're in, the government has nothing to do with it. I'm not just saying this at the point of access to resources, or at the point of the state's contribution, but look at your cities... now, the AKP government thinks of sports as football and makes football fields, such as Sakarya and Schepeli, making sports spaces of 33,000 people at two points very close to each other. Neither city has a team to play in the pro leagues. In fact, even one stadium would have sufficed. At the cost of 120 million TL of the other stadium, amateur sports clubs could also be supported in 2 cities, 3 cities, 4 cities.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0154par0034	Mr. Akar does the living room, the gym, the youth center.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0153par0035	It's never done like this because what you've done is just transfer and show off. When you enter the facilities of amateur sports clubs, you see that there is a real problem with cleaning. Again, you see that amateur sports clubs have a supply problem, but you see that these problems can't be fixed. So, what did the government do? We've actually passed a law in the 24th term, even though it's in your election declaration from the local authorities -- the AKP is also in the 2002 election declaration -- that amateur sports clubs and amateur athletes will be given more support.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0154par0037	Yes, we do, dear.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0153par0038	...a thousand-to-two shares of the municipalities' budgets were predicted during the 24th term, but there was another problem, the sports clubs that the municipalities had. I'm not saying this as the AKP municipality, another political party municipality. On one hand, it's a process that runs entirely on its own terms, with the resources of its president and its managers, and on the other hand, it's a sense of municipalism that allows the municipality to use its own sports club as an equal share to amateur sports clubs. Again, this share is used in other cultural services. They need to give up this wrong right now, and they need to split their share of amateur sports clubs, that municipality's own club, or cultural services directly into sports clubs. One of the most important problems is that they can't find sponsors. In fact, there is sponsorship in the Tax Act, but this is not an option for sports clubs that do not share the same view while transferring them to friendly and friendly sports clubs, amateur sports clubs.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0154par0040	Yes, he's well-known. He's known for the project, Mr. Haydar.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0153par0041	Another problem for sports clubs is transportation problems. So when they're going from a city to a city, or they're going from a county to a district, they're having a huge problem with transportation, and the municipalities are splitting up their positions again as allies and friends, amateur sports clubs; this needs to be resolved in some way.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0154par0042	No, they're giving it all away, don't do it! The municipalities provide transportation support.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0153par0043	One of your biggest problems is license and visa problems. Look, there are at least 20 or 25 football players on a football team in an amateur cluster. Visa and licensing costs are about $1,000; they may have to use the budget they spend in a season, only for visas and licensing procedures. As for infrastructure, okay, yeah, you do stats for professionals, you do openings there, even with citizens, audiences, and they're afraid to open with their groups, and they bring their own militants, their political party militants, and they make short passes in public, but no one eats that, too. So I think the infrastructure problems have reached high levels. Again, these trainers agree that trainers are inadequate. They say the trainers have not received the necessary training, that the Football Federation or the country's federations have not shown interest in the work. This needs to be organized. The personnel who will provide health care in the field are actually based in the provinces, founded by amateur sports federations. Despite the fact that the Ministry of Health has claimed responsibility for this, they do these jobs by securing financial resources.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0155par0047	No way! The new contract has been made, and the Department of Health has signed with the Department of Sports.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0153par0048	So, amateur sports clubs in the region, federations, do they get a penny from the government? No, they don't.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0155par0049	It was mud, fields, fields, mud, Haydar!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0153par0050	They don't get a penny and they support every amateur sports club in town.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0155par0051	There was no hot water in the dressing rooms, so tell me!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0153par0052	Now, my dear friends, we really need to settle this debt business about amateur sports clubs.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0155par0053	In no time has the amateur ever been so supportive.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0153par0054	In this regard, despite our agreement with the Minister of Finance in the 24th term and with the Minister of Sports, we failed to pass this law in the 24th term, despite our agreement with Othman's love Bak. Amateur sports clubs are staring us in the eye.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0156par0055	I'm supporting you, Mr. Haydar.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0155par0056	Yeah, we're supportive.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0153par0057	Come on, let's get this law out of the way, get the amateur sports clubs off the hook.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0155par0058	We're supporting the amateurs.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0153par0059	Again, in the name of amateur sports clubs, they've had their own monopoly for maybe 40 years, 50 years, on behalf of the municipalities, on the Treasury, on the land that they paid for.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0155par0060	They were playing in the mud field, and now they're playing in the field. It was raining in the halls, dripping down, and now they're playing in new halls.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0157par0061	Mr. Bak, please, sir, please, this won't happen!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0155par0062	But sir, he's not telling the truth. We see the halls, we sing the old days.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0157par0063	Is there such a procedure, sir?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0158par0064	If you support our proposal, our proposal, we'll free you from this burden of debt. But I'm telling you something serious: really, he says that our young people need to be supported by our sports clubs in order to get rid of alcohol, addiction, bad jobs, terrorism, and to get them out of there, and he thinks you're going to vote positive, positive, and I give you all respect.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0157par0067	Thank you, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0159par0068	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0157par0069	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0159par0070	Mr. Speaker, speaking of my name, I'd like to inform you that we've been doing a study in the past period.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0160par0071	Get him on the books from here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0157par0072	I'll turn on your mic, please. Mr. Look, you wanted to give me information, which means it's the 60th article, come in for a minute.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0161par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. The valuable speaker explained in his speech about the problems of amateur sports clubs. I know how amateurs used to be. I also served in the Istanbul Amateur Sports Club Federation, I also served as President of the Wrestling Federation, when there were sports in the mudfields...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0162par0078	Well, there was Turgut Ozal, so don't get it wrong.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0161par0079	...now that the grass is being done on the field, we're seeing the status of the gyms. The problems of amateurs have been taken steps to resolve, and in recent years, the city's law has been introduced, and significant steps have been taken at the point of its use. I'm in favor of increasing the number of amateurs, the number of clubs; that's right, I agree, we need to use our amateur clubs effectively to get our young people to work out. But, he didn't do anything. It's not true to say that there were good things done for sports in Turkey, especially for amateurs. Just last month, the health department and the Department of Sports... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a deal has been made between the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Sports has been agreed to allow young people to exercise in schools, and Turkish sports will grow, improve, and hopefully succeed in the Olympics.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0163par0082	Thank you, Mr. Bak. I know how stressful amateur sports can be, and I've been the founder and president of Istanbul's Treasuryport. We're here as the Presidential Court of amateur sports.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0164par0086	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0165par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0163par0088	Congressmans, sir, there is no such procedure, no. Since Mr. Bak had mentioned his name, naturally, I promised him his place for a minute under the 60th article.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0165par0089	Mr. President, the speaker...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0163par0090	One moment, sir, before you, Mr. Akar stood up, I'll listen to Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0166par0091	Osman Bey claimed I said nothing was done. I didn't say it like that, I want to repeat what I said, Osman Bey didn't understand. If you'll excuse me, according to 69...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0163par0092	Thank you, Mr. Akar, it's been filed.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0166par0093	But, no, sir, according to 69... I didn't do anything...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0167par0094	You can ask Haydar Bey.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0163par0095	No, Mr. Akar, if you'll just tell me what a taunt is.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0166par0096	He says I'm saying nothing's been done. Actually, I've told you a lot in my ten-minute speech.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0168par0097	It's done. You're saying it's done. A lot's been done.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0166par0098	But I don't know what was done, what wasn't done...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0169par0099	I mean, he meant something to you that you didn't say.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0166par0100	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0169par0101	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0166par0104	Yeah, if Osman had been as interested in this as he was screaming and talking, we'd have solved the problems of amateur sports clubs now. Again, I've made a new taunt for you, Mr. Osman. Indeed, if you had been as interested in these matters as you have been in this platform as you have been in the 24th term, perhaps we would not be talking about these problems today, as we have agreed to. Yeah, 14 years... you don't have to go back, you're old, too. We don't go back like this... we don't do rejections, you deny your 14-year history. You've been in power for 14 years, and grass from mud fields, carpets... and when you look at them, we see that none of these facilities are made with government facilities. Guys, a couple of little samples, a couple of little facilities don't solve these problems. I just told you that there are things at the root of problems that need to be solved, what's going on. Let's make an effort to solve these problems. You're not saying this, you're referring to the past, even though we say what needs to be done in the slightest criticism. Yes, this past has been spoken of... for sixty-five years now, because of my lecture, we're from that tradition, your group's deputy president. He said, "We're from that tradition." He cost them sixty-five years. You don't just cost yourself 14 years now, you come from the same sixty-five-year tradition, and even if it wasn't done, you didn't do it, your grandfathers didn't do it; that's the way to look at it. You embrace history when it comes to your work, and when it comes to your work, you reject it; it doesn't exist. So what's to be done here is, like I said, was anything done? It's been done. We passed a law in the 24th term -- I'm telling you -- that there used to be only help from local governments as clothing and eurasam, and now it's envisioned financial aid. I'm also saying that this grant is 1.2 in a thousand, and it's 1.2 in an underprivileged thousand, but the municipalities are using it as they want, not using it as a contribution to sports clubs; I'm trying to make it clear. I want to fix this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0170par0110	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Dear Sugar, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0171par0112	Mr. President, when the speaker spoke on the stand, he spoke of the Bigelispor, and the mayor of the city did not support Bigelispor. I want words according to 69.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0172par0113	No, they lifted the cup. I didn't say anything, I didn't pick on you. You didn't lift the cup? Okay, that's what I said.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0170par0114	No, Mr. Sugar, the fact that he's brought a review of the Alexandria Metropolitan Municipality does not give you a say in Article 69, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0171par0115	Well, I'd like to make a statement on that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0170par0116	Here you go. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0171par0120	Mr. President, first of all, I want to thank Mr. Haydar for bringing this up, for bringing up Bigelispor. I know how much help has been made as the Bigelispora Metropolitan Municipality, and I don't need to spill it here one by one.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0173par0122	I'll tell you one by one.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0171par0123	But I'd like to bring up something about the Bigelispor. It was donated by the municipality to build a facility. After that, there was a fundraising, fundraising, and a plant being built on the site that was donated. The facilities were built, but it turns out that all of these facilities were taken over by a foundation called the Bigeli Education Foundation (KEV), where the Bigelispor was a tenant, and in that sense, the location of Bigelispor was displaced. This needs to be resolved as soon as possible. I'm saying this place needs to be taken from the Alexei Education Foundation, KEV, and returned to Kokelispor. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0174par0125	Thank you, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0175par0126	Mr. President, some of what Mr. Ilyas told you is true, some of it is wrong. Let me fix it for you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0171par0127	I've been briefing you, Akar.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0175par0128	Today, the mayor of the capital city, the governor of Kevin, the member of the KEV, the bureaucrats of the city again; these are required members, and other members of the city. Yes, KEV facilities are Bigelispor facilities; I agree, there's no problem with that, but I know very well that those who remove the Bigelispor's cup don't help Bigelispor from the official channels, but by transferring it into someone's bank accounts, Mr. Ilyas.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0176par0130	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Imam Taşçıer against the proposal, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Stonesman.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0177par0137	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Sports is the name for all physical actions carried out individually and collectively, within the framework of certain rules. This definition can be improved even more, and that's how I wanted to explain the shortest version of it. In time, the Olympics were organised to allow people, cities, regions, states, people to approach one another. The sport, whose primary goal is to raise a healthy society and to bring different cultures closer together, has also been made an effort to serve internationally-sized peace, dialogue, especially in the early 20th century. In Turkey, political violence has been reflected in the bleachers and in the fields, with the polarisation of society for reasons of power that are not important to sports. In particular, in the Kurdistan provinces, the sport has been exposed to racist, fascist, monogamous practices, which have not been paid proper attention to the development of sports, which have been developed by its own scarce means. What was done to the Diyarbakır team, Amedspork, shows the size of the sport. Turkey, which is developed as a field of political tensions, rather than an interventionist fan character for success, has become an area in which the language of violence is used every day to deepen racism and discrimination into social normality, as a result of wrong practices by the Turkish Football Federation, particularly by the authorities. The unfair, unlawful and unacceptable practices of the Turkish Football Federation against Amedspor are the clearest indicator of this. Adspor has been punished on grounds of water, such as ldeological propaganda, non-gentlemanship. What did he say to get this sentence, I mean, it's unsportsmanlike, ideological propaganda... what did he say? Amedspor had opened a banner: "Let the children not die, but let them come to the game. This is the sign. This word, no matter what country they say in the world, is a word worthy of reward because sports is for the health of society, and children grow healthy if they come to the game. Another punishment was given to Amedspor: Amedspor's athlete Deniz Naki made the mark of victory, raised his hand, and was sentenced to 12 games for it. Well, other people make Rabia's mark, and one of them makes a grizzly sign, but they don't get punished. It's a one-sided app. Again, Amedspor, two weeks ago -- not far, two weeks ago -- when he defeated the 2-1 Ankara Force in Ankara, all of the executives of Amedspor were asked to be lynched, all of them injured. Another sentence: On the grounds of ideological propaganda, three points have been deleted to prevent Amedspor (Amedspor) and Amedspor (Adspor) from going to an upper group, which has been sentenced by the Turkish Football Federation Disciplinary Board as a whole. In addition to racism and discrimination, another problem with Turkish football is infield and outfield events. Football and other sports activities of the Kurdish provinces, which have been blockaded under the name curfew, face a great deal of challenges. Another striking example was that during a national match, the protests were heard from the bleachers during the massacre of our citizens at Ankara Station. This is remarkable in terms of dissolution and danger. Almost every football match is held in the atmosphere of potential violence. The government's faults in sports policies are great in the creation of this dark painting. Instead of solving problems related to sporting activities, the AKP's government wants to collect political rants in this area. The AKP, which has been in power for 14 years, is responsible for all the conditions of sports both positive and negative. What must be done in order for the sport to be healed? Let's make some suggestions here, aside from our criticism. In educational institutions, athletes and fans of all ages should be given trainings to help win the spirit of ▪fair playbook. In parallel, teachers, administrators, referees, coaches and trainers should be subjected to the study of awareness of violence in sports. In order to create a culture of sports, effective studies must be done. From here, successes can be achieved in the way that sports can be made into a way of life, in the way that sports can be made a part of life, in the way that sports can be used as a part of education, in the way that children meet all branches of sports, in the form of physical characteristics, in the way that children can be introduced as a part of education, and in the way that they can be part of education. It is possible, however, not with termical policies, but with long-term plans for the future. The use of power on federations, especially as an element of pressure, and the efforts of the federation to intervene and govern autonomous structures, naturally, is discrimination among the federations. The political institution, on the other hand, has to look after international norms and make legal arrangements for the development of sports majors under the leadership of science, manage them administratively, and give them a share of the budget. Sports must be supported by its own experts and direction. Sports-related sources will help to work out and make it useful, especially after the performance of large masses is done independently of the measurements of success. Amateur sports must be supported and opened to new areas for sports in neighborhoods and villages. Sports must be performed in the name of brotherhood, peace and dialogue in the fields, free of militantism, sexism, nationalism, and similar monotheist, racist thoughts. I made a commitment against this proposal as per procedure, but I would also like to point out that we will vote in favor of this proposal. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0178par0153	Thank you, Mr. Stonesman. In favor of the proposal, Saffet Sandzaker, Alderman. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Sandzak.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0179par0157	Mr. President, honorable MPs and the Turkish nation watching us at the head of their television, I salute you all. There's been a motion to investigate the problems of amateur sports clubs, and I'd like to say a few words about that on behalf of my party. I salute you all again. Of course, while we were just talking about how sports is powerful among the speakers, how effective it is... if we can get Turkish sports to a certain place, I've told you how to save Turkish youth over and over again. If we can immunize sports, sports culture, and especially if we can develop these amateur clusters, amateur sports clubs, our young people in Turkey can get rid of drugs, alcohol and bad habits, even terror. At this point today, especially when it comes to terrorism, if we can direct our young people to sports, we can keep them away from terrorism. In the early 2000s -- 2001 or 2002 -- Diyarbakırspor struggles to get to the Super League. At that time, the late Gaffar Okkan called me, and he said: "Captain, we have to get Diyarbakirspork to the Super League." The people here have such a request. We're a little weak on social issues, a little weak on sports. I'm asking for your help, and I'm telling him... here, 14 or 15 years later, I can tell from here because he has witnesses. I want two players from Fenerbahçe, and their names are, I want you to give them to me. So I went to those two players, I picked them up at the Fenerbahce Club, I gave them to Diyarbakırspor, and Diyarbakırspor went to the Super League that year. After going to the Super League, he played in the Super League for many years, and there was almost no incident at the stadium, except for small events. I mean, sports is such a thing that football can connect people and improve the brotherhood law. Of course, 14 years ago, when the AKP came to the government, he said he was going to make a new sports law and sports policy, and he did some work on it, but of course we're going to tell them what we're missing, and we're going to tell them what we can do about it.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0180par0161	Did they ever do anything right?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0179par0162	Of course, when this law is being passed, it is said that it will be carried out through local municipalities, local municipalities, and in the local municipal law, 1.2 percent of the city's budget will be spent on amateur sports clubs. Of course, this part is very good, very true -- maybe that ratio can be increased -- but is that how it's been applied? I'm afraid it hasn't been implemented. I've seen things. I'm afraid there are some things I've seen in hiring, hiring, hiring bureaucrats, helping out amateur sports clubs. If you're voting for us, if you're close to us, we're helping you, but if you're not close to us, if you're not voting for us, either you're not getting any help or you're getting little help. So this application is not the right application. Now, they just talked about Bigelispor. Bigelispor, 2008 - I'm in the same league, PTT 1. I was president of the Istanbulspor Club in Liginde -- won the championship, and rightfully, the Mayor and the MPs went up on the open bus and removed the trophy, which was their natural right. In 2008, the Bigelispor was in the Super League, but why did it fall to Regional Amateur League in 2013? Five years in a row, the Bigelispor fell into the Amateur League. I don't remember the year, but three or four years ago, Mr. President, who was then Prime Minister, came to a rally at the Schepeeli, and he said: "The Bigelispor is a legendary team. The city of Kopeeli is a football town. I want a team for the Super League in this city. Well, I can't see the Kopeli MPs from here -- Mr. Minister Fikri Il was led by the head of the Illum, and they formed a team called Kopelispor, who changed the name of the Gulfzpor and a team under the name of U.K. He's in the league, he's still playing. Okay, two. You're going to the game of the Kopeeli Unionspor, which plays in the league, where there are 100 people, 200 people, but Bigelispor is playing in the amateur cluster, and 20,000 people are playing in it. So, here's our congressman, our Kopeeli MP, who says that they've just been helping Bigelispor. Of course it has been done, if you have the capital city and all the counties for 14 years, if you have the minister and the seven MPs, of course you will. So, why did you try to split the Bigelispor in half, and you took out the Bigeli Unionspor?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0181par0165	Are they separatists?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0182par0166	That's because it's a separatist.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0179par0167	Here's Bigelispor, the brand of Bigeli, and in the years when I was captain of the team, it's a team that was on the cover of European sports magazines. He's played in the European Cups, he's won the championships, and he's been chasing championships. So, what I'm going to say about this is that I don't think it's right that you're going to help Kokelispor, Kokelisporpor, Kopelispor, Kopelispor, Kopelispor, Kopelispor, and Kopelispor. Of course, there's a lot of trouble with sports clubs in the amateur cluster. Of course, it's been a little sketchy before the law was made. For example, the Ministry of Youth and Sports helps all the federations in cash, but it's an amateur sports club federation -- it's a small help -- but because there's no help for amateur sports clubs in the provinces, naturally, they can't serve enough in the provinces because they don't have money, because they can't afford it. Of course, one thing I've seen is that an amateur team -- not just football teams -- recently a karate team will go to an interstate, unfortunately, they can't go to competitions because they don't have the travel money and the housing money to stay there or because they're being given a small stay.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0183par0170	They didn't even do that?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0179par0171	These are the issues that we need to focus on and that we need to enforce. Other than that, our brother Osman has just said: "The Ministry of Sports and the Ministry of Health have signed an agreement." The agreement is this: Turkey has about 100,000 amateur football competitions a year, and about 300,000 other majors are averaged in the year. There's never been a medic in health care before in these stadiums, in these competitions. So I wrote here, on March 10, 2016, the Ministry of Sports and the Ministry of Health signed a contract between themselves, and they will send medics to these events.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0184par0173	No, not after that. Well, go ahead, captain.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0179par0174	I just need a minute. Osman teases me every time. I'll need an extra minute. Now, here's the thing: when the Football Federation sends referees, observers, and field commissioners to games in the amateur cluster, they pay for them, but there's a lot of trouble with the medics, so the paramedics -- Osman. Let's do this -- 99.9% of them didn't exist. Now they've signed a good deal, and then the paramedics will come to the field and the competitions, but this is: the course will be held, starting in May, and they'll come to this course, and they'll get certified, and they'll help out in the field as paramedics. It's a good thing. But here's one thing that I can see: you don't have to be a paramedic to attend this course, you can join as a member of any profession. And 15 days of this course. Any one of our MPs can go and take that course, and 15 days later, you can all get a medical certificate and serve in the field. This one's missing, so we're gonna have to do a little something about it.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0185par0176	Is this a healthy arrangement?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0179par0177	It's a little unhealthy in health, so we're saying that maybe we can fix it. In the amateur cluster, teams have huge debts -- Mr. Haydar told the truth -- impossible. The Turkish Football Federation is also not helping the amateur cluster. For example, there's a note in front of me: Bigelispor spent nearly 3 million dollars this year to get out of the BAL league, from the Regional Amateur League to the Third League, so he spent 3 trillion dollars, and the Football Association's aid is $25,000. A moment ago, of course, Mr. Haydar told me the numbers. According to Haydar Bey, we have 3,700,000 athletes, 5 million 700,000 from the Sports Ministry website. I looked at 2004 data in developed countries -- 5,700,000 now, according to the Minister, 3 million 700,000 -- 24 million in Germany, 14 million in Italy, 13 million in France. You know, Italy and France also have fewer populations than we do. Of course, we need to talk about this from here. The last time was yesterday when Minister Sakarya performed the Violence Act in Sports. There's no one here from the opposition. I'm telling the Minister from here, when you do this sort of thing, call someone from the opposition. We're not gonna go over there and make a lot of noise, we'll give you ideas, and then we'll do a study together. If we want to get Turkish sports somewhere, we have to work together. This is not a party matter; sports is a matter beyond parties.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0186par0182	Thank you, Mr. Sandzak.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0179par0183	And thank you for listening to me. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0186par0186	Ismet Uçma, İstanbul MP against Republican People's Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Flying.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0187par0189	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all with respect, love, and conversation. I offer you all a mercy, a mercy language. Congratulations to the last Miraç Kandili, and I pray that the Mirac be the cause of our distress as well. I'm very proud and proud to be the founder and member of a party that looks on the same horizon as our young people, our athletes, our clubs, and our nation.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0188par0192	I couldn't figure out the connection to the sport, but if you could explain.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0187par0193	On this occasion, dear friends, after a few technical matters, I'd like to share with you a few things I need to emphasize. I say that I resent the styles of our beloved speakers, such as the fellow, if he votes, he will do so, if he does not vote.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0188par0195	We can't hear it, even though we listen very carefully.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0187par0196	I think our friends think they're former Turkey's MPs.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0189par0197	Who's that?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0190par0198	Who is it, Mr. Ismet?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0191par0199	Who is he, Mr. Haydar?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0192par0200	Dear friends, the criteria for running the country, for improving the country are clear. For example, a friend of ours, a friend of ours, a fellow speaker, please tell us that before 2002, the situation in this area was at this point, as a bar, after 2002.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0191par0201	Well, you tell me.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0193par0202	Why don't you tell us, Mr. Ismet?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0191par0203	We'd like to hear it.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0194par0204	Dear friends, if a friend of ours brings this up, I'll make an apology to my friend on this stand. So I'm saying we need to be careful. I don't think we should go into hurtful, hurtful tones. I'd like to answer as much as possible in a mercy language regarding the issues referred to by our HDP spokesman, one or two issues, which are not entirely possible. Dear friends, nationalism was classified during the EC PARTY period, one of which was regional nationalism.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0195par0207	Nationalism was also underfoot.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0196par0208	There's no regional nationalism; there's regionalism, regionalism. And what will make you know what nationalism is?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0194par0209	IF there is one piece of data and evidence to prove that the EC PARTY has been a regional nationalist since 2002, this brother is prepared to apologize.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0196par0210	Regionalism is separate, nationalism is separate. Nationalism doesn't do regionals.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0194par0211	You can't, you don't, because old Turkey's memorizations have been altered and corrupted.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0196par0212	You're not good at memorizing. Look, you're confusing the concepts.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0194par0213	I would like to express to my dear HDP brother that before 2002, the period of Kurdish at home and Turkish at school was over. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) You've got to understand that.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0197par0214	What's sports got to do with it?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0194par0215	If that can't be understood and after 2002...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0198par0216	Talk about sports, talk about sports!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0194par0217	Dear friends, we all know of the problems of democracy that our country experienced before 2002 in historical processes.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0198par0218	Are you working out on the stand, Congressman? You're being ridiculous.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0194par0219	Of course, we've all suffered, not in the sense of creating an era, creating potential criminals, but we've all suffered a lot...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0198par0220	What pain did you suffer?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0194par0221	But, my dear friends, let's have a chance to justify these reactions in part in terms of those days, to see a certain amount of justified violence that can never be justified, but friends...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0199par0222	Amedspora was built in Ankara.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0194par0223	...after 2002, how is it that after our President's approach to the east, southeast and Kurdish brothers, after 2002, a man's hand can touch the trigger? You know, it takes a little compassion.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0200par0224	What's sports got to do with it?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0194par0225	About racial behavior. Dear Brother, there have been dozens of Kurdish riots in history, none of the dozens of Kurdish riots are racially based.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0201par0226	Twenty-nine.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0202par0227	For what?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0194par0228	Either his tribe has been seized or his fiefdom has been disbanded or his beliefs have been touched. History will write this: For the first time, the PKK claims to be a Kurdish movement organised by race. But, friends, we and our country have no Kurdish problem, no terror issues...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0203par0229	Do you or don't you? You change your mind every week, I don't get it. A week from now, not a week from now.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0194par0230	...we don't have an Armenian problem, we have a problem with diaspora from Tasnak. We don't have a problem with minorities, we have problems with their legionaries. That's how it's known.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0203par0231	When do we get your valuable views on amateur sports?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0194par0232	After the speeches of my dear Mr. Haydar, sir, I'll give you some statistics.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0203par0233	It has nothing to do with amateur sport.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0194par0234	If you look at our party schedule, if you look at our Tenth Development Plan, and even if you look at the same help that we had earlier added to our New York City Law in 2012, if you look at the statements that our Ministry made during budget talks, you'll see that these are in the context of the renaissance; they're not accurate and they're not the correct numbers. Now, my dear friends, in 2002, the amateur activities of 17 sports clubs were earmarked for $3150,000. I'm passing through 2003, I'm giving you 2009; 913 cabins -- 2 million 745 thousand TL -- I'm not giving it all -- in 2015, sir, the 734 sports club was paid $26,799,500. As for her husband, a total of $9.766 amateur sports clubs have been earmarked for 143,904,037 euros since 2002. The number of sports clubs, 6,035 in 2002, was 14,039 in 2016. The numbers are in the middle. I leave the comparison to my dear speaker friends. Dear friends, before discussing sports sociology and psychology, they have a very important answer to the question they give in Western education, education, education, education, education, education, and all aspects of life, teaching, training, and learning how to think and learn to individuals of the famous Islamic society, Halil Jibran, and our world-famous philosopher Muhammad Iqbal. There's a world of difference between these two insights that I've simply set up, dear friends. Dear friends, sports -- be very careful -- is a very important sociology and psychology that brings together people who have no faith, no social union, no social structure, no social structure, who feel the same way about different groups at the same time, who have so many social differences, and who have never known each other at the same time. Through this, we have the opportunity to free our young people from the snares of youth in the world, based on the unity, integrity, values, knowledge of history, geography, and with the imagination of the future. Dear friends, we are a very rich country, we have a great treasure: our young ones. The world accepts refugees now. In developed countries, populations are dying. At this rate, humanity is about to end. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's really no way to understand that certain groups who can't perceive it when our President says "three children" can sometimes make a mockery of it, that they're really........ x). I wish you all the best to our young, sports club, our athletes, our nation. I offer you all my respect, love, and happiness. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0204par0243	Thank you, Mr. Flying.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0205par0244	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0204par0245	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0205par0246	When the speaker spoke, nothing good had been done before 2002. If it had been done, let them say it, and let me apologize. He made an open taunt of the type. Because the speaker before him is Mr. Saffet Sandzaklı, on behalf of the National Movement Party and before 2002, his government partner is the National Movement Party. I beg your pardon for the bullying.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0204par0247	Mr. Akçay, now Mr. Flying has said, I've even taken notes: If I'm told things are better in this area before 2002, I'm prepared to apologize. He's made an assessment, which means he's made a claim. During the time of our governments, during the Justice and Development Party administrations, Turkey has improved in all areas. He makes a claim in the form of a political assessment. This is the opinion of the political party group, which Mr. Flight is or is a member of. Before 2002, he speaks of a very broad history. So I didn't find any reason to pick on a political party group, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0205par0248	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0204par0249	I mean, I could understand if he said, "We took over the wreckage when we came to the government. Like, if there was something out in the open, I could understand that, but it would be hard to judge a criticism here in a broad frame, in a proper manner, as a taunt, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0205par0250	Mr. President, it's really been -- it's been a bit of a difficult comment with your comment -- and it's been two minutes since they interpreted it. I mean, we could have explained that by now. If you'd appreciate it, Mr. Saffet Sandzaker, we're on the stand, and if you don't...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0204par0251	I'm going to turn on your mike, Mr. Sandalman. I think he's going to talk. Here you go, Mr. Sandzak.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0206par0253	President, we have a request as a group.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0207par0256	Mr. President, before our speaker friend 2002. If there's one thing that's right, it's done better than us. Tell me, I'll apologize too. The latest, because it's current, because it's popular: in 2000, the Galatasaray Football Team took the UEFA Cup, followed by the European Cup Super Cup, followed by the World Cup, and then, in 2002, the Turkish Football National Team became the third. In 2002, Turkey's football team, which was the third largest in the world, fell to the 53rd ranking in the UEFA ranking in 2015. Now, if you remember at that time, the National Movement Party was a ruling partner, but we never said it was because of us. We didn't say it because those in power have to serve. And of course you will own the successes, but when it fails, please accept it. And from the inside of 317 AKP MPs...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0208par0259	Thank you, Mr. Sandzak.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0207par0260	I'm finishing, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0208par0261	Just a minute, Mr. Sandzak.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0207par0262	I'm finishing. A friend of 317 AKP MPs spoke of racism and something else in nine and a half minutes of the ten-minute talk about sports. I don't understand that for him, and I don't understand that either.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0209par0264	By the bylaws, Mr. Sandzak. Three groups speak, one group responds at the same time, because of him.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0207par0265	Please, if any of you friends with any knowledge of sports come forward and talk about this, we'll talk to their friends who speak for the government...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0209par0266	It's the charter, Mr. Sandzak. Three groups speak, and three of them have to answer in ten minutes, so what should he do?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0210par0267	Osman Bey!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0211par0268	Congressmans, please, sir...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0212par0269	We need information about the government's actions, the real information. That's why, if the friends who are going to talk know about it, we'll be informed, we'll be more careful with criticism, and I expect the gentleman to apologize on the stand.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0211par0270	Thank you, Mr. Sandzak. Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0213par0272	Mr. President, this is exactly what I want to say to the speaker of the Peoples' Democratic Party: "We have removed regional nationalism." By saying, "Our party has made an accusation as if our party is doing regional nationalism." This is an open taunt, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0214par0273	Mr. President, if we go with this disease, we'll go to Adam, so no!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0211par0274	Just a second, members of the law... Mr. Toğrül, I listened and took notes: True, I would like to say to the HDP spokesman that... he said, "We've removed regional nationalism." He said, "The following sentences were as follows: There is no Kurdish problem in Turkey, there is no problem in terrorism." For the first time, the PKK has become a race-based organisation. I didn't see any bullying aimed directly at your group.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0215par0276	Mr. President, if the sentence starts to say to the HDP spokesman....... and we've removed nationalism.... if he says...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0211par0277	No, Mr. Toğrul, it's an extreme sensitivity, so...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0215par0278	But, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0211par0279	No, to the HDP spokesman...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0215par0280	...this is clearly our party...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0211par0281	Mr. Toğrül, I'll tell the HDP spokesman...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0215par0282	Mr. President, he didn't give us any accurate information.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0211par0283	I mean, I don't make any sense.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0215par0284	How about that?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0211par0285	No.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0215par0286	What's he saying to the HDP spokesman, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0211par0287	Mr. Toğrül, let's get the transcripts, and let's see, if there's a statement that can mean what you're saying, I'll promise you for bullying. I didn't mean it like that, but I'll see if I missed it.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0215par0288	Mr. President, look, it's not only this, it's a verbal taunt, and it's given the public false information.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0211par0289	I will, I will.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0215par0290	If he hadn't told me, we'd have removed the regionals. If he had said so, I would have understood.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0211par0291	No, look, mentioning the name of a political party group is not an excuse for teasing.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0215par0292	Mr. President, what are we going to do with the following sentence?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0211par0293	I'll look again, Mr. Toğrul, if there's any bullying there, I'll really give you that say. I'll have them brought in.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0215par0294	Okay.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0211par0298	I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0216par0301	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit03spe0211par0302	There's got to be a roll call. In order to carry out the roll call, I will identify the MPs who have requested roll call by name: Mr. Altay, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Division, Mr. Emir, Mr. Engin, Mr. Root, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Akadım, Mr. Akayız, Mr. Akım, Mr. All, Mr. Bozkurt, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Ekici. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0211par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the previous session, Mr. Toğrul was asked to speak on the grounds of bullying. I told him I'd get the reports, I'd look at the reports, and I'd promise him if he had a reason to pick on me. I'd like to say to the Peoples' Democratic Party... that the sentence that Mr. Flight started by saying... is not a direct taunt. However, there is a sentence that Mr. Flight had said before him, and I would like to read it: I would like to answer with as much mercy as possible about the issues referred to by our HDP spokesman. I promise you, Mr. Togurul, because it is naturally directed to the HDP Group after his speech that began with this sentence.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0217par0003	Mr. Imam will speak, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0211par0004	Mr. Stonemaker, come in. Please do not challenge a new taunt when you have the right to answer.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0218par0008	Yes, the speaker tried to set up his speech on Kurdish rights, and he also said: "It was Kurdish during the night and Turkish during the day before the AKP rule. I can't speak my native language in this parliament right now either. Because of World Human Rights Day, Kurdish, one minute in my native language, two minutes of my conversation (x), all of it in the transcripts. 20 million Kurds live in Turkey and cannot receive education in their native language. They have no right to education; they should have primary language education rights from primary school to university, whereas Kurdish should be the second official language, but none of them exist. Plus, he mentioned Kurdish riots. Yes, that's right, there have been 29 Kurdish riots since the Republic. Who said that? It's said by the President of the period, Süleyman Demirel, and it's in the House transcripts. The first Kurdish rebellion, Sheikh Said, began with the republic's association with the republic, or the republic at the time, not giving it the necessary privilege. We can see that in history books and history, one. Second, all matches of Amedspor are discriminated against and racist. And it is said that Amedspor is a Diyarbakir team out of the area. There are slogans out of the Kurds. So everywhere, the size of this racism is increasing day by day. Plus, he mentioned regional nationalism, orator. Yeah, that's right, it's not nationalism, it's racism. I don't feel comfortable anywhere because I'm Kurds, the Kurds have the pressures. It's wrong to reduce this to terrorism. All 20 million Kurds are currently troubled. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0219par0014	Thank you, Mr. Stonesman. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will begin negotiations with the First-place Political Ethics Act and the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Constitutional Commission Reports. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Business Law and the Health, Family, Labor and Social Affairs Commission Report, which is ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with 170 rows. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after all negotiations on the bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. I'm going to read the names and speakers of political party groups who want to speak on the whole bill.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0220par0029	Mr. President, we have a request.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0219par0030	Here you go, Mr. Ironel. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0220par0033	Mr. President, what I'd like to say earlier is that we've learned this bill from the press today that it's going to come to the General Assembly, so there's a ethics in Parliament, a sharing, a partnership among groups, a exchange of information about which law bill will come to Parliament -- perhaps we can tell from our side as the HDP Group -- for the first time we've come across something like this. So, this is the declaration that the HDP Group's liquidation process has already begun, and that's how we view it. This law, for us, is a very important law for workers, for workers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We do not accept that this law, which has been on the agenda for months, should be brought here today without any information, and we demand that this law be withdrawn from the interview immediately today.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0219par0036	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Under the agenda, I have to carry on the agenda. I'm now reading the speakers of the political party groups: Fahrettin Oğuz Tor for the National Movement Party Group, Alderman of Kahramanmaş... Speakers of other political party groups have not yet been reported. He's just arrived. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Yakup Akkaya, İstanbul MP... As the other political party groups state their names, I will submit them to your information. Now, the first speech...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0221par0047	We've reported it, Mr. President, we've reported it, we've reported our speakers.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0219par0048	No, first of all, I said Fahrettin Oğuz Tor.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0221par0049	The more I reported it, the more I said...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0219par0050	No, no. On behalf of the individuals, Mahmoud Kozar, Congresswoman of Şanlıurfa. The first speaker is Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Alderman of Kahramanmarash on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0222par0055	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the MHP Group to make changes to Business Law 170 and Business Institution Law. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation who are watching us on the screens. Before I begin my speech, I must point out that in ten days of terror, only four of us from Kahramanmarash have been killed. In four days, our number of soldiers, the number of security guards, has been killed throughout Turkey. I wish them all God's mercy. As always, here, I hope it will be the last. The first Industrial Revolution, which began in the second half of the 18th century with the discovery of the steam engine, was established by the factory industry, and a new working class was born and a working-worker relationship emerged. The working conditions of workers, including wages, were not interfered with by liberalism at the time, as a result of which they were powerless against the employer. This period is remembered as a time when labor is exploited, the employee is enslaved, human rights and law are ignored. For centuries, large populations of people exploited in Africa, Asia, America are being exploited, and are being exploited in another way today. Except for a few, it is no doubt that today the developed countries have acquired their wealth in the order of exploitation. With the increase of poverty over time, it is necessary to intervene in labor-employee relationships. As a result, the liberalisation period of labor-employee relations has been closed and the period of intervention has begun. By establishing minimum and maximum limits with the individual and collective labour laws they impose, workers have been tried to protect, organised and given collective bargaining rights. With the emergence of new technologies with the Second Industrial Revolution, especially with the emergence of computers and microprocessors, production has changed its location and shape, which has also affected working relations. Today, challenges that the production structure, which embraces the business sector of mass production and full-time employment form, has led to different production quests where they did not respond to conjunctural fluctuations, diversity of products and change of demand. In this sense, the concept of flexible production has appeared to us as one of them. It is implemented in limited areas in Europe and under the management of trade unions. With flexible study, I would like to point out that only immigrants work in dangerous, unappreciated jobs, and in general the local population can't be activated. Dear MPs, actions number 10 and 11 in the 64th Government Action Plan are related to flexible work and private employment offices. Number 10 regarding flexible work and private employment offices. It has been said that arrangements to ensure safe flexibility in working life will be made, that the action will begin on 21 December 2015, that the action will be completed on 21 March 2016, that the way of work that provides flexibility to the labour markets will be added to work and social security legislation, that the legislation will be taken into consideration by the European Union acquisitor and practices, that the problems in the current flexible work system will be addressed, and that the flexible work systems will be developed again after which problems will be developed, in this area, especially in the public sector. Number 11. The full action plan explains that the European Union norms and standards will conclude by reviewing the issue in both the Trilateral Council and other social dialogue mechanisms, in order to expand the activities of private employment offices to include a temporary business relationship. As a result, the bill came to pass. Dear lawmakers, the essence of the bill is flexible work and remote work. With the practice applied in some European countries, because business accidents in some countries have increased in significant proportions, the flexible study in countries such as Austria, particularly Germany, is being discussed today, from what need is born in our country, and this is the question that needs to be explained. In our country today, when needed, is the employer able to employ paid workers? He can get it to work. Can he get a part-term contract to work the worker? Yeah. Can he subcontract? He can. So when you need it, the employer can get it done in many ways? Yeah, it's very easy to see. With all this unemployment, with tens of thousands of college graduates walking around, looking for a year, two years, three years, and not finding a job, can we say that hundreds of thousands of unemployed employees have lost hope? We can never tell. So, where's the trouble? Then what need did private employment offices come from? I'll explain later how private employment offices were born, but first I find it helpful to explain a few things. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share an incident with a friend of mine who visited me a few days ago. We all experience things like this, every day, often. A few days ago, because the weather was rainy, he took three women from Beysukent, waiting on the road, and brought them to Reday, where he learned that one of the ladies was a mechanical engineer, the other was a French teacher, and the other was a sociologist, and he worked in child care in day care. No one knows today that thousands of engineers are idle, teachers are waiting to be appointed, thousands of white collars are unemployed. That's why I'm saying today our country's urgent and important problem is not flexible work. Dear lawmakers, let's not waste our energy on useless business. Turkey has significant problems. Turkey's main problem today is separatist terrorism; one of its most important problems is unregistered employment, unemployment, lack of livelihood, theft, corruption, waste, idleness, lack of justice. He's in serious trouble, either with a job or without a job. All Turkey is restless. Turkey needs more peace and quiet than ever before. See, I say that the bill that was brought in was not born out of a need; it is in the capacity to damage the peace of work; its timing is not appropriate; it is in the capacity to break the peace of work, to increase hostility and unrest, to create new unrest. As I briefly explained above, the bill was not born of a need. The source of private employment offices and flexible work is the National Employment Strategy, which was drafted by the Ministry of Labor and announced publicly in February 2012. The National Employment Strategy has four legs, one: strengthening education and employment relations; two, flexible labour markets; boosting employment in three, women, young people and disadvantaged groups; four, strengthening employment-social protection relations. The most important goal of the National Employment Strategy is the flexibility of the labour market. In this framework, certain-term service contracts will receive prevalence, allow hiring workers through the private employment office, and severance will become a fund. In the end, the employee's collective rights, such as wages, overtime, notice compensation, severance pay, unemployment allowance, health insurance premiums, individual, union membership and collective employment agreements, will go back, that's the truth. These are not the things that make the worker happy. Another goal of the National Employment Strategy is to increase employment for women, young people and disadvantaged groups. Yes, let's increase the employment of women, young people and disadvantaged groups, and I have no objection. With all the jobs available in Turkey, does Mr.-Mrs. need new workers? You've found jobs for millions of people and you're looking for new employees? Your most important duty right now is to not orphan their wives, widows, children, young people. Soon, the number of martyrs was close to 500. Today, the number of martyrs we've given to separatist terror has been nearly equal to the number of 498 martyrs we've given to the Cypriot Peace Corps. So let's not divert our energy. I'm saying flexible work shouldn't be the subject of today. That's what our citizen expects. The citizen's expectation is that terror be put to an end at once. See, the flexible work result is that the worker stands up, and our country becomes the paradise of cheap labor. In our country, where millions of non-verbal immigrant populations live, there will be talk of starving workers. Dear lawmakers, you can flexible the labour market, you can claim that young people will increase women's employment, but I get it, what's going to happen to the employees? What our country needs to do, first and immediately, is reduce unregistered employment by hand. Instead of being flexible, working from a distance, let's do whatever it takes to destroy off-the-book employment hand in hand. If the law is to be passed, let's get it out. We're full support as an MHP. Because unregistered employment is pain, cruelty. Look, I'd like to tell you about another incident that I've experienced in person: during my public service, we went to a two-story women's confectionary store during a local audit mission in a major industrial city. All of the employees were women, so I stayed on the ground floor, three of the ladies I served with went upstairs and returned with four or five women. I found out the ladies are hiding upstairs. In my study of the monthly premium service documents, we found that the five were not insured. The reason they're hiding is because they're uninsured. Who wouldn't want to work with insurance, but unfortunately, these people had to hide, even if they wanted to. What would happen if they didn't hide or complain? It's obvious what's going to happen: pay raise, end of business! There are hundreds of wives who can't be tied to their wives on a monthly basis because they can't fill 900 days or 1,800 days, even though they've been working for years, and there are those who can't be tied to death by three or five days because of unregistered employment. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to point out one more thing about the matter directly: the claim that the law of business is very strict in our country, that the courts are always on the side of the worker. See, I'm saying it's a good thing I'm strict, and I'm saying it's a good thing, because if it isn't, I'm sorting out corporate enterprises and conscientious employers in Turkey, and other than that, the right to work is far behind, unfortunately, and there's no right to do anything but pay. In places like this, you can't talk about working hours, overtime, notices, severance pay, weekends, holidays. The ministry's practices have, unfortunately, gone backwards in recent years. Today, in Turkey, the judiciary has become the employee's sole guarantee. Dear lawmakers, in one business alone, the bonus and tax on five women is the salary of at least two insurance holders. Five women don't have health insurance. We've seen they don't even have chairs to sit on. Five women have little chance of retiring in this situation. They don't even know their names, I assure you. Their exposure has nothing to do with human rights, human dignity. Look, we've learned that the owner of this store has two other confectionary stores. On the one hand, our brothers, who are working in the middle of the city without insurance, weird, timid, afraid, uninsured, and on the other hand, trying to bring bread to their house, even if they're in the middle of the city without insurance; on the other hand, the three store owners, the one who lives in pleasure, the state who has nothing to do with it, the one who eats its rights. Dear lawmakers, at the same time, another friend of ours refused to be audited because he was uninsured when he went to a large factory that produced a fason at the same time, and unfortunately our friend was forced to be hit. Most of the workers at what we call ladders are off the books, they don't pay taxes, they don't pay bonuses. Let's just say, in many places called the workshop, we've seen that there's not even a proper Mr. Lady bathroom. That's the sad truth. I'm saying it's a duty to be a government, to reform those who exist, to record them. I have a suggestion, Mr. Secretary, if you'd like to prevent this from being officially off the record. Let's get the employee to report himself. I'm saying that when we force the employee to report him, we're going to fight off the record very seriously without any effort at all. Here, we're tracking off the books -- statistics -- and we've regressed so much, and I'd like to say that the statements that we've regressed have not been very convincing in society. For these reasons, let's increase women, young people's employment, of course, but let's not hold back from providing the constitutional, individual, and collective rights of current employees, workers, hard-earned workers. Dear lawmakers, what I want to say in summary is that let's not waste our energy in other areas without providing the personal, collective, legal rights of many employees, preventing off-the-books; let's not create new problems, new unrest with all these problems. In Europe it's like this, in Europe it's like this, the European acquish, blah, blah, blah. I'm thinking what's European and what's European. It's all over, and all I'm saying is, are there any loose ends left? Could it be illegal insurance in Europe? Could there be a separate fee with a final fee? I mean, could there be a double-recording arrangement? Can he drink the employee's permission, overtime, holiday vacation, annual leave? Can a worker be activated for ten to twelve hours? Can it be run for ten or twelve hours, especially for free? A lot of other things. The most recent example is the noble rare example, in the middle. Dear MPs, what is the source of the National Employment Strategy? International organisations are the source of the National Employment Strategy. The National Employment Strategy is not national, its ideas are global institutions. In short, in fashion, it is not native or national. See, in the IMF's 4th Review Report, the Dyrectors welcomed the preparations for the comprehensive employment strategy, which brings increasing flexibility and address some structural problems in the labour market. The World Bank's 2008 report states that all elements such as Turkey's flexible policy in the open economic environment have been proposed to flex strict business security rules and to give up employment protection, increasing the level of flexibility of business markets, running non-contracted temporary workers must be implemented together. OECD's 2006 Turkey Review Report (Turkish Review Report) should be removed from Turkey and brought to the attention of unemployment insurance. That's why I'm saying this bill isn't national, original and domestic. The national Employment Strategy is called the protection of the company's competitiveness to ensure the employment and employment guarantee for a worker in a guaranteed stretch of flexibility. It is clear from here that the firm's competitiveness is intended to be maintained. At the beginning of the general reason for the bill, it is envisioned that guarantee flexibility, flexibility and security can be achieved in the labour market together; on the one hand, the flexibleness of the labour market aims to boost businesses' competitiveness and adaptability to changing conditions, while the job and income assurance of those involved in the labour market is intended. The first question that comes to mind here is, will your businesses be the priority, or the worker's? Because if the company's competitiveness is the only way to guarantee labor and employment will apply. The income and employment are indexed to the employer's competitiveness. In the current case, it is impossible to provide, not even the rights of the worker, not even the rights of the worker, in an environment between the employer's two lips, in which the employee's overtime, working hours, annual vacations, holiday leave, notice compensation, severance, even the rights of the worker can't be fully provided, in short, go back, even the individual worker's rights. As structural problems of the labour market in the Strategic Documentary, high solutions in high agricultural employment are high, labor quality is low, labour market is solid, labour market is high. According to the document, high dissolution in high agricultural employment means migration and unemployment from the village to the city, so cities have become cheap labour markets, and labor costs have already been reduced. The flexible model will not contribute to the solution of unemployment. As the document states, Turkey's economy could not increase its employment to the expected extent, despite high-profile and continuous growth during 2002-2007, despite efforts to increase employment in the labour market, but it would not be possible to increase employment, especially if it was considered that economic data was not better after 2007, especially with the flexible model, that unemployment would not be reduced. In the meantime, I would like to say that it is also a positive step towards the violation of the 2,600 supervisors' staff by law passed by the Parliament, but I also say that the rights of the auditors must be reconsidered, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0223par0085	Thank you, Mr. Tor. The second speaker on the entire bill is Yakup Akkaya, İstanbul MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0224par0089	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, the esteemed bureaucrats of the Ministry of Labor, members of Parliament, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party for the general draft of the Law on Change in the Law of the Employment and Development of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, we are faced with a new bill that aims to radically change the working life, that will lead to chaos for us, possibly break the peace of work. What are the laws for? Of course, laws are arranged to respond to a social need. So, basically, what are the work laws made for? Of course, it is done to prevent abuse in working life, to protect the rights and laws of employees, with minimum regulations, in the face of ulterior employers. So, does the arrangement that was meant to be brought in respond to a social need? Is there a consensus on this bill for the trade rooms of the unions we call social parties? No, it hasn't. We observed this discovery and listened to the views of the Turkish Association of Bar Associations of Turkish Medicines on our proposal. In addition, these organizations, which I count, have expressed their thoughts in writing on the commissions. Representatives of the trade union and NGO said this bill would not benefit our country's working life, it would disrupt work peace and social peace. The members of the Commission and the Minister of the AKP have witnessed these talks. Dear MPs, there is no social agreement in this arrangement. If there were, the bill adopted by the Commission on February 24th would have already been legalized. The fact that this bill was not brought to the Assembly General Assembly before May 1st, I think it's a kind idea of the AKP. The AKP did not bring the government before May 1st, in the May 1st, in fear of increasing the social response; it is past May 1st, and they are now bringing it to the Parliament. Dear lawmakers, I regret to inform you that the AKP governments have a political understanding to create chaos, that they have nothing to offer to work life, social peace, business peace. They either do it on purpose or they don't know. I'll give you an interesting example. However, in my case, the president of the confederacy named after him has made no mistake. Because he only responded to the invitation. Look, next week, from May 8th to May 11th, International Business Health and Business Safety Week. Thus, in Istanbul next week, the Ministry of Labor is holding a conference on this. There are also very valuable representatives of international organisations at this conference. In the name of the unions, the president of MEMUR-SEN is giving the closing speech. Now, Mr. President, this is Mr. Prime Minister speaking, Mr. Labour Minister speaking, Mr. Turkish-HD President speaking at the opening, and speaking at closing, MEMUR-SEN President speaking. As I said earlier, the problem is not that the head of the MEMUR-SEN spoke during this Business Health and Safety Week, but I don't criticize him because he was invited, of course he's the head of a large confederation, and he'll come and speak there, but the problem is that I also spoke to him about the working life of the Editor-in-Chief in the service sector in Turkey, where 17,000 workers have been murdered in business killings in 14 years. Dear lawmakers, therefore this understanding cannot bring study peace; this understanding cannot solve the problems of workers; this understanding can never solve social peace. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we all know that when we start buttoning the shirt upside down, we're going to fall. For him, this bill is an arrangement that legalises the sale of labour as a commodity; it violates the rights of the Constitution, 5, 48, 48, 49, and 55; this bill will lead to the exploitation of labour law 2, 7, 11, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 29, even if it is limited, it will eliminate the rights of the labour contract; this bill will destabilise the working life; this bill will lead to the exploitation of workers; it will prevent the use of this bill; it will prevent the use of the Union; it will eliminate the rights of the bill; it will eliminate the rights of the bill; it will eliminate the rights of the bill; it will eliminate the rights of the rights of the labour; it will be removed; it will be removed in this way. Dear lawmakers, business is not just a business of income; it is also a basic right to the individual's community. The worker, his place, his home, his wife, his friend, is a social entity that should be defined. Rental labor with the bill is a worker who has to agree to work without guaranteeing wages, health, social security and union rights. Thus, valuable lawmakers, the experiences around the world have made it clear how quickly the application of hired workers has spread and how they have acquired all the rights. While there are obstacles to unionisation in our country and the working conditions that preserve the existence of high disclosure, bringing private employment offices without any concrete grounds would be a serious blow to working life. Dear lawmakers, first of all, this bill includes regulations for the extension of the period of employment in the tourism sector, under the right to hire workers to private employment offices. When we look at the basis of the bill, all three regulations are essentially flexible to the labour market. They are said to be guaranteed flexibility. It is stressed that unemployment will be reduced, off-the-book workers will be registered, employment will increase, companies will grow, production will increase, international competition will increase, competition can be made with European countries. But when the bill is examined, none of those reasons will be seen as unrealistic. This bill brings unsecured flexibility. When we look at the bill, these workers have no job guarantees, there is no arrangement for the employment of the worker, there is no employment guarantee; there are no workers' wages, social security rights, or regulations for public health insurance, so there is no income guarantee, there is no social security. Precious lawmakers will not be able to retire, even if the year is 60 years or 65 years old, in order for a temporary four-month-old worker to retire, but will be able to meet the condition of 5,400 days only in 45 years. This bill makes retirement a dream for these workers. The bill makes workers the subject of a commercial contract, which has no union rights, no collective rights, unfortunately. This bill also provides full flexibility for employers, while it is based on zero guarantees for workers. This law does not provide security, but unsecured flexibility, as it is said. Dear lawmakers, this arrangement will prevent unemployment. Now, I'm asking you, if no new investment is made, if no new employment opportunities are not provided, will unemployment be reduced? New factories will open so jobs will increase. The first thing to reduce unemployment is to increase investments. If you have left your country untrustworthy for capital; if you have brought war environment, terror environment; if you have turned from zero problems into problems with all neighbours, you cannot convince foreign capital to invest whatever you do. Look, you've announced the incentive package in the tourism industry. Will this bring back thousands of closed firms or will tourists come? They're vague. Here they tell themselves how difficult they are when we talk to our employers in tourist areas. But one thing is clear: because of your foreign policy, our country's tourism has clearly collapsed. So you can't solve these problems just by filing worker's rights, saying, "Let's stretch it out a little bit more." This bill aims to effectively eliminate legal rights given to employees according to labour legislation. It is never a long-term structural solution to expand atypical jobs by narrowing down the existing formal area. Dear lawmakers, for the protection of work rights and freedom, the struggle for the employee's workplace to be defined and not to be run without a rule should be fundamentally fought. That's what it takes to have a state position and a social state. Rental labor will not cure unemployment, but will lead to the exploitation of the labor force. As the bill states, Turkey's labour market is not a strict market. Already, almost all of the flexible work with Job Law 4857 has entered the entire working life and has been defined by a legal framework. At the point where it comes in today, it is tried to create a new flexible working relationship with a remote workforce, without discussing it in public and social areas, and is even imposed on labor unions in this way. Now, to prevent off-the-books. One of the reasons for this bill is to avoid the informality. Dear lawmakers all over the world, the average amount of time hired workers work in a year is three months, and the other nine months, they don't work. In this case, these people have to work off the books to survive. Thus, the situation there creates a statement that only statistics will reduce off-the-books. You're saying that we're going to register agricultural workers who work in household services. Government management is not like running a grocery store. Laws shouldn't be turned into puzzle boards, government resources shouldn't be squandered. See, in 2011, with Law 6111, you made tradesmen in seasonal farming. Under the leadership of the Ministry of Labor, with the participation of many ministries, you launched a major project for seasonal agricultural workers; you took out the system of intermediary and regulations in agriculture. You've transferred a large sum of money from the government's budget to this project. Now, without explaining what the results are, you're handing in seasonal agricultural workers to the initiative of private employment offices without accounting for their success. You're setting the stage for further exploitation of already exploited seasonal agricultural workers. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what if these companies employ the Syrians who will work cheaper? In this case, agricultural workers with nearly a million of them will not be able to find work to do. Then what will these people do? Has this been analyzed? No. We also asked in the commissions, where Mr. Secretary stated that there was no analysis of the impact of this law. These people will come to big cities, start working off the books, crime will rise. What if they don't? The situation in the southeast will become even more dire, the mafia will increase, smuggling will increase. Is there a solution to this? I'm afraid not. Are you going to look at these people on welfare? We've already become a country where 22 million people live on welfare. You, as a government, prefer to multiply it rather than reduce it. That's basically what's wrong. Dear lawmakers, the fundamental change of the bill is to open the way for a contract of employment with private employment offices. In other words, modern labor is being re-enacted. In the 20th century, the aim of preventing labour brokership, which was banned to protect workers, even the main reason for the establishment of the Turkish Employment Agency, is to be abandoned. This bill has a quality that will upset the balance of working life that deals directly or indirectly with about 10 million people. See, this is not the first time this bill has come up. This is a retraction in talks held at the General Assembly in 2003. It was adopted in 2009 in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but was vetoed by President Abdullah Gul. In 2015, he passed the Grand National Assembly, but became a bitch. Members of the law, the bill for rental labor, as it is said, will not make working life a better, more democratic life. This bill will cause chaos, in a way similar to many misdeeds made by the AKP in working life before this. Now will he be asked why? Dear lawmakers, there is no regulation in this bill that the employment will continue before and after the hire of the worker. The worker won't get paid even though he's ready to work when he gets a job or when he's done hiring. The contract of employment will be suspended with the special employment office. The worker will return to the off-the-book zone, forced to receive a living income. The contracting of this bill clearly violates many articles of the Constitution. Moreover, it is contrary to international contracts, and it is contrary to the revised European Social Condition. Dear MPs, I know it's a duty to warn you again that if these provisions pass through the House like this, the Constitution will be annulled due to its violation of the Constitution. Open for this, read the reason for the veto of Mr. President Abdullah Gul, in 2009. Unfortunately, none of the criticism mentioned in the veto grounds has been satisfied. Congressmans, unemployment and the informal economy are very important problems for our country, and everyone wants the solution to these problems. If the goal is to resolve these problems, let's make more permanent and constructive legal arrangements by giving up the rights of workers and workers, and we have opportunities. Look, open up and read the grounds for the Foundation's Law on employment and employment in Turkey, 4837. The reason for this law, issued in 1946, clearly states why such intermediaries should not be conducted by the private sector. Anti-employment, protecting workers and unemployed are the main reasons for this institution's emergence. Today, this function is one of the duties imposed on the Constitution and the state. Therefore, what needs to be done is to strengthen Turkey's Employment Institution. Let's develop the powers and duties of the Turkish Business Agency to prevent the reduction of unemployment and non-region, and make a new arrangement with a joint agreement. We are prepared to contribute as Republican People's Party to this study. Dear lawmakers, this bill is not only about hired labor, it also organises working at home under the name of long-distance work. ▪ Work from a distance is invited to work killings by making work life more flexible. Remote work will also give birth to unconcerned, unsecured work, the exploitation of family labor and child labor. It is also an arrangement that condemns women to work from home and home, prevents women from being visible in their working life. See, this way of working can have other effects. Because of the 4+4+4 system, the girls you took away from school life will have to work here unguarded and unsecured, locked up in houses. Again, with this arrangement, children can be employed in foundations and other places, and their audits may not, unfortunately, be done, and there is not even a measure for them. Dear lawmakers, the last problem I want to address regarding this bill is the extension of the equivalence period in the tourism sector, which was added to the bill at the last minute during the Commission talks. The two-month equivalence period in the Business Law (BiH) has been extended to four months, with a motion issued by political lawmakers to implement in the tourism sector. At the same time, if the collective agreement for that workplace is in effect, the current four months are up to six months. Dear lawmakers, the outcome is clear if this clause is in effect. Overpaid work in the tourism industry will not be paid. At the end of the season, the workers in the tourism sector will be suspended and suspended due to the end of the season and the end of the season, and they will be rebuilt at the beginning of the season. Dear MPs, in other words, today we're dealing with a new AKP classic. Your commitments to workers and workers in the squares have been ignored. Against them, arrangements in favor of the capital are presented as something that will comfort the workers' unions. The bride says, "Don't create a new problem here, don't create a new chaos; come, withdraw this bill, don't cause chaos to work life, I salute you all once again.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0225par0122	Thank you, Mr. Akkaya. Third speaker on the entire bill, Çağlar Demirel on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0226par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our party on the Work Act 170, and on the draft of the Law on Making Changes in Turkey's Business Institution Act. We define this bill as the law of slavery, the law of employment. Although this bill has already been drafted, unfortunately it has been postponed for both social pressures and May 1st reasons. The way this law has been postponed after these social pressures, the way it has been brought in today, it also makes a lot of sense. Today, this law, brought in as a result of the fire, is actually an example of the AKP government's approach to HDP, and its approach to its own. Because we, the People's Democratic Party, have learned from the press that this law will be brought up today. Today, just hours before the opening of this Parliament, we were informed that this law would come to light. I think this is the first time this has happened here. Unfortunately, we were not informed of the Parliament's third political party, the other two parties in Parliament. So, it shows that the HDP already wants to be pushed out of Parliament. The approach to workers and workers in today's draft law, as the HDP is now seeking to be pushed out of Parliament with this approach, is an indication of the same approach to HDP. That's how we read it, that's how we view it, and that's how we deal with it. Because we have fulfilled our proposals and our opposition to this bill, that we are against it both in the Commission and in all areas, that workers and workers are being massacred. It's well known. This law is not a law drafted by trade unions, by workers, but rather by capital and employer. We, the HDP Group, feel that this law should not pass through Parliament, and we will carry out our opposition to it. We also think that this law is connected to the coup attempt against HDP (HDP) and our people. At the same time, we view this coup as a coup to the workers and workers, and we want to express once again that this is part of the process. Because this bill, the bill that we most express and the other parties object to, is a bill that is being prepared and drawn up quickly, regardless of the criticisms and proposals of the opposition. I just want to say once again that we're against it. Yes, we're curious to know if this law is a war on the workers. Like the war against the People's Democratic Party and the peoples. It's like women's slaughter, we're looking at it as a law that keeps women out of business, we're looking at it as a woman's slaughter. That's the law that eliminates severance pay. We express this law as the last model of exploitation, so we can express the worker as a law that exploits the laborer. It is a law aimed at exploiting workers, workers, and providing more rights to the employer in private. Come, give it up; come, withdraw this law and give up this law. We see the workers as a bill to be bought and changed, just like in the slave market, and we see that, and the application will show it, just as you took this bill on May 1st to prevent reactions in the fields and discussed it in Parliament. You're actually hiring workers by carrying out this law here. By renting workers four months or eight months, whom we refer to as rent workers, you have transformed them into an area where the employer can constantly change workers. You're dropping the charges. You're going to cause more workers to lose their lives because you're going to bring more work under heavier conditions to work. You're going to block the union organization again because you're going to try to get the new workers to resign the objector, the objector. This will increase the workmanship. You'll have reduced the rights of the workers to protect the capital. You're actually going to put the bill of the economic crisis on the workers' shoulders. We say, "Don't mess with the laborer's bread, come, don't eat your servant's rights." All of these private employment offices will be given to new companies. We know very well that this will be given to AKP-backed firms, just like the others. Don't miss the fire. Come sit down with the unions, the workers, talk to them, and review this bill. If you consider this bill unapproved, it will be very difficult for you to implement it. Therefore, we, the HDP Group, would like to express once again that this law, which aims to touch the job guarantee of about 25 million workers, must be withdrawn immediately. This law, I assure you, is more important to us than immunity, because you have touched the worker and the worker more heavily, and the result of bringing this bill today will be the workman and the laborer slaughter. If we take this bill a little deeper, the law has no legitimate and concrete grounds. So there's no point in imposing this law today, which has no legitimate and concrete grounds. Again, with this law, public responsibility will be transferred to the private sector. So this law is about the transfer of public responsibility employment to the private sector. Here the ISCUR will be disabled, the private sector will be loaded with everything. And this law, as I mentioned before, will not be an exception to the use of hired workers. Again, this law can easily hire a worker with a motive for almost everything companies need. Again, we say, "Come, give up this law." With this bill of hired labor, the uncle system, which led to the loss of 301 workers in Soma (Soma) will spread throughout Turkey and all areas. This employment and interest will now be transferred directly to the employer. Of course, it's not just the unemployed, it's the ones who will shoot what's happening at work, it's the ones that will be affected. You're going to run more and more yearly, and you're going to take away his rightful severance pay. And you're going to fire him so you don't have to pay for the annual sabbatical. So when we say all of these things, we see this in examples of the Earth, and in fact, in the world, there are examples of this. The workers who will receive lower wages will be run more unsecured; it is clear and obvious. Again, the bill will provide equal conditions for the rent workers. But let alone the equal conditions, they will be more victimized, more privatized. It's further behind what's been done with the public contractors, which means that for more than a decade, people will be waiting for a temporary employment position, and unfortunately, even this will be eliminated. That's what's going to happen in rental labor. Again, in addition to the decline of wages, the flexible, insecure, and disorganized work life will become even more irregular after this law. Working periodically will become norms, workers will not know where their next workplace will be. This will cause long-term plans for the worker himself and his family not to be made. We're already seeing that, after this modern slavery law, mothers will be upset that their other son has been laid off before they're happy that one of their sons has taken a job. Besides, there's gonna be Soma everywhere, and there's gonna be more and more job killings everywhere with this law. Again, with this law -- we said it, I'll say it again -- the severance package and the annual paid leave will be revoked. Again, with this bill, the right of workers to retire will be revoked. Again, with this bill, the subcontractor system will also change shape. Congressmans, the law will make subcontractors into private employment offices, which means it will be tricked, only the dish system will be replaced -- the subcontractor system's anti-employment structure will be preserved in the same way. Again, with this law, it would be impossible for you to even become a member of the unions. You'll force private employment offices and workers to stay away from the unions for fear of being unemployed. The lowest unionization rate among OECD countries is in Turkey, and we know it. The unionisation rate of hired workers will also be reduced in Turkey. Again, Mobbing will increase. Violence against women and firing women will increase further. A hierarchy will be born between full-time workers and hired workers. Again, finally, with this bill, the women's employment will not increase, on the contrary, will fall. And these negative results that we've listed so far will reflect much more negatively on female employment. First of all, hire workers will not have a new employment site, for example, because the woman who left her job because she was given birth, there will be no new employment space for her, or even more limited access to good jobs for women who have taken care of children and older women as second shifts at home. Again, research on temporary employment and the application of hired workers in the world suggests that the conditions for workers and women workers in particular are greatly reduced, and we can see that very clearly in examples in other countries. When a woman gives birth to three children, each time she uses her right to work part-time until the elementary school age, that does 16 and a half years in total. During that time, a woman who works in private employment offices will be without job security for 16 years. Again, the issue of women's maternity leave will be a serious problem. As you know, women who are already on maternity leave with flexible work are fully within the employer's initiative to work at the same workplace again. Women's extracurricular work is already considered natural and normal in Turkey, seen as norms. To that end, the government, again, makes these women look like they're being employed in statistical data, even though they don't have insurance on the women they pay home care for. The flexibility of the regime, as if it were reflected in the direction the workers want and according to what the workers want, shows that it was actually organised according to the needs of the industry. How, though, is this seen in current private employment offices? Most of the time, young people between 20 and 34 years of age are men, women, and 65 percent of those who find work through private employment offices. 56% of the women placed in work through offices, young and educated are higher than men in their positions. In the current situation, female workers receive less than the men they work in the same position and work even more unsecuredly, and with that law, they will be guaranteed by the law. That's exactly how, if this law passes, women will be asked to be employed in recycling jobs in general. Given the woman's view of the AKP's power, it will actually make it easier for women to be pushed back in business and imprisoned in the house. Yes, valuable lawmakers, if we sum up, after consultations with unions, labour organizations and workers as Peoples' Democratic Party, we can safely say that the purpose of the law of private employment offices that will bring the system of employment is not to increase employment, but to distribute the existing employment opportunities and the current money that is paid to workers by dividing it by half. We say that if employment really wanted to be increased, the government would not have chosen to encourage capital more or encourage it like a child; rather, it would have forced its bosses to employ workers with better wages and social security, making legal arrangements for the workers. We don't want him to put a gun to his head if we said "don't push it." If people work more than 50 hours a week in Turkey, we say it's the biggest problem, the biggest slaughter. What's supposed to happen is to reduce the shift in 35 hours without any loss of rights, prevent mass dismissals, pave the way for union organization. If the government provides these humanitarian conditions, the bosses will have to employ more workers. The only problem here will be a small reduction in the employer's profits, but it will be the burden of power to question it as much as possible. So as the AKP's government, which talks about the laborer's power, as you claim, if you're going to do politics in favor of the workers, workers and unemployed, as you claim, you need to withdraw this bill immediately, because we've all gotten votes from these workers and workers, and the account we're going to give them, should be a safer business law that we're going to give them. Again, otherwise, this law will be one of the biggest attacks against workers in Turkey's history to protect the profits of capital. It's very clear and clear. We will continue our opposition to this, as long as we are in this Parliament, and I would like to express once again that we are with the workers, the workers. Of course, the fact that you can't hide from us is that the period of your power has been 14 years since the world's most hard work, the least earner, the most unorganized, the most indebted, and the most dead workers were created. Worker, stop being a working man's enemy, take it out of your line of work. As the People's Democratic Party, which has set safe business as a fundamental principle, it has once again expressed that we oppose this law, that this law must be completely withdrawn, that this resurgence has to be pulled on our people immediately, and that the AKP government will be completely responsible for what has happened, I say, and I respectfully salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0227par0162	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Mr. Akçay, do you have a commitment request?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0228par0164	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0227par0165	Here's your microphone.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0228par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Deputy Group President Mr. Çağlar has just stated that they have no knowledge of the future of this 170 rows Bill of Law, and other party groups have been informed. And to avoid any misunderstanding, as the National Movement Party Group, I would like to make a statement from our own care that no information has been given to the Nationalist Action Party Group, but I asked myself later in the night, what do you think of tomorrow? You already know that every day there's this agenda, and there's a number of rows to discuss. They said they were thinking about Bill 170. So it's private, and our group hasn't been briefed. I felt the need to explain it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0229par0171	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On behalf of Mahmoud Kozar, MP of Şanlıurfa, on behalf of the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0230par0178	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on behalf of Business Act 170 and the Law on Change in Turkey's Business Institution Act. I hereby salute the High Council. We're discussing a bill, both in the commission stage and in the subcommittee stage, with very long and different assessments. With this bill, I'd like to express that the basis for preventing unemployment, boosting competitiveness with labour-force flexibility, and fighting off the books is essential. As you all know, unemployment is one of the most important social, economic problems in the world. It also creates an important extent of reducing unemployment, increasing employment styles. In this particular context, disabled women are crucial to the facilitating of the long-term unemployed and new graduates' entry into the labour market and the creation of an employment model for them, no doubt preventing unemployment. However, the important thing here is to clearly establish the rankings in the interim business relationship, while creating new jobs, while avoiding off-the-books, these employment models include regulations that will not challenge labour exploitation and protect employees. Article 1 of the law is based on ILO contracts and the European Union directive, in which cases there will be a temporary employment relationship, whose time has been clearly established. This practice is a model that has been implemented in many countries for many years, especially in the European Union, and according to the results of the implementation, the directives of the European Union have been determined. According to the European Confederacy Economic Report of the Special Employment Offices published in 2015, the number of employees working as part of a temporary business relationship in the world is 1.6 per cent and 1.7 per cent in the European Union. So, as claimed, the approach that all employees will be employed in a temporary business relationship is not the right approach. And I want to make it very clear that this 1.6 percent and 1.7 are also a number that has been achieved over many years. It is also clear in the law which areas will be established as a temporary business relationship in which areas there will be an interim relationship. The first is that a temporary work relationship with birth, milk leave and sick leave can be established. As it is known, prior to the AK PARTI rule, there was an application in which prenatal leave was three weeks and postpartum leave was five weeks and eight weeks in total. With legal arrangements, eight weeks prenatal, eight weeks postpartum, 16 weeks total. Again, from the end of the maternity leave to the school age, women who work are given a partial term of work under a new arrangement. These are important regulations for removing obstacles to the working life of women without being forced to choose between women's children and their work, and, as you all know, during the AK PARTI rule, it has been implemented. We, with this new arrangement, open the way for working women, both in prenatal and postpartum sabbatical periods -- along with the new arrangement -- to be provided by private employment offices for the partial period of work to the school age. In fact, we're here to remove an important reason for employers who are avoiding women's employment, who don't want to employ women, and with this legal arrangement, we're removing obstacles to women's employment. An important area about the possibility of another interim work relationship is when employees are in the military. You know, someone's working in the position of an employee who's currently in the military, but how does it work? Either with a fixed-term contract -- which raises a lot of legal problems -- or off the record -- a significant part of it works off the record. So we're bringing in important regulations for recording an unregistered situation in an actual situation to prevent off-the-book. Again, in household services -- which, as you all know, is an unregistered area -- we're providing employment through private employment offices, including employees in terms of occupational health and safety, and there's an obligation at the point of registering. Another important area is seasonal agricultural workers. In fact, it's a very private matter, a matter we need to spend a lot of time on, and in the research commission, which we chaired in the 24th term, it's an area where all political parties have unanimously agreed and submitted the report. Seasonal agricultural workers are not only a matter of working life; it is also a general issue of transportation, housing, education of children and other areas. Maybe in the future we'll be able to do a lot more different and longer evaluations of this, but with this law, we're preparing a major infrastructure for the area of seasonal agricultural workers, where seasonal workers are now at the most off-the-book, where they're 95%. I want to make it very clear from here that we need to take significant distances from future legal arrangements and regulations, including the problems of seasonal agricultural workers in other areas, such as transportation, housing, and so on. Dear friends, this practice, as I've just stated, is not an application that will be the first in Turkey; it is an application that has been implemented throughout all European Union countries, and norms have been determined according to the application outputs. But here, in all European Union countries, in the European Union and Commission directives, the most important issue that is focused on the ILO norms is the principle of equal treatment, so if you are running a temporary worker somewhere, it is the approach that no difference will be observed in terms of the basic working conditions and will be subject to equal treatment. While we were making these legal arrangements, a significant change was made especially in the subcommittee. This significant change is that the ILO norms, the 181 agreement on the establishment of ILO's private employment offices, and the part of the 2008 European Union directive, which includes this equal treatment, have been written in accordance with the motion. The draft law, presented at this time to the discretion of the General Assembly, is part of the regulation on the principle of equal implementation, which includes the directive of the European Union and the relevant clause of the ILO (ILO) as in the text of the law. In this arrangement, the basic working conditions of the temporary worker, the employer who employs the temporary worker in the European Union's directive, cannot be provided directly by the same employer. Again, with the changes made, a very important provision was made, especially with the arrangements made in these commission studies, to ensure that the guarantees will be increased by 10 times the amount of the amount of the guarantee, to increase the fines in the absence of proper workers, and to be paid primarily from guarantees, especially if the private employment office terminates its activities. The meaning of this arrangement is that in the event that the private employment office's operation is terminated within this system that has been seriously upgraded its guarantees, it has been made a top priority by taking over the state benefits of its hires. Of course, I express my belief that there will be different approaches and regulations to regulate the basic working conditions of employees with very important contributions in the General Assembly phase. This arrangement is prepared according to the norms of the ILO and the European Union, and I salute the entire House.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0231par0190	Thank you, Mr. Runar. On behalf of the entire bill, the second speaker is Omar Fethi Gürer, Nüğde MP. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0232par0194	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have brought a draft law on working life to the Parliament's agenda. This bill is not to respond to the needs of Turkey's workers. This bill is directly aimed at boosting market share of international private employment companies. The bill will serve to create more jobs by bringing supposedly guaranteed flexibility. The existing Business Act has the capacity to respond to all claims proposed in the bill. The Employment Act has a temporary employment relationship, a fixed-term service contract, and an external service in certain areas. What's new? Private employment companies are authorized to make more profits. When we look at the world's examples, the main source of income for such companies is hiring workers. It's not right to risk the rights and assurances of our millions of workers because someone's going to make a profit. Workers' organisations oppose this bill. Allowing private employment offices to be granted temporary employment powers, as we all know, will also create a new barrier to the right of workers to hire workers and to benefit from a collective contract of employment. If Turkey wants to increase employment, it must first aim to grow, especially in industry. He must take measures to increase his production. It should reduce overtax charges, energy costs. The growth of production, for growth, is not a single attempt by power outside construction. Construction, as we call it, does not create real wealth in Turkey, other than creating a door of rant for supporters and rulers. On the contrary, the deviation from the purpose of the TOKI is a result of distorted urbanization, concreteization, and natural destruction that will never come back. The voice of the workers must be heard. We've increased the price, and now we're going to get some rights in return. The approach is wrong. The event, which is called Kira labor, is clearly a candidate to take the workers to the back of the 19th century, in line with their rights. We can't say yes to such an arrangement that will make workers slaves of the modern age. It is our fundamental and indispensable duty to protect the rights and freedom of workers against slavery. We have an objection to this law that will disrupt business peace, promote illegal operating, prevent unionization, increase business killings. (H.P.) Work guarantees, employment guarantees, revenue guarantees, integration assurances, all elements of guaranteed work are stretched by this law, and regulations are made against the worker. Job security is being eliminated, workers' social security rights are being eliminated, workers are being destroyed in bulk, not backward. Rental labor will do nothing but create problems. Dear lawmakers, whenever there is a legal arrangement from the January 24th decisions to the present day, it is by law that workers' achievements be taken back, that workers' rights be annulled in parliament. However, the labor of many of you, your father, your mother, or yours, at some point in your life, is the highest value. However, in our country's arrangement for labor laws and workers, it is common to think that their gains will be taken back, so that the problems will be overcome. But if there is work, and there is industry, then there is labour for it. It has never helped anyone to put all the negativity on the workers, take their gains, and force them to work with slavery in one place. Of all the negatives that have happened in our country, I think it's a grave mistake to bring such provisions to the agenda of the House, which will create new social problems. (H.P.) The understanding of improving the economy by looking for the gains of our workers will be the main cause of new problems, rather than solving their problems. My dear friends, in the Bor district of Niğde, our fellow workers in our sugar factory launched an action before May 1st. The reason for their actions is that our workers who have worked at the sugar factory for 20 years have not been able to take office. They're being brought in as temps, they're being activated. They have technical capacities, they're qualified, but our workers can't be staffed at the factory because the promises aren't fulfilled. Their actions to make their voices heard are very meaningful; they work overtime for two hours, and they don't charge. So workers are the ones who own the institutions that they work for, they're both the ones that promote production, and they're the ones that lead to solving problems there. In this context, there are other workplaces involved. It's a fact that a lot of our workers have been out of work recently. What good is it that workers' rights and employment guarantees, which are already limited, are being taken away by such laws and made even more victims? In order for new negatives not to be created, each section of such plans must be passed with a common opinion, and in this context, each section must say, "I am in it." But we do know that ever since this bill came up, our labor organizations have stood up, so that even the TÜRK-İsti, whose voice I've forgotten to hear over the years, who's in charge, has finally stood up at the point of the rights of workers being undermined. For this, I think this arrangement should be transformed into an arrangement that must be made for workers and workers to be sure and certain. For some reasons, examples of Europe are given, or the application of what is happening here in Europe is explained, but the practices, the work peace of workers, and the existence of workers in the field of work have not yet been achieved in our country. It is also true that the countries that we set as examples after not building their existence in our country under all the rules that we have shown there are not the right examples for us. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] In this context, as the new arrangement is not in favor of the workers or in favor of them, I think there is a plan that will create new problems for them, put them in distress in their forward lives, and bring new suffering with them. In this context, I think it would be right to withdraw this bill and bring it back to the House after the settlement has been reached. What's the big deal now that a bill like that comes to the House in a hurry? The commissions were discussed, he came here. What good does that do? What's the idea here? Increase what? Who's it gonna benefit? Obviously, it'll benefit the rims. And what good is that to the workers, to the workers? No. So sometimes we all have to agree on what's being done and what's being done when we're thinking about it: we're going to go and look at what we're saying we're doing in favor of them, the organization, the worker, the worker, and the worker. They say it's wrong. It's also true that something that's wrong won't be an arrangement for them. In this context, the legal arrangement is not in favour of the workers, it says that it will bring them problems, it will pave the way for modern slavery, it will reverse its rights, and in this context, there is a bill that will not benefit the workers, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0233par0206	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. The talks on the entire bill for groups and individuals are over. Now I'm going to do a 20-minute QA on all of it. I'll start the questions. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0234par0211	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, as I just said in my speech, workers in the sugar factory have staff expectations. They've been in and out of the same business for about 20 years, but they're being hired as temps. There were promises about them. Is there any work your ministry has done on this subject? Are these friends going to be cast? What do you think of his actions? Because they've started a two-hour overtime. Did their voices reach you? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0235par0214	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0236par0215	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is there an employment office in Turkey right now? How many are foreigners, how many are locals? Question 2: What need did employment offices come from? Question 3: Won't that lead to labor brokership? Question four, won't it block your strike rights? Question 5: Won't it interfere with unionization? Question 6: Won't he finish the job security? Question 7: Won't it make the workers a commodity? Question 8: If this bill does not include employment, it will be called unemployment with new jobs. No legal security, no investment, no unemployment? Question 9: Will the workers' rights not be filed? Question 10: Will the existing bill not limit the rights of workers? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0237par0227	Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0238par0228	Thank you, Mr. President. As you know, summer is coming, and especially in Çukurova, wheat harvests are starting, but so far, the Office has not made any price statements, and our farmer is urgently waiting for these prices. The second, Mersin, you know, is a region where different cultures come together in faith and culture, where different beliefs, different races, people live in peace. In this region, children of elementary school are taken to mosques once a week by an agreement made by the National Education and Mufti. The second, again, at the Salahaddin Ayyubi Imam Hatip Middle School in Mersin, the principal puts a beard in a jar and makes the children kiss it with songs. So, is the Ministry planning to do anything about it, do they intend to do any research? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0239par0233	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0240par0234	Thank you, Mr. President. My question will be to the Minister. Pharmaceuticals do not feel safe for life and property safety. Pharmaceuticals and their employees maintain health care, especially at watch time, after twelve o'clock at night, under the threat of thieves, drunkards, drug addicts, and so on. Either our government must protect the pharmacy on duty or at night, the patients' medicine must be provided from the hospital. There is no regulation on the permits of pharmacists, and pharmacists are unable to take annual leave. In the same way, green prescription drugs are dangerous. Green prescriptions should also be covered by hospitals. We expect your support in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0241par0238	Mr. Ahrazoglu...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0242par0239	Thank you, Mr. President. The minister has been in the press, where the job opportunities for 400,000 Syrians are granted; they are also available to refugees from 200,000 Afghanistan, Somalia and other countries. With so many unemployed people all over Turkey, the issues of 4/C have not been dealt with, plus the problems with subcontractors, are they true? Turkey's unemployment rate has risen and the number of farmers has dropped. What do you think of these issues? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0243par0243	Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0244par0244	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the women's place will be permanent in the secondary labour market. It is said that one of the main factors that deepens the problems of women and trade unions and this lack of protection is informality. Given the current conditions of unregistered employment, the adoption of temporary employment through these private employment offices will affect this more negatively. The same goes for immigrant workers because they're at risk, and they need special measures to be taken for them, but they're going to be pushed into a lot more insecurities right now. I'd like to know how you feel about the risk of temporary employment agencies causing women to be pushed, exploited, not just by women, but also by immigrant workers.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0243par0246	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0245par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what about the private employment offices established by this law known as the law of the slave market? Six people are currently employed at a table in Gaziantep İSKUR. The employees have nowhere to breathe. My first question is: do you have any plans for a place related to Gaziantep İSKUR? My second question is: How are you going to secure the safety of these private employment offices and these employees while over 10,000 members of you are currently under investigation for using a simple right from production? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0246par0251	Mr. Behcet Yıldırım...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0247par0252	Mr. Secretary, there are allegations that 55,000 housing will be made for the refugees called the village of Adıyaman, who is struggling with unemployment. These 55,000 dwellings amount to about 300,000 people, half the population of Adıyaman. Surely this will increase unemployment even more. Can you imagine the social, cultural consequences? We know he opposes this with the power of the Adıyaman people. I'd like to point out that this is unacceptable. I'd like to know how you feel about that.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0246par0253	Dear Desire Virtue...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0248par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we all call it heaven beneath the feet of our mothers. Despite the repeated cries of our mothers' rights, we were inconclusive. We have Mother's Day ahead of us, and our mothers are waiting for good news. Will insurance be allowed to lend money to pre-historic births? At the time when the equality of opportunity is discussed, especially when the right to a man to a soldier's debt is given, while our women should also be owed pre-historic birth debts. He wishes you to give me a good news answer, and I am already celebrating from here, the Mother's Day of all our mothers. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0249par0257	Dear Ali Sugar...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0250par0258	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP is part of a period of subcontracted labor boom. And now he's bringing his workforce down to a piece of business with these arrangements. In the AKP's power, your share of the money you transferred from the back of the poor to the richest 1 per cent has increased from 39% to 54 per cent. The wealth of one percent rich is content with 22 percent of the wealth of the first poor 90 percent. Only 90 per cent of society has to live on 22 per cent. So, during your time in power, the poor population lost 90 percent, one third of its fortune. In a time of such a profound abyss, these practices will lead to even greater abysses, and you must withdraw them at once. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0251par0261	Mr. Heroalp...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0252par0262	Mr. Secretary, you promised me a staff for this subcontractorship in the June 7th election. What did you do after that? Do you have any work on this? Obviously, we're asking you for a practical answer. Months have passed, as no concrete step has been taken yet, only public opinion is saying something every day. Do you have any work on this? What are you going to do? Thank you. Mr. Tanal, 10 questions won't slow you down, which you asked for again. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0253par0266	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we're, uh, 181 No. We didn't sign the lLO Convention. The real guarantees are here, so we're saying that this is now within the norms of the European Union, before we sign this. How intimate is that? I mean, 181 No. Have we signed the contract, or do you intend to bring it to Parliament? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0254par0269	Mr. Stonedemir...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0255par0270	Mr. Secretary, what will be the impact of private employment offices on unemployment and how will they register the off-the-book economy? I'd appreciate it if you could put it in concrete terms. Another question is about seasonal workers. Seasonal workers are employed both off the record and unsecured. Do you have a plan for the employment and social security rights of seasonal workers?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0254par0272	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0256par0273	Turkey has signed the ILO Convention on Freedom of Organization 87 from its ILO contracts. Therefore, there is a full and detailed need to conduct a full and detailed consultation with employees and employers' organisations in a amendment to collective contract or working conditions. Surprisingly, though, the government prefers to attack workers who bring their opinion rather than engage in a constructive dialogue about draft changes. Would it not be possible for the peace environment to be established and the proper legal arrangements to be implemented if, instead, it could be carried out by the law, and those organisations could express their own demands? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0254par0275	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. Now, I promise the government answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0257par0278	Mr. President, I want to thank you and all of our deputies very much. And a thank you to our first Commission meeting on February 16th, and then to our subcommittee meeting on February 17th and 18th, and on February 23rd at our Commission meeting, to our commissioners, especially Mr. President, as well as NGOs, all union representatives, workers and employer representatives. Because it was an important bill for our country and for our working life, and besides these commissions, I would like to announce to our great Assembly that we have met dozens of times, perhaps with our unions and our NGOs. Because, as you can appreciate, there are some very important assessments of this bill. We had to jointly consider our ruling party's assessments and assessments of opposition parties as well as the assessments of our unions, workers and employers' unions, and by working through this bill until last night, I repeat, I would like to point out that we brought this bill here with an understanding, which is close to the agreement by last night, about six or seven more changes, but I would like to say that we brought it here. And it's very clear that the roof of our bill is sitting on the ILO and EU norms, which are in line with the ILO and EU norms, and I want to say again: Surely there will be critics, and we need to meet and evaluate these criticisms within the scale of criticism. But we can't accept this criticism: it's not a slave bill; it's a mistake, and it's a very clear reason: if, today, a bill like this comes up to record people working under the stairs, working off the books, and we're taking it out of the record, and we're taking it out of the record, and we're taking it out of the record, and we're not even sure if it's going to get any pensions, and we're not going to get any pensions. And here we think just like you, we've brought in all the constraints and all the elements that can eliminate any activism that can prevent a function, which can turn a temporary labor into permanent labor. And again, I want to say that in terms of understandings in developed countries in Europe that have a temporary business relationship with private employment offices -- I don't know how true it is, but we're bringing in the strictest bill. Now, especially now, on one hand, farm workers, women working for birth, our college students, on the other hand, including working from a distance, so what would you be, today, when a woman is doing a metal job in her house or is doing a box-making job, or is she in a social security system? None of them are in the social security system today. Each and every one of you, we're all legislators. A question just came in, and it was said: "Will you take in the women who gave birth before their insurance?" The reason for this question is that this woman, of course, has worked uninsuredly and is uninsured, because she's working off the record, is how can I fill this time today? This challenge is a very legitimate endeavor, but if it had worked on time, if it had worked off the record and not off the record, it could have been provided -- for personal employment or for any reason. Then, I'd like to say to our great Council that this is not such a big revolution, it's not the name of an event that brings such great unemployment and slavery, and I'm very clear. The average of this in Europe is 1.6, the registered employment in the United States is 2.1, Japan is 2.2 per cent in the United Kingdom; at most, it is only 3.9 per cent in Britain -- which is like 4+4 -- that is, like us -- that there is no reduction in the growth of business volume. I want to make it clear that on one hand, each of us is responsible for it. We find a cure here for a man who can't even bring his sick kid to the hospital in the evening. Again, I'll tell you this: representatives of our Labour Ministry, who did a study on severance pay, met their employees, went to many countries, where they met Turkish students. Interesting table: Most of the Turkish students work in private employment offices, and with their work for two hours, three hours a day, they somehow manage to pay for their own income and their own allowance.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0258par0286	They call it a part-time job, Mr. Secretary, part-time job.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0257par0287	Again, I'd like to say that private employment offices here are not today's event, and we're not setting this up on private employment offices. The subcommittee will know, and we've discussed it in the High Commission. What we care most about here is this: is it possible that a person entering a place as a temporary worker could be a regular worker? You know, we cut him off with at least 50 countermeasures in this law. No way, there is no mobility; the employer is a participant, and the worker is a participant. Are they going to be unionists or not? Yes, they have the right to be unionists where they are, but the truth is, in Europe -- 1.5 percent, 1.6 per cent, 1.7 per cent -- are they very unionists? No. But they have the right to be union members at the private employment office, and they have the opportunity to do so in the countries where this is in operation in Europe, and I'll tell you this again...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0258par0289	They'll be thrown out in return!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0259par0290	Do you believe, Mr. Secretary, do you believe?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0257par0291	Believe me, it's going to be better than Europe, our union organization, and it's going to be better today. And again...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0259par0292	Better how? How's 5% better? Eight percent in Europe, nine percent in us, five percent!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0257par0293	No, no. Let me put it this way: we'll put an account and it'll go higher. The average union organisation in Europe is based on all employees. You're just organizing through the worker. There is an officer involved in the concept of "Workers," and there is a worker involved in the concept of "Workers..."
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0260par0295	What's the rate on the officer, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0257par0296	But we don't claim that that's enough today, as the government claims that this is inadequate today, and we'll all be willing to make an effort to increase it further. And I also have to say that one of the most important issues, especially the most important things, is that if Mr. President would allow me a moment, I'd like to transfer the final changes to the board in some way.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0261par0298	That's our objection right there, Mayor. Isn't that exactly our objection to the Minister? Does he not know he's coming?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0262par0299	If you saw him yesterday, why are you in such a hurry today?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0257par0300	No, no. Look, let me tell you something...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0263par0301	Mr. Demirel, please, let's not interrupt the Minister, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0257par0303	For about three months, we've been negotiating this for three and a half months, and there are a few parties in this negotiation, and we, as referee, are obliged to make an agreement on this negotiation, it's our duty, it's our duty, it's our duty. It's a place of negotiation, and it's a place of understanding, so we're talking about it, and we're considering it.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0264par0304	This is the final point, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0257par0305	And as long as we don't make any changes to the main roof, we get a thousand-dollar fine per worker at the regular place. Again, I'd like to point out that if a temp worker at a temporary workplace can't get his salary from there, it's because of a private employment office that gives him a salary from a month to three months -- this is the most recent one, after he leaves the subcommittee and the Commission -- it's the employer's. And here we have an understanding that protects the worker, protects the worker. And I'd like to say again, especially in private employment offices... that was said on the subcommittee, we had 10 times that, so we had a total of 200 minimum wage, and now we're trying to come up with an understanding that makes it 20 times that. We're going to propose this here, and of course, the acceptance of this will be carried out by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In addition, one of the most important issues, of course, was the request of our unions to correct what we call an unpredictably unpredictable business increase. That's with them, again yesterday, especially the average...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0265par0310	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0257par0312	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd like to give this information to the Council, because it's a very important process, in the eyes of our trade unions, in the eyes of our business, in the eyes of the employer, especially in terms of improving the investment climate. There are examples in the world, but here we are taking a new step towards it. We have to put flexible work on one side to improve our employment, and we have to do it so that our people who are going to be thrown into business can be thrown out in a comfortable way, and on the other hand, new business conditions can be adapted for the integration of business. And I'd also like to say that all of this has happened, along with all of this, and I've been able to pay for it, and it's going to be reported to ISKUR, because it's on the roof of this, and it's also overseeing private employment offices, so let's say that three months of salary has not been paid, or three times a year, there's a lot of jobs, but there's a reason why it's all work that's going to go away. But if there's any objection here -- we're bringing something like this for the first time -- from the moment they report this objection to ISKUR, this (f) clause will immediately report the objection to the Employment Review Board at the Ministry of Labor. With all of this, when the special employment office's authority has been revoked in some way, the collateral will be violated and the employee will be paid regardless of the provisions set out in other laws. So there was an assessment on the subcommittee and the Commission, asking whether the collateral would be broken or not. We've been trying to come up with an understanding that makes it stronger. So this came to the Supreme Assembly as a result of mutual assessments, mutual agreements, consultations, negotiations. Of course, I believe that this will be a particularly important process in our business, but it's very clear and clear that we're trying to turn the entire picture, which is in the middle today, with this law, with this bill, into employment. It's not -- I'm telling you again -- it's not a big revolution, it's certainly not an event that concerns millions of people. This will open a new business door to perhaps 250,000 people, 300,000 people, and open a new employment door in Turkey. There is an assessment: If such workers work with temporary labor, when will they retire? These will not work for the rest of their lives. Here's what we need to do: there's a new business life, there's new business conditions; Turkey is adapting to it, we're improving the investment climate, and I believe we're also going to make a sense of recording an off-the-book issue. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0266par0318	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0267par0319	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0266par0320	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0267par0321	Mr. President, thank you. He could have taken the stand and made a statement on behalf of the government; he now expressed opinions that he could have expressed as a government on the stand rather than as an answer in his speech from here. In the question of Mr. Lust Erdem, women's view of birth-borrowing pre-insurance is extraordinarily wrong and wrong, it needs to correct that view, and it clearly states that she worked uninsuredly. As men are entitled to a military loan, so are women who are required to be born, as are our legal proposals, and that is the question. That's the way he understands the matter, Mr. Secretary. I mean, it doesn't necessarily mean you're working without insurance, we can't say that. I've been promised to express it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0268par0325	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0269par0326	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0268par0327	Congressmans, the question-answer process is now over. After the Minister's answers, we cannot go to an application to ask questions again. So, Mr. Secretary has given enough answers to the questions of the lawmakers, which is a separate issue of discussion. But your question, I assume, is that Mr. Secretary has a say in the matter, and I promise the Minister for a minute.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0269par0328	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0270par0329	Mr. President, my opinion isn't directed at your application, it's actually addressed to the Minister. I mean, not in terms of your practice, I'm telling the Minister.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0268par0330	I mean, I understand, Mr. Akçay, but now I don't get enough answers to every congressman's question. If he wants to ask a question, it would be a violation of the Civil Code. I have a law proposal for, for example, the debt of birth, but there is no way that the Minister can appreciate the extent of the questions here -- the amount of time that allows -- which questions he will answer, and we can't intervene in any way.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0270par0331	It won't be your intervention, but it'll be our warning.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0268par0332	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. I'll turn on your microphone for a minute.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0271par0334	Thank you very much. Our women's insurance holders are able to borrow for each child two years and six years in total, up to three births post-insurance. The question is: Can there be a debt on their birth before they become insurance? I would like to say: This can be done, but this will upset our balance with the actuary. Again, the reason is that, I mean, it's a lot of public opinion for us, it's a lot for all of our MPs. From the moment we do this, I especially want to say that we can't have the ability to maintain our income-go balance. All of our calculations are in that direction, and this is not going to be sustainable in terms of the insurance system from the moment we took the obstetric debt before the insurance date. Let me tell you something about Gaziantep. We're still investigating the building of Gaziantep.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0272par0337	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0273par0342	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0272par0343	There's got to be a roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0274par0345	They need to get up at the same time.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit04spe0272par0346	Congressmans, there is no delay. There is no delay. As I read my sentence, Mr. Demirel stood up, so I will perform the roll call, first I will identify those who have made the request. Mr. Taşçıer, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, Mr. Yigitalp, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Lion, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Behcet Yıldırım, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Skillekli, Mr. Irgat, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Atahçe Ertan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0272par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. During the vote on the transfer to the provisions of the 170-line Bill of Law, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm gonna do another roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The commission and the government are in place. The first part covers the 1st to 5th article. Now, I will meet your demands on chapter one. First, I will meet the demands of political party groups. First, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mustafa Kalaycı is an MP for Konya. Here you go, Mr. Kalay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Congressmans, there is a hum in the General Assembly, the speaker is on the stand, and he will begin to speak. Please, let's hear it, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0275par0021	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In this part of the bill, new regulations are being made in the field of flexible work by changing the relevant articles of Business Law 4857. The first legal regulations for flexible working models in our country were adopted and implemented in the 4857 Work Law, which was adopted in 2003. One is the interim work relationship with the 7th article of Law 4857. According to this, a temporary work relationship takes place when the employer temporarily transfers a worker to another employer to work within the holding company or at another workplace or on the same job as he does in the company's community. Under the bill, special employment offices are authorized to temporarily transfer their employees to the employer by making a temporary contract of employment, in which case and for how long they can be interim employment relations and responsibilities are organised. This issue has been on the agenda of AKP power for years, and has been vetoed by the President on the grounds that the 2009 arrangement could lead to negative practices such as the abuse of labor, the birth of unbecoming situations in human honor, and the failure of working peace. Establishing a temporary employment relationship through private employment offices is brought back to life by this bill. In the event that workers are suspended from employment contracts such as labor, military, annual leave, disease, and employment agreements such as employment and the need of the employer continue, it is also necessary for temporary employment in seasonal farming, home care and home care services, but it would be more appropriate to develop a certain labour contract mechanism for these conditions and areas. The bill also calls for an unprecedented increase in the business volume of the business, as well as a periodary increase in business, which provides non-seasonal jobs. Such situations are easily subject to abuse and will cause many conflicts in practice. How do you control these situations? How can it be measured if the volume of work increases unpredictably? Given the nature of a business order, I have received an order. How can it be taken to go on this road? Thus, it is evident that these situations, which are very difficult to control, will be transformed into a continuous means of employment, replacing basic employment by rental labor. The bill stipulated that there would be no interim employment by means of a private employment office for eight months at public workers' jobs. In fact, this sentence also means that eight months after mass dismissal, temporary workers can be employed. In this way, the decision that a collective worker can never be employed in the workplace under Article 29 of the Employment Law is being issued, and a temporary worker who has created labor for a trade union purpose is opened eight months later. The reason for the bill, the esteemed MPs, is to speak of guaranteed flexibility. The arrangement, however, envisions a very, very flexible working system. Let's ask the Minister, and let him answer: Where are the workers guaranteed in this arrangement? Let's not take refuge in the general arrangements because he's not saving them. Is there a worker's job guarantee in this arrangement? No. Is the employee's right to take regular weekly and annual leave? No. Does a worker get paid permission when he's sick? No. Is there an arrangement for the employee's non-rentity period and social security premiums? No. Is the worker's fee secured? No. Will the worker receive the same employee's salary at his temporary workplace? No. Will the worker be able to become a member of the union at his temporary workplace, benefit from the collective contract? No. Does the employee have a guarantee of reporting and severance? No. After all, no guarantees are given to the hired laborer. The government, literally, wants to establish a "for hire" office. The application will serve "a hired employee" to companies demanding workers. Instead of employing workers on staff or on contract, workers will hire as many workers as they wish from private employment offices. The hired laborer will not be employed by his employer, but will work at his workplace according to the length of his work. He'll get his fee from the private employment office that rented him that job. The employee's salary here will be paid by the employee's personal employment office, not by the employee's exemployee's salary, but by the employee's individual employment office, which means he works as a slave, and the winner will be the private employment office. The hired worker will be able to work at the workplace for a short time and work for years. There is no priority for the worker in this regard. The firms are not responsible for dealing with any problems such as employment security, salary, insurance, and trade union. When a hired employee is sent back from his rental company, he is not laid off, but his lease is terminated. Since the employee's original employer is a private employment office, the employee remains an employee of the bureau. However, the office will be able to lay off the worker and send it to another firm for rent. The worker doesn't know where, how long, how long, what work he's going to do until he's notified. Rental workers will be deprived of many rights, including job security and severance in the first place, equal wages for equal employment, regular working life, rising in office, paying in sickness, taking regular weekly and annual leave. Insurance premiums won't be in order for workers who don't get a chance to get hired all the time. According to the bill, the temporary employment employer has no responsibility for the employee's non-payment and social security premiums. It is unclear whether the worker will receive a fee when he waits for work at the private employment office, and since he cannot find a job, it is not allowed to terminate the employee's contract of employment. The bill does not regulate workers' severance pay and annual sabbaticals. Since the work of these workers is temporary and will last less than a year, they will not be able to earn severance and take annual leave. As a result, this bill brings an dishonorable work model, even from labor markets. With this model intended to enter into Turkish working life, the slave system will be fully established, and the slave trade will become practically legal. With this working model, labor can be made even more worthless, and workers can be bought and sold. In the current case, the union organisation, which is already very limited, will be completely forgotten by this model, which will even search for what is called modern slavery. The employee's rights in the Business Act will be taken from him. Millions of workers will be paid minimum wage, sentenced to slavery. In addition, the bill opens a large door to private employment offices through the labor of the worker. Global companies operating in this sector and opening up their branches in our country are lobbying from four branches for this arrangement to be carried out, promoting that if this law is passed, employment will increase in our country. However, flexible work is not likely to contribute as much as it is expected. Flexible work is a temporary solution to employment problems. The main thing is to make sure that the economy is an economy that creates enough jobs. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0276par0033	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. Ünal Demirtaş, Zonguldak MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the first chapter. Here you are, Mr. Demirtaş.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0277par0037	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge to present our views on the CHP Group for the first part of the bill on guaranteed flexible work, remote work, private employment offices. Dear lawmakers, today we are discussing a law that concerns about about 10 million employees, including 30 or 40 million of our citizens. Although Mr. Secretary has just stated that some corrections have been made on the bill, we are talking about a law that violates the basic philosophy of business law, which violates its spirit, which includes a number of provisions that can be misused by employers, which can turn all four sides of Turkey into legitimate labor markets, undermine the working life, disrupt business peace. The basic philosophy of business law is to protect the weak worker against the economicly powerful employer. However, it does not protect labor, it does not protect the worker, but it protects the employer against Law 4857, which protects the worker. Mr. AKP MPs, look, so far, you've passed through the House a lot of regulations that could be against the workers. In your era, the workers lost their rights one by one, and they continue to lose them. I understand that most of you are the boss, or most of you are the boss, but think about the poor workers who are going to be waiting every day for jobs at the legal labor market, trying to bring bread to their house with minimum wage. You heated and heated this law and brought it to Turkey, before which you passed it through the General Assembly in 2009, but President Abdullah Gul returned it. Mr. Abdullah Gul approved 886 laws during his seven-year presidential term, which means that whatever came before him, he did notarized, and returned only four laws. One of the four laws passed by Mr. Abdullah Gul, who resides in Çankaya, is this law. However, we believe that the President, who now resides in Fivetepe, has notarized this law as soon as possible because this president in Çankaya has returned it. Again, last year you passed it through the Commission, it didn't go through the General Assembly, the law failed. So you know that this law is contrary to the Constitution, contrary to conscience, and contains many provisions that could harm employees' rights. Maybe you have a bad conscience, too, but now that this law is back in the House, it means the order is from a great place. Dear lawmakers, we've listened to representatives of the labour confederations during the subcommittee work, and none of them want this law out; they don't want TÜRK-İSK, DİSK doesn't want it, they don't want it; they're taking action, they're collecting signatures, and they're making it clear that they're against it. And since the workers don't want this law, who wants this law to come out? Of course the bosses do. Because with this law, the real goal is to reduce the cost of labor, to lighten the burden on the boss. As before, I'm afraid you're against the laborer again, and unfortunately you're holding the employer in line with him. Dear lawmakers, I'm looking at the name of the law, which is a very nice word to convince the workers, a cool word: I've read the law word for word, I've read it over and over again, and I didn't see any guarantees for the worker in this law, I swear I didn't see it. But I also looked at the employer's side, yes, and this law has assurances of the real employer. What do you think? The original employer is free of all obligations imposed on him by Law 4857. By this law, millions of registered workers under the protection of the original employer are in danger of being excluded from the original employer's security. The employee will be under contract for four months, and those contracts will be extended for up to eight months, and then the employer will not be able to renew the contract with the same worker. So, what's this worker gonna do? He'll be back, waiting for a job at the private employment office. So what happens if the Bureau doesn't get a job? When we expressed this concern in the Commission, Mr. Undersecretary said that whatever he was doing before, he will continue to do the same, so he will look for work. We have his answer. Is such a mindset possible, dear friends? Can such a mentality solve the problem of unemployment? Look, millions of our people are looking for work. As lawmakers, we see it very well, and the AKP's friends are getting a lot of job requests, and they're coming to us. There's unemployment on the streets, there's hunger, there's poverty, shouldn't we have a little compassion? Dear lawmakers, the employee of the private employment office will be deprived of the guarantee of extradition by this law, severance pay, annual leave fee. In the event of an occupational accident, neither he nor his relatives will receive their compensation from the original employer, not even the unemployment benefit of the Fund, not the minimum wage, not the union, not the opportunities of a collective contract, and not the provisions of the collective contract, because the law considers the worker a private employment worker, not the employee of the original employer. The name of the private employment office consists of four chairs, a table, and a computer. Yes, Mr. Secretary has stated that it has been increased. Legal collateral is not even enough to pay social security bonuses for private employment workers. The worker is completely at the mercy of the private employment office. Mr. Minister and AKP MPs, look, there was a subcontractor between the worker and the employer earlier, while we opposed subcontractor practice, you bring in a private employment office along with a contractor between the employee and the employer. With this app, you bring back a more primitive arrangement than a subcontractor. You're bringing subcontractors with private employment offices. You'll see, this law will be abused by employers more than subcontractors. The esteemed MPs, Mr. Minister, say: "With this arrangement, there will be a temporary work relationship between the worker and the employer. " I find it difficult to understand why there will be a temporary work relationship. When a person starts working at a workplace, it is not temporary; it is goals of permanent work; it is goals of retirement in that workplace for years; no one wants temporary work; no one wants permanent work. But I'm asking you now, I'm telling the ruling lawmakers, do you want to be a four-month-old interim MP? Would you like that, counselors? I don't think any of you would want to be a four-month-old, temporary congressman. So, Mr. Secretary, do you want a four-month-old interim ministry? Would Mr. Undersecretary like that? None of us do. But we're pushing these workers to do something that none of us want. We can't possibly accept that. It is extremely wrong to establish a temporary employment relationship between a worker and an employer. Look, at the time when TRT was a one-channel, there was a series of people who were captured and enslaved in the land of Africa, and sold in America, their masters were constantly describing the life of a changing slave; here, by this law, unfortunately, their masters will be constantly changed, but they will be forced to work as slaves, and they will not benefit from any legal rights. Dear MPs, we went to Ulus Amele Market with our Istanbul MP, Mr. Yakup Akkaya, where we met with the workers. At 5 a.m., I'll get a job today. Hopefully, the workers who buy their tools throw themselves into this market, where they're helplessly waiting, asking if they need men in every car that comes in. When we speak, they say, "We are hungry." They say, "We want work, we want food, we want bread." Here's the law that's going to make 10 million workers this way. People who are going to say yes, I'm asking you to go and see the desperation there. If you have any conscience, I'm sure you'll give it up. Look, our Minister says we're going to take it into account. It's a good cause, it's a good cause. There are already sufficient regulations in the legislation to record the worker off the record. Did anyone hold you back in 14 years and you couldn't record off-book workers? Therefore, the Minister of Labour's promise to register off-the-book with this law is only aimed at taking the public's gas. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's why we're against the law. Hopefully, he'll back off, as soon as this arrangement is enforced. Otherwise, his work life will be severely corrupted. That's what we call voting. We pay our respects.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0278par0057	Thank you, Mr. Demirtaş. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the first part of the bill, Siegel Yiğitalp, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0279par0061	Mr. President, there is talk of a bill that concerns Turkey very closely, affects the lives of tens of millions of people, but when we look at it, it's almost as empty as the AKP (AKP) who proposed this bill, but when it comes to voting, they'll all be here, immediately, without discussion, they'll say yes. "It may lead to the abuse of the labor of workers and to the birth of situations that do not suit human dignity, negative practices and the break of the peace of work," the AKP passed in 2009 at the TBMM, but on the opposition of trade unions, President Abdullah Gul said. On the grounds of his veto, he never dropped the government's agenda. In 2011, after Gul's persuasion, why was the last-minute withdrawal of the Parliament's agenda of the Law on the Collectives of Amme Acquisitions and the Amendment to certain Laws reassigned to Parliament within the Law Bill, but because of the rising opposition? Normally, the contract of employment is between the employee and the employer, but it binds the employer in many ways and prevents them from firing the workers in their own pleasure. With this law, the bosses will get rid of that burden. He will now employ private employment offices and temporarily lease them in four to eight months. The employer will not have to work hard enough to earn the rights of a worker, and he will avoid paying severance, annual leave and such rights to the worker. "Employment costs will go down, " says the government, "the employer will invest the employee's normal salary in the private employment office, and the private employment office will profit from the difference by employing workers at minimum wage. The entire process will return to the worker exposed to periodical work and double exploitation as a security job life, severance pay and annual pension rights, not being able to retire, low wages, pressure, injury and labor killings. I mean, lowering the cost of private capital and billing workers for the risks of capital. The current capitalist production style is already a wage slavery, but the worker, even indirectly, owns his own labor force. With the flexible working regime, the workers will no longer be able to own the labor force. In other words, what used to be a rental is a labor force, while the law itself will transform the workers into something that can be rented. This law will be one of the biggest attacks against the working class to protect the profits of the capital. As a party that embraces safe business as a principle, we advocate the full withdrawal of this law. Mr. President, there are very few valued lawmakers; I'm emptying the AKP ranks, and I'm going to try to talk to you by ignoring them just because they're here to vote.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0280par0066	They're here, they're here.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0279par0067	We can't see. Where are they?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0280par0068	They're here, they'll come, they'll come if you want a roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0279par0069	But, yeah, I know they're coming to raise their fingers, and their fingers are getting very tired. The loss of the working class will be enormous if this bill, which will be the most comprehensive since the January 24, 1982 decision, declares the surrender of economic life to the capital regime. 1) This bill has no legitimate and concrete grounds because, first of all, about 40 per cent of employees are unregistered, 4.5 per cent of workers benefiting from collective employment agreements, and according to the SGK data, there is no mention of the participation of the labour market in an environment where all sorts of jobs are subcontracted to subcontractors. In addition, the employer, who cannot continue to work for a certain period of time due to his own military, birth, leave, and illness, is able to work with a fixed-term contract of employment and meet the workforce need in this way. 2) With this bill, public responsibility has been handed over to the private sector. In 2003, the bill, which gave the right to put private employment offices to work, has now made the area of public responsibility commercialised. Employment is a basic right the state must assume under public responsibility. WHEN İSKUR is an institution in charge of this issue, it is not an attitude for workers to be disabled and burdened with the private sector. The AKP MPs haven't arrived yet, and they're probably excited about the Prime Minister's resignation, friends, they're gone. We'd appreciate it if you'd give us some information. Social media exploded, by the way.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0281par0074	Mind your own business! Mind your own business! What's it to you?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0279par0075	I take care of my business, that's my job, that's my job, that's my job.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0281par0076	No, that's none of your business.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0282par0077	Yeah, we're listening. We'd like to hear your good ideas about the workers.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0279par0078	If you're running the country, you'll be open to any criticism.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0283par0079	Mr. Heroalp, address the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0279par0080	There is no General Assembly, President, as you can see.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0284par0081	Yeah, it's right here. We want to hear your good ideas about the workers, about the Work Law.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0279par0082	I don't even have to address it.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0284par0083	Let us take advantage of your ideas.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0279par0084	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0284par0085	Okay, we're listening.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0279par0086	Yeah, I'm on it. But I want an answer to my question.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0284par0087	Okay, I'm listening. Look, the Minister is here too.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0279par0088	No, I was just wondering if the Prime Minister's resignation was right.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0284par0089	It's not that, it's the Business Act.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0279par0090	Okay. 3) The use of hired workers is not an exception, but a rule. The bill is said to have limits for hiring temporary workers, but the conditions specified do not constitute a real limitation. Companies can easily hire workers to give them a reason for almost everything they need. The world's examples show that as temporary employment increases, security, staff work is getting less and less. Rental contractors lay off their staff. 4) A severance package and a year's paid leave will be revoked. The worker will not be eligible for severance and annual leave, since he will not be able to earn severance at the same workplace -- most of all a year -- so the employee's salary will be capitalized for nearly two wages per year. 5) Work life will become erratic and insecure. The worker won't know where his next workplace will be from working periodically, which will keep the worker away from long-term plans, such as his family and himself. So the heavy costs that have been earned in the past will both be seized and the future will be mortgaged. 6) Retirement rights will be revoked. When we think that a worker must pay a bonus of 7,200 days in order to retire, it would be a dream to retire a worker who can work periodically, not permanently. 7) Unemployment will not decrease, increase, and subcontractorship will change shape. By law, subcontractors will become private employment offices, so the subcontractor system called removal will only change shape. 8) Rental workers will receive less wages. It is inevitable that there should be a tendency to pay the worker less than what is paid for them. Although the bill mentions equal conditions for hired workers, these conditions are not stated if they cover wages; even if they are indicated, it is difficult to have a binding condition. 9) Work killings will increase. The last three months have been a period of work killings since 2012, and 415 people have lost their lives in business killings. I've told you all these things, and I hope the government hasn't fallen because since I haven't been able to answer my question about the Prime Minister, I'm really curious about them.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0285par0099	Miss Sibel, we're listening.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0279par0100	But you're listening, and I'm not...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0286par0101	I'd like to hear your opinion of the workers in particular, and Mr. Secretary will answer.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0279par0102	I didn't get the answer to the Minister's question through subcontractorship.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0286par0103	Trouble with the workers. We await your suggestions regarding the Employment Law.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0279par0104	There were dozens of people asking questions here, but none of us got any answers. My real problem is...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0286par0105	It's about the Work Law, for example, people who work in household services; isn't that a good thing?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0287par0106	Keep going, keep going, don't wait for him to talk!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0286par0107	No, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0288par0108	No, I'm going on, but if I know if the government's going on, I'll go on, but if the government's down, I won't go on!
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0286par0109	No, no, no. Look, it's not relevant, it's obvious.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0289par0110	Mr. Yiğitalp, I invite you to the subject according to the 65th article of the Civil Code. It's not your concern if the government doesn't fall down, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0286par0111	Yes, thank you, Mr. President, the Civil Code is open.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0290par0112	But we're all about it, and we're all about it, and we're all about it, you can be sure of that. Yeah, we talked about your retirement rights. Retirement: In order for a worker to retire, it takes 7,200 days, but since they give a period of eight to ten months here, unfortunately, those people will not have the right to retire. I mean, under modern slavery laws, people will be sentenced once again to slavery, people's labor will be exploited, and they'll really have no say anywhere. Now, even the unions are going through a period in which most of them are getting political and only running politics through the AKP, while the implementation of these heavy policies through the workers is a policy that would not suit human labor, exploitation and the honor of humanity, and we deny it. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0291par0116	Thank you, Mr. Heroalp. In the name of the entire bill, Alim Tunç, Uber MP. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0292par0120	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers to make amendments to the Turkish Business Institution Act in the number 170 rows. I salute you all. My fellow lawmakers, one of the most important problems of our country is the production of politics in order to overcome these obstacles rather than remove the obstacles. What the will to remove a barrier implies is the discipline to approach it with a structural perspective. The point of the same obstacle is that it's easy to look at the matter from a palliative point of view. In this context, in terms of a philosophical attitude or behavioral stance, the concepts we come across are principled or the opposite of populism. What makes a political movement sincere is the principled stance behind it, and it depends on a strong will and courage. Now the AK PARTY is bringing in a new arrangement. This bill is based on the diagnosis of the next structural problem, the principled stance, and the consciousness of embracing tomorrows as well as today of society. There is such a motivation behind this bill because the AK PARTI has always approached our country's problems in a structural, principled and intimate way, and has never been involved in such an irresponsible way as overcoming yesterday and ruining tomorrow in order to save the day. Dear lawmakers, with this bill, our employees who have no actual legal guarantees will be registered today and will be granted social security; the continuation of employment guarantees for those who go to the army, the social security of those who work at home, a significant step will be taken to determine the conditions of those who work temporarily instead of women who are on maternity leave; the safety and safety of seasonal farm workers who work off the record will be provided; the meeting of our young will increase with this law. Dear lawmakers, this legal arrangement is implemented in the OECD countries and in the United States, in many countries, and in 20 European countries there are no restrictions, but we have certain restrictions on this issue. One of the most important constraints is that there is a ban on interim employment in public institutions and enterprises, and underground mining businesses. A temporary labour worker's decision has been passed that he cannot employ workers with a temporary business relationship during the implementation of the strike, thus preventing scabdom and securing the use of trade union rights. Another important thing is that our employees are treated equally as temporary workers, which is guaranteed. The maternity leave, sick leave, non-existent times in military situations, has been ruled for a four-month interim work relationship at the most in all cases. An important measure has been taken against labour exploitation, such as the continuation of work with the real worker instead of the actual worker, when the temporary employer cannot re-emerge on the same job until six months have passed. Dear lawmakers, I wish that the law of this bill would bring both prosperity and happiness to our country, our economy and our employees. Again, in the subcommittee, a representative of our NGO, where he gave an example that he went to England to study languages and worked there first, taking advantage of these temporary employment offices, and then finished law in that office and worked there as a lawyer. Hopefully, in our country, our students will be able to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...working, taking advantage of employment offices like this, preventing unemployment in our country; it will ensure that both our university students, our young people, and our employees work under legal guarantees. I, again, kiss the hands of all our mothers who will be celebrated on Mother's Day in the coming days. Happy Mother's Day. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0293par0134	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. The talks on the first chapter on political party groups and individuals are over. Now I'm going to do the QA on the part. I'm starting the question process. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0294par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, where will the training costs for these employment offices come from, so where will they be afforded? Or is this unemployment fund to be met and made rich by new people here? Question 2 will he not condemn the working class to slavery under the name of lax labor? The income, pension, annual leave, and health benefits will not be eliminated? Question 4) Will non-registered employees not gain assurances, or no guarantees? Another question: will union organizations not bleed out very seriously or bleed out? Another question: Won't the unconstitutional and flexible way of working become a rule? Aren't 7 million workers, almost half of employment, to be run unsecured through these slave offices? Another question: severance pay and a complaint settlement...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0295par0148	Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0296par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, what time is the unemployment fund used for workers, and is the rest used as a resource? Second: Do you want to be brought in to create a resource for the same reason as the fund for severance? Third: After receiving personnel in the private sector, especially in corporateized large corporations, you studied social media accounts and shared against authority after being positive in interviews." There are a lot of complaints about not being recruited by discrimination. Do you know anything about this? Do you have any work? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0297par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, child labor in Turkey is taking its lead in cities, especially in Gaziantep. We have children, especially from the age of seven, working in tailor shops in the suburbs. Do you have a project to prevent child labor in Turkey? What is the number of child workers in Turkey now; how many are girls and how many are boys? I'd appreciate it if you'd share the information on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0298par0157	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0299par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, during Roman law, there were plebs, slaves. If there was going to be a meal in a house, the slave owner would send his slave there, he would make his slave eat there, he would rent it, but at that time, the slaves were no different from the workers today, they were considered property law, they were considered property law. How are these new employment offices different from those days? Only, at that stage, the plebs at that time were objects. What's the difference? Can you explain that?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0298par0160	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0300par0161	Mr. Secretary, you said it would only work for four or eight months. That's the way it is in this bill, but in your speech, work will continue for the rest of their lives." You said. However, in this law, you've set either four months or eight months of work. What kind of work system do you predict for the workers after eight months, in the next period of time? One. Second: you had a point about the unionization rates of workers. By stating that the ratio of unions with the right to a collective contract of employment is important... This rate dropped from 10.6 per cent in 2002 to 4.5 per cent in 2015, so we are ranked last among the OECD countries. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0301par0164	Mr. Tin Man...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0302par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. According to Social Security Agency's latest February data, in the first two months of 2016, the number of insured businesses across Turkey has decreased by 29,527, the number of SME businesses has decreased by 29,329, the number of insured employees has decreased by 424,000, the number of people working in the SMEs has decreased by 344,000 people, the number of insured traders has decreased by 88,000. How do you assess this decline? Is there an off-the-record escape, or is the economy, in some sense, setting off an alarm? Do you have any interest in providing ease for our farmers, our tradesmen, and our COBIs, and providing support for bonus payments? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0303par0169	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0304par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, let's not just call this law "the law of slavery." But I'd like to ask you, what is the responsibility of the employees hired by private employment offices, the employer who employs them? Won't that bring in the lack of education? So it's not going to cause you the problem of adaptability? More importantly, there's a job murder going on in our country every day. Won't that increase the number of job murders? What are your precautions? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0305par0174	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0306par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I asked you in the first chapter: How many employment offices are there in Turkey? How many of them are local and how many are strangers? I beg of you, I must ask for answers. 2) First to Parliament 181 No. Why didn't you bring the ILO Convention? What is the purpose and purpose here? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0307par0179	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Now, I give my word to the government for answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0308par0182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me start with the word of Mr. Tanal. He's right. There are 445 private employment offices, and 25 of them are foreign.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0309par0185	Then why do you need it? So you do. Isn't the reason for this bill rotten?
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0310par0186	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0308par0187	Now, I'd like to point out that a question has just come in, specifically, whether the total number of insurance holders for January 2016 has dropped or not? I'd also like to inform our House of that. In particular, there are 12 million 749,000 totals of 4/A insurance in December 2015; 12 million 480 thousand in January 2016; 12 million in February 2016; 12 million in 495, 12 million in March 2016. Is there an economic crisis, or is it because of a painting like this one, or is it reducing or multiplying? The question, of course, may be consistent in its own name, but there is a seasonal decline every year in December, January, February and March, especially in employees, which is the same in 2015, 2014, 2013. I can tell you, I wish I could show it here: our 4/A-insurance number, especially from 2002, 2003, hits the top of the ladder in November and December, and from January to January, it's literally 250,000, 300,000, 350,000 down from where it reached last year. Right now, you'll also understand from the last number I gave you that there's been a partial decline in the stove, and there's a rise in February and March. This will continue on the same scale, and hopefully, with the same system that we call the ladder system, it will produce a result with a layer that will rise to the top of each year. Whether education in private employment offices will be provided from the unemployment fund, or will someone be rich from it? Let me tell you: No one is getting rich from today, but the measure of it is certain, how it is given, and how it is made. But from the training of employees at the private employment office, the private employment office is also responsible for the training provided by the temporary employer at work, especially for occupational health and safety. This responsibility has been made very clear in the bill. I'd also like to say that those who will work for four months and eight months... if there has been a request of the 7th article (f) with a capacity above its normal capacity and it cannot be met with its employees, and if the time is 4 + 4, then there is a job that can be done here in a period of time, it is very natural to provide a four-month interim employment office. Oh, that's what he did, and then that worker could work at work again, four, four months at the most, eight months in total. After that, he can't work for another six months, so if anything comes up again in six months, he can work. You guys misunderstood what I said, and that's not what I said. A review came, and the criticism was that if they were working as temporary workers, they couldn't retire. I said: I mean, it's not a work form; it's not a continuous way of working; it's an interim worker; it's a work opening channel; it's a work channel; it's especially the understanding of meeting women, young people, long-time unemployed. Otherwise, a person will work and work as a temporary worker for a lifetime; that is his own will and will. But the bill does not foresee it, nor does it present such a demand, nor does the law have such a decisive element. Four months, plus, four months. In many countries of Europe, there is no shortage of that. As a result of the agreements we've made, neither in the ILO norms nor in the EU norms norms have such a limitation. I want to rephrase our basic position here: I mean, we've come up with an arrangement that doesn't allow temporary labor to be replaced by permanent labor, as if it were permanent labor. The temporary worker remains a temporary worker, while the permanent worker remains a permanent worker. But I'd like to point out that I find the criticism of women extremely wrong, and I don't find it right. Because, in our latest law, when a woman gives birth in the law approved by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, until two months, four months, six months and six years old, she has the opportunity to work part-time somehow until her child goes to school. When he has the opportunity to work part-time, it's only natural that there may be a problem between his employer and the working woman. That is the interpretation of it, and the strengthening of it, and the enduring of its labor. Instead, a temporary worker from the private employment office will be provided and he will work part-time, and the other will work part-time. And there won't be any problems with the job contract of a woman who's given birth and who's had two months off and who has a part-time job. I mean, it's actually the complement of the previous issue we brought in. We're making a very clear picture, and I want to say that this is one of the important steps in the AK PARTI administration that could take our increase in female employment to a more important point. Our Department of Labor and Social Security on child labor has been putting up a fight for a long time. It performs various projects both with the European Union and its shareholders in Turkey and with its shareholders in the world. In particular, we have put up a serious struggle for child labor in the field of agriculture, and we will put up challenges again. This, of course, is one of the most fundamental issues in our country, but I want to make it clear to you that we should not give all those who want to use it against Turkey, who want to disrupt Turkey's production and Turkey's growth together, because in particular, false reports, false reports, and a number of incomplete assessments in the international sector, Turkey is severely, unfairly challenging. Child labor in the 6-17-year-old group was 15.2 per cent in 1994, while in 2012 it was 5.9 per cent, and we have put as much effort as possible, from then on to 2012 to today, to bring it down, and we will continue to put it down. The unemployment insurance fund has $35.6 billion from 2002 to 2015. 10.6 billion of this is paid as unemployment insurance, unemployment allowance, but all payments made from the fund were used to reduce unemployment under Law 4447, to protect employment. All numbers are transparently reported every month in our unemployment fund bulletin. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit05spe0311par0198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Talks on chapter one are complete. I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-04sit06spe0311par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 170. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the European Council's Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which was part of the 3rd agenda, in accordance with the European Council's Convention on Anti-Terrorism. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will no longer be available, it is now 14 p.m. on Thursday (May 5th 2016) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken by Thursday (May 5, 2016). I'm closing the assembly at 00, and I wish you a good evening.
