tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 98th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. I'll give my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Didem Engin, come in.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0002par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Foreign direct investors investing in our country are getting smaller every day. According to Economy Ministry data, the entry into our country of foreign direct investment dropped from $4.24 billion in the first three months of 2015 to $2 billion in the same period of 2016, so 52.6% declined. Investors invest in the future of the country they invest in; they look at the democratic and legal structure of how consistent and realistic the vision and goals of that country are; they look at judicial independence, the ease of doing business, the environment of trust, and they look for predictability. Without investment, there will be no new employment opportunities, so unemployment will increase. I would like to remind the government again that the necessary structural reforms needed to improve employment and improve the investment climate must be implemented urgently for democratisation, rule of law and a vision of a new development. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0003par0010	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0004par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, today is the anniversary of the death of Nazim Hikmet. I invite everyone to consider whether we have become a country worthy of Nazim Hikmet. Today, I am not satisfied with living in a Turkey that seems to be the center of corruption, theft, bribery, discrimination, sectarian strife, and I know that many people are not pleased. I salute all men to live together, and to live freely in a land worthy of Nazim Hikmet.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0005par0015	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0006par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, mayors, like MPs, ministers, like the Prime Minister, are elected like the President. Even though the social security premiums are all paid by the state, the social security premiums of the muhtars are not paid by the state, they continue to be employed as illegal workers. When will the mayor's social security premiums start being paid by the government, and when will the chiefs' victims be compensated? The Mukhtars have eyes and ears in the House and are waiting to hear from you on this matter, Your Honors. Can you give me some satisfying information on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0007par0020	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0008par0022	Mr. President, on the anniversary of the death of our immortal poet Nazim Hikmet, I respectfully and gratefully remember him. While our country is above the European average for electrical energy technical loss, does your ministry have projects to reduce technical loss? What concrete data did you obtain to overcome this problem? Two: Do you have a project that will reduce technical loss by forcing domestic software and infrastructure investments on distribution companies, if you have any, how much did your Ministry set aside for this work? Three: What is your ministry's opinion on the transfer of permits for mining licenses from the Prime Minister to the General Directorate of Mines? Four: What are the power rates, years and distribution companies' scale? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0009par0029	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0010par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. And those who do not walk, Leaving behind you like empty streets, Cut through the air and into two, Like a mausoleum's eye, Walking through the dark eye! When you hear it next to your shoulders, And your head in the middle, To walk with your heart in your fists! That they were lurking in the path Walking on purpose! From the heart, Walking with laughter! I respectfully commemorate Nazim Hikmet, the great poet of Turkish literature, who died on June 3, 1963.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0011par0051	Mr. Sütüdağ...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0012par0053	Mr. Minister, the US-backed Menbic operation has been assured that Turkey has been persuaded with 2 guarantees. The first guarantee is that one fifth of those involved in the operation will be YPG, and that the YPGs will be withdrawn from the region after Menbic has been taken from ISIS. What would your government's position be if the U.S. left this area to YPG or other Kurdish groups, as it had previously been? What will be the case of Turkey's interests in the region if the region is removed from ISIS? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0013par0056	Mr. Benli...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0014par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. We condemn the decision taken yesterday by the German Federal Council. It is not easy to understand what was intended by this move, but the admission of an event that is possible to be cleared with historical data is simply absurd. After all, the history of the world is the history of the Holocaust of the West. It is not hard to remember, for example, that Jews were slaughtered by Nazi Germany. Turkey has stood by the weak and powerless throughout its history, welcoming the Jews during the Holocaust by the Germans, opening its doors to Bosnian oppressed people in the Bosnian war, Kurds in Aleppoce, and Syrians in the Syrian war; this is the historical truth. The decision of the German Federal Assembly, which has not been established with historical data, will be a temporary result of a movement condemned to be rejected in front of history, such as any action aimed at disassociating the people of the country with political interests. Turkey has already been calling for a joint historical commission for scientific examination of the first World War I of which millions have lost their lives.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0015par0063	Mr. Yilmaz Tezcan...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0016par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I also condemn the German Parliament, which ratified the bill on alleged genocide in 1915 with the same feelings. We all know that hundreds of thousands of citizens who migrated from Anatolia to Germany have contributed to the economy with their culture, giving serious support to the German economy. In that sense, I'd like to rephrase my contempt for this bill. It'll be the first terrace on Sunday, and we'll start the Ramadan on Monday, I hope. On this occasion, I especially call upon all my fellow MPs, my citizens of Mersin, all our citizens and all the Islamic world in Turkey to be the cause of peace and brotherhood in our country and in all the world. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0017par0069	Mr. Copper...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0018par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. The Davraz Ski Center, which is located in the province of Isparta, and can be skied with the wonderful view of Lake Eğırdir, soon became the shining star of the Mediterranean with its track, its natural beauty and the number of visitors it hosted. However, the Davraz Ski Centre, which hosted skis and naturalists from all over Turkey, has problems waiting to be resolved. The season is short-lived as the rains are not enough, and the fact that they haven't had a second brace is driving our guests mad who have to wait hours to ski. This problem is vital to the future of the Davraz Ski Center. My questions to Mr. Secretary regarding this matter are: The most important thing to come up with in the short term is the second issue of demand. When do you plan to raise the amount of $1,500 an hour worth of money needed to be auctioned off as soon as possible? In addition, what studies are being conducted within your Ministry for the introduction of our Davraz Ski Centre?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0017par0073	Mr. Behcet Yıldırım...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0019par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. On 29/4/2016, we submitted a motion to investigate and establish a parliamentary research commission in Adıyaman, especially to determine the extent of the suicides that have increased in recent months and the measures that can be taken. I'd like to make it very clear that the problem is increasing and that there is a future danger. Three people we know have attempted suicide in the last week. For this important sociological problem, serious, planned work must be put into practice. In this context, sanctions must be carried out, especially in Adıyaman, in recent months, to determine and eliminate the reasons for the increase in suicide attempts. For the solution to this problem, I demand that the House form a research commission and begin its work at once.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0017par0077	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0020par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to our Minister of Energy. I've brought it up so many times, but it's still a problem. Most Aksa company Giresun is unable to perform continuous electricity service. Because all this company does is collect bills. In the privatisation agreement, although energy transfers and transmission lines have an obligation to be renovated by projected investments, it does not, unfortunately, do so. Thus, in many places of Giresun, 35 or 40 years of energy is being given by the system that has expired, and for this reason, our people are often, sometimes, in the districts and rural settlements, especially in the city centre, in the dark for days. The immediate response team to the malfunction... but its ability and ability are ineffective. I'm afraid our villagers are handling the malfunction on their own. For example, we've informed the citizens, they've petitioned the institution thousands of signatures, and I have the petitions now. Sadly, energy shortages continue in the village of Çanpınar, Upper-centerami, Belen. What projects, funded investments are you considering in 2016 to strengthen Giresun's energy infrastructure in order to eradicate this problem? We're looking forward to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0021par0082	Mr. Gündüz...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0022par0084	Mr. President, the German Parliament's decision on the so-called Armenian genocide is illegal and invalid on our part. Once again, I condemn this decision. At the same time, today is the anniversary of the death of the famous Master Nazim Hikmet. Once again, I remember her from here with respect, with love.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0021par0086	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0023par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. According to a report sent by the Supreme Court Chief Public Prosecutor's Office on November 9, 2012, many of our party executives, including Mr Yilmaz Karaca, the chairman of the then Republican People's Party Kayseri County Disciplinary Board, have been found to be members of the AKP (AKP) other than their knowledge, which is illegal to belong to members of our party, members and political parties. Mr. Yilmaz Karaca, our mayor of the State Disciplinary Board, who brought the matter to justice, is Kayseri 8. The Supreme Court, which confirms the original Court of Justice's decision, is now the fourth Supreme Court. The Legal Office has registered the irregularity of AKP executives. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister and AKP President, Mr. Buli Yıldırım, isn't it a fraud to become a member of the AKP without the knowledge of the people? Are you going to surprise us by asking the managers who signed for this impropriety? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0024par0091	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0025par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. I condemn the decision of genocide by the German Parliament on behalf of all my Çankırlı citizens and my beloved nation. The Westerners want to turn the truth upside down, throw their crimes on us, bring the proudest, fairest, most merciful nation in history to their knees, and condemn them. With Allah's permission, all their actions are futile. While our beloved nation wants to be erased from history, it proclaims its historic mission to the world again. It is time, under the leadership of our President, to again, under the leadership of the great Turkey, to present a fair and merciful world to humanity. Because the West has seen this truth, it's coming at us from inside and out. In the end, it's not what Zionism and imperialism say, it's what truth and truth say, there's no doubt about it.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0026par0096	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0027par0098	Mr. President, dear friends, I condemn Germany, who described the 1915 events as the genocide of Armenians and in this sense accepted the proposal of law in his Parliament, and all the MPs who voted yes to this offer. In this context, some Turkish-based lawmakers have also described it as "yes." In this regard, I also condemn these MPs, especially the lawmakers who went from our country and did politics there, because they decided against their own nation and signed it. I think that this Parliament, our nation, our government... in this context, these MPs, if they have the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey, should be removed from citizenship. In this regard, yesterday, in our National Assembly, we signed a statement issued by the mutual decision of our parties...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0026par0101	Mr. Konkar...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0028par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. I strongly condemn a bill of verdicts that were adopted in the German Federal Assembly regarding the events of 1915, which are incompatible with historical facts and law. Those who put forward this bill against Turkey for a deep prejudice, regretsup and arrogance were not involved because they were interested in the essence of the matter or because they wanted to contribute to Turkey-Ermenistan relations. The reasons for Germany to take on its special historical responsibility or to seek refuge behind reasons such as the support of the peace of the Turks and Armenians are unconvincing and ridiculous explanations. Supporters of this bill have led the Federal Council to a historical and strategic error for their political agenda. This biased, arbitrary and unlawful enterprise of 1915, which has no legal, academic and scientific consensus on him, has not been dealt with wisely by the Federal Assembly. This initiative means nothing to Turkey, and it rules for nothing. However, with 79 million Turkish citizens living in Germany and all over the world...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0029par0108	Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who are demanding a word. Mr. Levent Gök...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0030par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it turns out that yesterday, when an important decision was made regarding Turkey in the German Parliament, both the President and the Prime Minister remained indifferent to this decision on Wednesday, and they did not have proper consultations with the government of Germany, which boasted of being a friend of Turkey, which they had not been able to prevent, although it was almost seen before. By the way, in his statement, we turned down our ambassador to Berlin. By the way, I'm learning that the Berlin Ambassador has arrived in Turkey. Again, when the Prime Minister says no matter what the Constitution says in his speech, they say that they will be in order to carry out a president's presidential love, they underline once again how disconnected they are from the world, how disconnected they are from Turkey. Mr. President, this painting we're dealing with is the bankruptcy of Turkey's foreign policy, it's an embarrassment. The president, the Prime Minister and those who govern Turkish foreign policy have a very heavy responsibility. If such a decision can be made in the friendly country of Germany, then you, in other countries... We face a decision from the government, the President and those who govern Turkish foreign policy to answer to our people. Mr. President, of course we'll discuss this in detail.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0031par0118	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0030par0119	Today is the 53rd anniversary of the death of Nazim Hikmet, not only of Turkey, but of all the peoples of the world. All over the world, the words of Nazim Hikmet, whose struggles to the last moment of his life were not extinguished to all the peoples of the world, seeking peace, equality, and justice. Nazim Hikmet is the head of poets, the most influenced by all the world's anti-war and pacifists. On the 53rd anniversary of his death, I honor and cherish the great master. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0032par0122	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0033par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on 4 June 1994, I'd like to remember our friends from War Buldan, Hadji Karay and Adnan Yıldırım, who had been kidnapped and later murdered two days later as a result of the lists of executions issued by the Prime Minister and the government of the period. I'd like to repeat my condolences to our Deputy Speaker, his family, and all of our people from here once again. On a day such as this, we have been asking for exactly eight days about the fate of our Şırnak County Manager Hursit Külter, Mr. President, and so far there is not a single sentence from the Prime Minister and government officials. It is clear that he has been taken into custody for eight days, where he has been taken in his testimony by witnesses, and at which hour JÖH, PÖH, has been taken from their accounts, and at which hour it is clearly stated, our county manager is being forced to be lost, just like the War Bulls. The Minister is here. I asked at the meeting where the Prime Minister was. Despite all our systems, our concerns, why isn't there an answer to that question? Where's Hursit Külter? Why haven't we heard back in eight days? I invite the entire House to be sensitive about this, and I would like to inform the government that we expect a statement from the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister as soon as possible. Mr. President, on June 2, 1991...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0034par0129	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0033par0130	On June 2, 1991, we lost Ahmed Arif. On June 3, 1963, we lost Nazim Hikmet. During their lifetimes of fighting, paying the price, two skilled poets spoke of peace, brotherhood, freedom, and equality. If I die again, bury me in a village cemetery in Anatolia. There will not be for the oppressors who separate Nazim Hikmet from his homeland who say, "If I die, I will die." We'll keep singing lullabies to the Adilosh babies as a means of carrying their legacy. These are vipers and centipedes. These are the ones who put an eye on our vaccine. We're going to say, "Get to know them, grow up." And we're going to continue to tell our people all about what's good in the lines of Ahmed Arif. What a shame on our faces...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0035par0134	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0033par0135	I'm ending it, Mr. President. And this country. Our terrible crime... Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0036par0144	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0037par0147	Mr. President, thank you. We made a joint statement here yesterday as the group presidents of the three parties regarding the so-called genocide verdict the German Parliament received. This is a national stance. Such issues are important beyond their daily competition. On the other hand, when such developments take place, I can understand the critical approach to bringing a liability to power from here, but without understanding the historical truth in doing so, how can I draw a conclusion from here to the AK PARTI? I reject motivation and criticism of the mind. Your claims about the Armenian genocide, the development of so-called claims, are historically dating back to the 1920s. All of this, slowly forming museums after the 1920s, thanks to some documents, international initiatives, the approach of those in power in the Republic of Turkey for many years has been ignored. I'd like to draw your attention to the date I gave you. I appreciate that everyone who knows the mind and the history of not getting into the polemics in this recent period of 90 or so years, going through what processes, who was in power in Turkey, would think about all of this. So, they started in the 1920s, they tried to establish international connections, they built a pile, over time, the claims of a certain Armenian people, the racists, about this so-called genocide story...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0038par0153	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0037par0154	... He tried to make it international. To come up against these initiatives today and attempt to tender them to the EC PARTY is, in fact, rather than criticizing the issue, what can I draw from here to the EC PARTY? On the other hand, no matter what the Prime Minister says to the Constitution... they're taking the sentence and trying to get a critique out of it. That's an uncalled-for criticism. We all obey the Constitution. We all know how the Constitutions and the laws change. In one country, technical, legal, political conditions change, laws change. The Constitution is neither changing nor the law changing. First the material conditions change, then the laws change; this is what they mean. With the President elected by the public in Turkey, a political situation emerged. And the law has to be done in an appropriate way... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's an emphasis on what's necessary. Otherwise, it is not an approach that calls on anyone to oppose the Constitution. Nazim Hikmet remained in prison for many years. God rest his soul, he was a romantic poet. It's part of our culture, it has international fame. In what period was he tried, who put him away, and I offer this to our nation's discretion. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0039par0160	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0040par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, we demonstrated the reaction of three groups of political parties to the decision made by the German Federal Assembly on baseless, unsubstantiated allegations such as the so-called Armenian genocide. In fact, there is no doubt, indeed, that all of these decisions, which are hostile to the history of the Turkish nation, the state of the Republic of Turkey, and the nation, were sometimes taken many times, but we have to do accounting at this stage. When all these decisions are being made here, after the declarations have been announced, the reaction of the Turks is temporary, as soon as the ambassadors withdraw. After a while, they forget. It is time to give an example to those who say. All three groups in the Turkish Grand National Assembly have urged the government to take the necessary decisions and measures. In this case, what we need to do is make sure that they don't make a mistake in their perception. These altars, which have a hostile attitude towards the state and nation of the Republic of Turkey, must receive the answer they deserve. Therefore, after the reaction of Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President yesterday, the Prime Minister should not be expected to worsen at work today. So we have to have a very clear reaction. Both the government and the Turkish Grand National Assembly must take steps towards the issues demanded by Germany at İncirlik Base, particularly the rebuttal agreement. This is a matter that those who want to discredit Sevr, who want to constrain this geography, set out to achieve their unclean purpose again, after a hundred years. We also drowned them in Lausanne, which was rejected internationally.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0041par0167	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0040par0168	Therefore, what needs to be done today is clear that the government must also place very decisive actions and sanctions in accordance with the measures and decisions it will bring. It can't be avoided. Merkel says we are friends and allies. He says we are friends and allies. Would that fit into friendship? What kind of alliance is that? In that respect, our demand from the government on this matter is that the subject -- now that it's gone too far -- should rightly be paid for by Germany. We all owe it honor and honor to make them pay for it on behalf of the Turkish nation. That's what I wanted to talk to you about. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0041par0170	Thank you, Mr. Vural. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide them with a number of other problems with business safety, education, the problems they face with local people, the problems they face in the country, in which seasonal agricultural workers face close-to-season problems, can't make a living in the areas they live in, and therefore have the 98th and 105th of the Constitutional Assembly of Turkey's internalities and 105ths in order to investigate them in a comprehensive way. [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Aydın]] [[Ankara]] [[Isparta]] [[Erzurum]] [[Adana]] 11) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Scholarship]] 15) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 16) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 17) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] 19) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] For workers who migrated from one region to another for agricultural production, and returned to the provinces where they were at the end of the season, the definition of "massive agricultural workers" is used. According to TÜİK's September 2015 statistics, 5m 825k of the labour force described as 27 million 156 000 constitutes 21.5 per cent of the agricultural labor force. Half the farm workers are seasonal agricultural workers. According to these statistical figures, there are nearly 3 million seasonal agricultural workers in our country. Seasonal agricultural workers generally lack or have not enough land to produce agricultural production. This leads our seasonal workers to forced migration. Their work moves again to search for work in another area right after the ongoing work that has been done, causing many different problems with it. Perhaps the biggest problem our citizens face during these migrations is transportation issues. Several of our citizens are on the vehicles they use to reduce transportation costs, and in the summer, the news of disaster is reported on the screen. In particular, the transport of these workers in the Çukurova area is made by tractors, trucks, and vehicles that are not available for transportation. Another problem with seasonal agricultural workers is housing and living conditions. These workers often choose places to stay away from their settlements, and most of the buildings they build for housing are easily portable, made of cheap, plastic, fabric, and unhealthy materials. In addition, the lack of drinking water in their home areas and the presence of toilets near their homes are health - threatening. Another problem that seasonal farm workers face besides problems such as transportation, housing, is no doubt child laborers. According to the October-November-17-year-old group in Turkey, the Children's Workforce Research was conducted by TÜİK, increase 893, with 614 000 children working in the 6-17-year-old group, including 279 girls. The employment rate for working children is 5.9%. 349,000 of these children, 44.7% of them are employed in the agricultural sector. Among the working children, there are 49.8% of the students and 50.2% of those who do not continue to study. 55.2% of working children are employed in rural areas The problems we're talking about upstairs are just a small part of the problems that seasonal farm workers face. For reasons mentioned above, it is wise to open a parliamentary study to investigate the problems of seasonal agricultural workers in a comprehensive way, to determine their problems. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In recent years, the uncertainty and political instability of our country and our geography has been increasing. In this context, the reasons for the crisis that the tourism sector has fallen into, the problems of the tourism sector being identified, the measures that must be taken, including the legal arrangements to be taken, are requested with respect to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitutional Court. [[Mughle]] [[İzmir]] [[Erzurum]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mersin]] 7) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 10) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 11) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Aydın]] 15) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Sakarya]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] Our province is one of the defining provinces of tourism in our country. With its geographical location and its natural beauty, the tourism sector is going through a very stressful period in Mugla, which attracts tourists from all over the world. Unfortunately, the picture, which came out after the growing political ambiguity of our geography, and a Russian plane on 24/11/2015 insisted on violating the border despite warnings, was rightly lowered, especially at great risk to the future of the tourism sector. Therefore, additional measures have become inevitable. The tourism industry, which has been a very important part of our economy as the Republic of Turkey, has already been through a period of disappointments in recent years. However, the crisis, which is likely to take place in 2016, is very different and has far more severe consequences. Russia's crisis with Ukraine in 2014 and its invention of Crimea led to a significant decline in the number of tourists from Russia in 2015. The number of tourists, 4.5 million in 2014, has dropped to 3.2 million in 2015, despite fuel support for airlines from Russia and Russian-speaking countries. The prediction that the figure will drop to 1 million in 2016, with the most optimistic estimates, should not be ignored. On the other hand, the terrorist incidents that escalated its violence immediately after the June 7th elections have resulted in a narrowing down to 30 per cent of tourists from abroad. Considering the Russian plane that was shot down and the high-profile terrorist attacks that the process "solved" in our country has brought on the ground, it is clear that the "safety" element for the tourist has taken a huge hit. In recent months, the spread of terrorism in our geography, the reduction of a Russian aircraft at our border, even for good reason, the growth of security risk, the appearance of a high security risk in our country, and the problem of the refugee sector, which has caused instability in our country and its geography, will continue to have a negative impact on the tourism sector. For these reasons, additional measures should be taken immediately, such as increasing the number of tourists from Northern Europe, Central and Western European countries, providing fuel support for tour operators and airlines, increasing their flights, giving more weight to advertising organizations, effectively reaching these people using virtual media and social media. On the other hand, our tourists should be given support to reduce their financial burdens. In particular, relaxing measures, such as reducing tax and personnel insurance burdens to reasonable levels, lowering private consumption taxes, and early reservations, should be taken without delay to ensure continuity of employment. In addition, domestic tourists must be made easy to revive internal tourism. In this troubled period, tourism policies, which are not only piles of concrete, are essential to the development of structural problems. It is clear that if the additional measures are not taken, the problems that will arise will open the door to major problems. There is no doubt that it will affect foreign investors, especially in our country, which is home to world-famous investors in tourism. In this regard, great tasks fall to our Grand Assembly to investigate the problems of the tourism sector, especially with the tension with Russia, to address the problems that have been detected and to prevent potential victims, including the legal arrangements to be taken. In order for our Supreme Assembly to carry out this mission, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution 98th and TBM Administration. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures to be taken for children who have grown up and left the home, the Constitution is required to investigate Parliament under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution 98th and Turkey's Grand National Assembly. [[Isparta]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 4) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Mersin]] 8) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Mersin]] 10) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] [[Ankara]] [[Osmaniye]] 15) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 16) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Erzurum]] 20) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 21) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] In need of protection are the places where children who are physically, mentally, morally, socially, and emotionally developed and whose personal safety is threatened, neglected, abused, or victim of crime are being taken care of. What conditions do foster homes or homes provide for children and young people to be raised or socialized? What concrete opportunities do dorms offer for young people in terms of socialization? What is the nature of the relationship between young people from a certain social environment and the social environment where they come from, or their families, and the social environment of the home? In what way should children's future expectations, hopes, social values, and personality trends become evident in the process of socialization? Family structure and family relations, relatives and neighbouring relationships, fraternization relationships, opportunities to benefit from public communication in domestic life, social relations with the social environment of the foster home and ties with the school of young people. The foster home is determined by its social functions and its relationships at these levels. In socialization of young people who grow up in foster homes, these factors need to be determined and improved. Because the youth's future expectations, values, and personality tendencies develop through this process. The social quality of life after leaving as a minor is a concrete indicator of the way to grow. Therefore, the quality of life of a minor needs to be examined and identified by the efficiency of the care system and the shortcomings. The quality of care services needs to be considered as the quality of the person who has left the home and the quality of the life he has acquired. Purpose: The position of children in the social relations system must be determined by the level of individual growth in the child's domestic process, the tendency to actively participate in social life and the size of the approach to young people who need protection within that integrity. Having no family life is one of the most important problems that exist after the institution. Indeed, those who are homeless and who can't get married after a home and have a family are faced with the difficulty of living their lives on their own. Supporting young people's marriage after their home life becomes an important requirement. After-home life has been transformed from the conditions of growing up without a family to the process of entering life without a family, institutional care must be brought to society by providing support, guidance, and control for young people within the community. For reasons above, I propose and recommend that Parliament be investigated in order to determine the negative circumstances of our children growing up in the dorms. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Friday/6/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. It has been suggested that a parliamentary survey of the Turkish Parliament's agenda be held on 3/6/2016 Friday (June 16) for the purposes of investigating the corruption of elected politicians and appointees in Turkey, which is part of the section 10/191). The first speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is İdris Baluken, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0042par0352	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion to investigate the corruption of our group. I salute you all. We think we can best express the importance of this motion here through the December 17th-25th files. The files of the biggest corruption claims in the history of the Republic were reflected in the 17-25 December process, and the whole of Turkey has learned about public opinion and the world. You've had a long-standing share of power with the organization you call a terrorist organization. However, when a government war within the state took place among you, a dispute between the state and all its institutions, for the first time, Turkey's public learned from inside the AKP and from within the state how the biggest corruption files in the history of Turkey's political history, the biggest corruption cases, have been on the agenda in the last 12 years, within 13 years. There's no need to prove it, so the voice images, the recordings, the invoices, the information that's come out, the public debates, the very clear statements about all these corruptions, we've come to a very clear conclusion. In particular, a number of events involving AKP-based ministers, again, a number of structures established within the state were, in fact, files that should be investigated, cleared by the AKP's hand, and all necessary processes for the community in this regard. But unfortunately, since you've spent more time covering those processes rather than looking at them the way you should, rather than trying to launder them, the public is still waiting for the current question signs to be answered on this issue, and since they have no expectations of power and government, they're looking forward to the House. Turkey expects a commission to be formed in parliament and to be presented with a report that will satisfy and inform all public opinion on key corruption cases in its history, especially on December 17th-25th. Look, in order not to investigate these allegations of corruption or theft that occurred at the time, you immediately said that process, and the very next day, one or two days after December 17th, we gave the HDP two motions for research. One of our research proposals envisioned the investigation of these allegations of corruption by the Parliament, and the other envisioned the Council to investigate whether there was a process related to that coup you mentioned. If you had been sincere in your position at the time, you would have approved both the motions for research, confirming your possible allegations about the coup, as well as the fact that those allegations of corruption and theft have made you particularly likely to be contradicted from your point of view. But because you didn't trust yourself, because you didn't have anything to say about those files, I'm afraid you yourself struck the law after that. Notice that from that time on, all AKP's practices have actually developed as a coup to the legal state, and you have not made any clear statements about all the heavy, serious allegations that have been made to the public so far. There's a claim to penetrate the international embargo. The United Nations claims not to recognize their decision. We're talking about a number of embarrassing crimes such as money laundering, smuggling, bribery, corruption in the tender, which, once again, we have to remind you that all of these processes are the ones that have the most serious claims about eating rights. In those files, we see how an internationally-sized crime was committed. We see gold smuggling, oil smuggling, some relations with ISIS and the process of drilling into the embargo, disregarding UN decisions. Look, you guys think you're gonna sweep all this stuff under the carpet, but since you guys didn't push it, these files are being re-examined, re-examined in the international community right now. Remember that time, the amount of crime that I'm talking about is so terrifying that the allegations are so overwhelming, and the processes are so dire that we're wondering what you're going to say about it, what you're going to say about it. Minister's children were taken into custody, general managers running public banks were taken into custody, the minister's son's home received millions of dollars in cash, money counting machines, money deposit boxes, 4-5 million dollars in money in the home of a bank manager. I mean, all of this isn't the kind of stuff that you can cover up like this; on the contrary, it's the things that you need to clear up as quickly as possible. Look, there are allegations that Iran's money has been laundered. It's said that 87 billion dollars were laundered in this way, and in these exoneration activities, a minister in your era -- I'm reading from a government hearing -- is told that 52 million dollars has been bribed 28 times, another minister has been paid 10 times 10 million dollars, another minister has been bribed 3 times 3 million dollars. In the Zencani case opened in Iran, Iran's $12 billion money was also reported missing in this laundering operation. That's why Zencani was sentenced to death. Unfortunately, no official has ever been able to stand trial in Turkey for such serious allegations. You have to be honest. Now, you've brought such injustice to all these processes that all of Turkey's public and the people of Turkey have set their sights on justice from across the ocean. The number of followers on social media increased from 8,000 to 300,000 after a prosecutor filed a case on Reza Zarrab. Even this is important for Turkey's public opinion to demonstrate how much justice is expected of these cases. Look, the state's attorney's office in the U.S. Attorney's office now has the names of 91 state officials, the names of six public banks are mentioned in this dirty traffic, and there are more serious allegations in the White House; in a meeting with state and government officials a few years ago, Obama said Obama had told the state and government authorities personally and said, "If you don't do this, you will surely face it." So we have to investigate all of this. Look, right now, when we look at the file in America, we're dealing with something terrible. Reza Zerrab says he bribed his way out of Turkey's prisons. You don't mind? Aren't you going to look into it? How many bribes, who he bribed, how he got out of prison, don't we have to expose all of this? I have closed 25 per cent of the current deficit in Turkey. In fact, you're supposed to be investigating all of this, let alone the Coven, and you're supposed to be answering these questions. But instead of doing these things in the process, you gave plaques and awards to a man named after the ministers themselves. The head of this state is a philanthropist businessman for him. These files show how much money this philanthropist gave to the foundations, how much bribes were paid. Only $2,400,000 is said to be related to TOGEM, and there's not a single word in the TOGEM record about this person's name or the outcome of this money. So in short -- we can elaborate more -- we're dealing with extremely serious allegations and a very serious situation. We also brought this Parliament proposal to Parliament on the public's expectations of justice for these cases. It means we're all waiting for your support, and I'm paying all of you my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0043par0364	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The first speaker against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Kamil Aydın, Erzurum MP. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0044par0368	Mr. President, very dear MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on behalf of the investigation motion issued by the HDP Group. Of course, there's a lot to say about corruption, and we've said it over and over again, and even as the National Movement Party, we've declared December 17-25 a week to fight corruption. But right now there's a more serious, more serious issue on the agenda of Turkey, and I'm here to say a few things about it, and I'm paying my respects again. Now, when you look at these decisions that have been made over and over in Europe and in various parliaments of the world, it's as if our greatest weakness, our greatest weakness, our flaw, our distress in 1915, the events of the Holocaust? Why? Because, unfortunately, we don't know our history. As with everything else, we're in a number of practical productions that save the day in historical matters, and that day passes, but we don't have long-term programs based on science, technology, knowledge. The year is 2003. I'm going to say something in action from an example that I'm living in, and I'm going to share things with you. I'm also an academic. Why am I saying this? Because Plato says that the inevitable end of intellectuals who stay away from politics is being led by ignorant people. We went to America for an academic purpose in 2003. They showed me human rights, genocide museums in the state of New Mexico. We went, it's a small place. An old man at his head, sir, this is a museum of genocide. But while I was traveling, I noticed that there is a small table that refers to 1915. I said to the person in charge, "Did you open this place institutionally?" He said: "No, I'm a member of a family that was victimized by Holocaust, by Jewish genocide, and immigrated to America." And I've dedicated all my material possessions here to show my descendants, to show them what was done to me. I said, well, I also looked at that corner in a museum with a full Jewish axis, with a Holokost axis. I looked at that inventory, books, books, certain institutions, a few of those propaganda things that were taken from the Blue Book. You know, it's a book about geography that the British had created before Sykes-Picot. Then they confessed a political propaganda book. Now, he said, "Where are you from?" I said, "I am Turkish." He said: "I am a member of the 500th Year Foundation when the sects were fighting in the 16th century, in Spain, when the Ottomans were deported." But I regret to confess that although I loved you very much, although I did not believe in such a thing, I made a lot of demands from you, and I did not receive any support from anyone in authority; the material, the book, the document was not delivered to me. I received that note, and when I returned to Turkey, I came to the Historical Institution, and I gave this information. Later, I gave the same information to the Armenian Research Centre at Erzurum Ataturk University, and unfortunately, look where I'm going from here. Sultan Süleyman of the Law, you know, the Great Süleyman. Although he is the great Sultan of the glorious times, one day Beşiktas Tekkesi chats with Yehijah Efendi, the Sheikh, the Ottomans also said: "Will one day perish?" The answer of John Efendi is very interesting, he says: "My Sultan, how can it be, when the need for moisture is started in this country?" He says, "The Ottoman can't stand against it as soon as the need for moisture begins." Now, in response to this statement, the decision made yesterday by Germany, the German Parliament, we all said it yesterday, thank God for a great deal of time; we didn't say self-defense, just as in the years of the national struggle, we said, "We made our decision here." The French Parliament isn't binding, nor is the United States's is binding, and there's not a lot of international validity, but I'd like to draw your attention to its results, its traumas. Look, we have 3 million people in Germany. We got kids, third generation, fourth generation coming up. These children's textbooks will say that their grandparents are murderers, and these children will go home with this trauma and say: "Father, did our grandfathers really cut and slaughter Armenians?" But unfortunately, when we go back inside, we are subject to the same interrogation from time to time. Now, if we could just put politics aside here and put that determination into practice, like we did yesterday, good things would happen. What was the immediate reaction? Sir, let's boycott the German goods. Let's stop, let's stop, let's stop, let's stay away from saving the day, let's stay away from palliative solutions, it'll happen again tomorrow. Let's not ride the Mercedes. What are we going to figure out? You make Mercedes, you don't ride Mercedes, we make Mercedes first so we can ride Mercedes. First, we show that mental maturity. Now, what can we do? Sir, let's leave it to the historians. Dear lawmakers, historians did their job yesterday and today, but we don't clear the way for historians. Look, I'll tell you what we're missing: there was a Suryani table at the Historical Foundation, there was an Armenian table, and there was a Rum Pontus table, but unfortunately, these tables at the Historical Society are on the back of three or five volunteers, idealist academics. They went to Germany, they went all over the world, they gave conferences, they took plane tickets from time to time, and they did great research. Sir, when a small source was transferred to the Historical Society, the funds were paid, received, and indeed a new horizon opened in Turkey, where these Armenian documents were dense but not opened, forbidden. But, unfortunately, these tables have been closed, valued lawmakers, I don't know if you're aware of that. In this country, films called Ms. Salkim's Tanes remained in view. Please, I note that the people who saw that movie remember that my blood was frozen because there are two main characters there: one of them is a Turk, a fraud, a con artist, a rapist, a rapist, an innocent, a very oppressed, very beaten, honest Armenian character. Let him who wrote this do his reckoning. But there's a difference between writing and writing, which I've studied, and I'm also interested in the media, and sometimes I've looked at it, and I've looked at it, and it's done so many additional things that pass on to the script. So, now we're going to sit on the curve and talk straight, and we're going to ask ourselves before we answer to Germany. What support did we give the historians? Where did we open up? There's a Turkish-Armenian Research Center at Ataturk University, believe me, in a remote corner of the Faculty of Literature, it's a small old room. Is this what research centers are like all over the world? Now that we have a problem with a slander, we'll do what we have to do. Immediately, sir, rather than making fancy openings... didn't our Prime Minister and Finance Minister tell you we don't have a problem with money? If we don't have a money problem, we don't want to take RD from 0.5 to 1.5, we want to support research centers. A number of roads must be opened that will block Turkey's future politically. What are these? They're research centers, cultural films. I mean, let's not discredit some of our concepts. We're making a film about Ottomans, it's between 10 characters, like a soap opera, and instead of saving Istanbul again for 60 million TL, with this 60 million TL, Istanbul slips under our feet, so let's know that, let's get this 60 million TL into the research institutes, let's get these films done professionally, let's get the advice right. But we haven't done that until today. So from now on, we will become one body and all of us will be determined and determined to do so. Today, in Erivan, I tell those who visit the museums of genocide in various capitals of Europe, have they ever visited the museum in Iğdır? Pimp, he's in need of care right now. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Did they visit the one in Baku? No, they didn't, and we didn't encourage them, and we didn't take care of them. So let's get to the point where we can actually have it both historically and politically, to correct our inner perception and respond to the Cem Özdemirs in the German Parliament. But I'm here to apologize, I'm taking your time, but I want to say something to that Cem Özdemir. Their ancestors were also in the Ottoman Parliament of Mebusan, the grandson of Ali Kemal. Because Ali Kemal defended the British buffalo at that time...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0045par0381	Mr. Aydın, thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0044par0382	I apologize. I'm finishing my sentence. ...he defended the British buffalo, and he was indeed a British Manda, and his grandson was registered as the mayor of London in England. I say, O Cem Özdemir, you are no better than Ali Kemal. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0046par0387	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. The second speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Aykut Erdoğdu, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0047par0391	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on a motion to investigate corruption, a motion to investigate a report on Turkey's bleeding wound, perhaps its biggest wound. I salute you all. Dear friends, we're talking about this bench, why isn't Turkey a strong country, not a force in its territory, and why aren't we at peace with ourselves? And that's why, because these issues we're talking about are in this country, because they're unresolved, because our country is a weak country, it's being pushed, our people are poor. Now, you can talk about corruption for hours. I'll talk about energy in terms of the meaning and importance of today, because today we're going to discuss an energy law. A corruption law with its root is a law that will make the people poor, a law that will take the people's resources and pass them on to some companies. Now, when we say "corruption," the ruling party says "alarbe" directly. Now, I'm going to tell you what's going on in the energy, it has nothing to do with parallels, it's all about Court identification and the work of the Republican People's Party. Look, what's the most important source of energy? They're our coal mines. These coal mines were closed in 2002 as inefficient, the ash was said to be high, the moisture was said to be high, the oil was called, the coal mines were closed. What happened after the coal mines were shut down in public hands? Participants -- what I call allies -- have been handed over to the AKP by corruption to companies that provide financial, political support to the AKP at every turn. For example, we have a mine in Şırnak, our asphaltite mine, very valuable. What's supposed to happen when the government hires a mine? He needs a bid. Is it done? No. An evil plan has been devised. It was done: First the mine of the Turkish Coal Company was handed over to Şırnak Governorate, which was referred to as the state of one side, the state of the other side, the state of the state, no contract. Then Şırnak Governorate founded a company, Dicle Mining, this mine was transferred to Dicle Mining. One side's state, the other's state, no bids. Tigris Mining also handed it over to Veysi Geşe, Arrival Mining. Is there a tender? No. After all, who took it? He took a businessman close to the AKP. Is there a tender? No. It's the same, the one who bought this mine, was only caught selling part of it to Global Mining at that time for $60 million. The same thing happened at the Corrum mine, the same thing happened at the Soma mines. What happened after all these mines were handed over to the allies? A magical project has been developed, delivering coal to the poor. If you're going to distribute money to the poor, how did you come up with coal? Because the mines that were given to the allies, the mines that were turned against the allies, they had a marketing problem. What happened this time? The free coal distribution project for the poor has been developed. It's free for the poor. But who pays for it, who pays for it, who pays for it, for the fellow businessmen, for what prices, for overpriced prices. I'm not saying that, there are court reports, overprices. I mean, there's been a follow-up with profits that are far above the cost of production and transport per ton. Now, how does a government get coal? He'll get it in a tender. The government must tender what it will receive. So, did the government make a bid for these? No. They found a contract called Redevans. It's a phony contract. The logic of the Redevans contract is that he gives the mine he should tender without bidding, and from the mines he gives without bidding, he gets coal for the state at an exorbitant price. It was called the contract of deredevans. And they've decided that the state has a right to a third degree in any situation, a right to a third, a right to a third. &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; The government has a right to a right to a third. &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; They did the same thing not only in the distribution of coal to poor families, but in the distribution of coal to thermal plants. And because these allies didn't know how to run coal mines, they put the stone, the soil, even the dynamite, and this time the boilers of the thermal plants exploded, the thermal plants that produced public electricity were destroyed. If I continue to tell you about the coal, and you know all the abominations that have happened in Soma, and all the deeds that have been bleeding of conscience, your heart aches. The company in Soma is one of them. Soma killed 300 people, slaughtered 300 people, this company, families, and the company will get money from the government. Meanwhile, while people were burying his funeral, they hired the owner of the Soma company for $300 million. So, here are the AKP group presidents, how do you give $300 million to a killer company? You can't. I told you in the Plan and Budget Commission, there are fellow members here, they listened sadly, nothing happened. We're desperate. These Turkish Coal Corporations have power over the government. No one can touch it, our coal mines keep looting. It's not just coal, it's natural gas. Now, natural gas doesn't exist in our country, we import from other countries. And when we import natural gas, we make a long-term international agreement. Two things: you're going to make a 20-year deal. What's the price going to be for 20 years, how much are you going to get? It's the most important title. They came to power in 2003, set up a lot of research commissions, accused previous governments of treason. Yes, you have made such a deal, traitors, that Turkey is being robbed here. Hilmi Guler left in 2003, changing the Blue Stream deal with the Russians. One came in -- I'm telling you from the census report -- the additional bill we paid for a year because the deal changed is $560 million. Open up, look at the 2005 BOTAS report, it says, I'm not saying, it's $500 million. This deal is 20 years old. Total damage goes up to $10 billion. That's not all we get at the price. There's a deal with Azerbaijan, and the price clause says that it's not going to go under $70, it's not going to go above $120. Yes, the previous Minister Taner Yildiz has gone, he has removed this clause of the treaty. Do you know how much the gas cost? $400. We paid $400 for the natural gas we could pay $120 for. Because of this 2010 agreement -- again from the Court's report -- the bill we paid for a year and a half is $1.4 billion; the total loss is $15 billion. Now, they have a natural gas deal, for example, that says: "Russia, I pledge to buy 10 billion cubic metres of gas from you, and even if I don't, I'll pay for it." So many deals have been made that Turkey is paying billions of dollars for the gas it can't afford, but we're short on natural gas in winter. What do you have to do to prevent that? We need to build natural gas storage facilities. We haven't been able to build natural gas storage facilities in Salt Lake since 2005 because they couldn't give their followers the tender. They took $1 billion of projects from the World Bank, they couldn't use it because of this corruption, they paid $10 million interest and commitment to the loan they couldn't use; I'm telling you from the Court reports. Now, we've brought natural gas to all cities, they call it. They're all corrupt, corrupt up to the throat; they can't take over because of a company in Batman again in Southeast. Now, you can't take it to the city, you can't store the gas; what are you doing? You always pay for the gas you can't afford. It came to $2.3 billion a year. What did they do this time? This time they started producing electricity out of natural gas because they couldn't get natural gas, so they started producing electricity out of natural gas. What's wrong? Yeah, you produce water for three or four cents, you produce domestic coal for 11 or 12 cents; over 20 cents you produce electricity from natural gas because you produce imported resources. What is the result? Our gas and electricity bills are doubling what they should be. In all sincerity, with my knowledge, with my experience, as someone who worked in the government, studying abroad on the tax of the people, we could have half of today's gas and electricity bill, half of it. I haven't even been able to get into nuclear, electricity distribution, corruption in TETASH, do-and-do, electrical privatisation corruption. Yeah, they did such an electrical privatisation that they left 40 million liras in the company's safe. He's turning it over to the private sector, leaving 40 million liras in the company's safe. I thought you said when you privatized this distribution, you'd slip away, life would be a holiday? That's what you said when you were going after public resources. What's that law? Isn't that rude? Can you bill the ring, your loss, your fugitive? If these companies were investing. Isn't that how you sold it, to invest in buying, to reduce the missing fugitive? How do you get $33 billion from the public? Now, why are we poor? Why are we not serious in this country? Why has our reputation been shaken in the world? How did 80 million lonely and oppressed people end up like this in the world? That's why he's here. Is there a parallel when I tell you, is there a coup? I've always told him about your work. It's a shame, isn't it? It's not your money, it's all our money. I pay taxes on it. I have the right to be a servant, like millions of people on you, and don't pass it by saying "parelel" or "darbe." Come, let's stop this at once, or this country's unity, integrity, its existence is under threat. Oh, you're under it. It is not for you to go to Paradise, but to pray, and to fast. Don't take morality out of religion. We have to go through this together. I salute you all with respect, with love, goodbye.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0048par0405	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0049par0407	Mr. President, when the speaker spoke to you earlier, you took a turn. He said, "All this corruption was done during your time of power." The AK PARTY has subsidized its group. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0048par0408	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0049par0412	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, you know, they were coming into Turkey in the year 2000, which started in 1996-1997. There was a famous Blue Stream Project back then. The Blue Stream Project was set up, with contracts being put in place, with the plans that Turkey would get for about 20 years, that it would consume natural gas prices, that it would consume, and as the amount of natural gas was determined, I'm giving you an example, in 1995, about a million cubic metres, about this many billion cubic metres -- and in later processes, it was designed to go to different destinations, either by the al- or by the pay system. During that time, Turkey was encouraged to produce extraordinary gas power plants before 2000 in order to meet its natural gas need. These incentives may be true, perhaps according to the spirit of time, because Turkey had an extraordinary lack of energy, which was necessary to ensure this energy deficit, but due to the fact that they couldn't fully consume, Turkey was either wronged or forced to pay the extra gas bill before the AK PARTI rulings in 2000. But since 2002, in only nine cities in Turkey, natural gas consumption, expenditure, use, has been available, while today, over 60 cities have been exposed to natural gas consumption. Take it or leave it, Turkey isn't paying any extra money right now. And secondly, about the bills, dear friends, these are things that exist. A system that was created to correct something that existed in 2012 because the bill was edited in a different way, a system that went back to 2012, where the judiciary had a different outcome. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] No one takes a penny out of their pocket and they don't go after anybody. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0050par0418	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0051par0420	Mr. President, Mr. Elistash didn't make a move, but he made it look like it belonged to me when he explained the ideas that didn't belong to me.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0050par0421	Which one?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0051par0422	For example, for example, his statements about natural gas purchase agreements are not true, and I didn't say anything like that, so if you'll excuse me, I'd like to clarify.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0052par0423	It's already been filed.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0053par0424	Mr. President, opinions may differ, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0054par0425	Here you are, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0052par0426	Mr. President, he doesn't take it without teasing.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0054par0427	No, it's like, you know, it's a different opinion from the one he's been taunting or asserting.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0052par0428	Mr. President, I've given my opinion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0054par0429	Let's hear it, sir. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0055par0432	Maybe you'll add to my time, but I said it as a courtesy, and it's up to me to have ideas that don't belong to me, and you know it. Now, Mr. Elitaş said that the deals that were made before us... were right. They don't talk about the deals they make. Now, we've brought 60 natural gasses. It says, "You'll have to take it anyway." There's an investigation in 40 provinces of 60. He can't be confessed, he won't tell us, Mr. Elitaş, he won't tell us. As for the missing fugitive, friends, these are the natural monopoly of electricity distribution companies. It can't privatize natural monopoly because privatisation requires competition. There will be competition during the privatisation, they said. Which one of you can say today, for example, that we live in Ankara, we all have homes: I'm going to buy electricity from another company, except electricity. Can you say that? No, you can't say; there are limits, free consumers...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0056par0436	The distribution is one thing, the transmission is another.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0055par0437	Now look, there are free consumer limits.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0057par0438	He buys factories, factories, organized areas.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0055par0439	Well, Osman love, look, you're always yelling, you're a high engineer, you have no idea.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0057par0440	It's true, it's not always true what you say.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0055par0441	You were telling the truth yesterday, and you were telling the truth yesterday! Mr. President, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0058par0443	Mr. Erdoğdu, go ahead. Mr. Bak, Congressmans, please, sir...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0055par0445	Oh, you're welcome. I mean, you've got a congressman sitting on the stand not to let a man talk.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0059par0446	No, please!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0055par0447	It's not right, we do the same thing.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0060par0448	You have 30. We've got one and you've got 30. I'm trying to tell you something important.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0061par0450	Mr. Erdoğdu, go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0062par0451	We're talking about $33 billion. I just told you. The total value of corruption I just described is 150 billion dollars in 15 years. Well, don't you have someone to answer seriously? If not, let's sit down and look into it because it's our money. There's no such democracy, so we got 50 percent, there's no democracy to rob you any way we want. You can't do that, democracy doesn't give you that right. I mean, we do all kinds of corruption, we rob you, and then we get out of it. He doesn't have that kind of democracy, and you don't get 99 percent. You have to understand that, that's how we have to do it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0061par0454	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0063par0455	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0061par0456	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0063par0457	You have no right to corruption if you receive 99 per cent or 50 per cent of the speaker. I am returning his statement to him. During each election period, they showed who was corrupt and who was serving this nation.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0061par0458	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0064par0459	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0065par0460	Sir, corruption is justified in court, not in the chest. There's no sense of democracy like that, please.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0066par0461	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0067par0462	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0066par0463	Mr. President, he said that I disturbed the speaker by speaking from where I was sitting. It's not right, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0068par0464	If you promise something like this, it's a rule.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0069par0465	No, he didn't use anything of yours there. Not at all, not at all.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0070par0466	Mr. Bak, what sentence did he pick on you with?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0069par0467	Not at all, not at all.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0071par0468	Sir, he said: "You are speaking to the speaker from your seat. "
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0072par0469	Osman, he's telling the truth.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0073par0470	Sir, don't reward this.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0074par0471	Here you go, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0073par0473	Osman love Look, you're saying it wrong. No, everything you say is wrong, Osman love. Look.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0074par0474	Mr. Erdoğdu, please, sir...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0075par0476	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0073par0477	You're wrong. No, no, no, you keep saying it wrong.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0075par0478	Please don't pick on me. Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0076par0480	Mr. Erdoğdu, please, I beg you... there is no such procedure, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0077par0481	Everything you say is wrong.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0076par0482	Mr. Erdoğdu, I beg you,
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0077par0483	Sir, I did it once to let him know, so he could see himself.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0078par0484	Dear friends, now, when I speak from the stand and when I'm in position, it's an art, it's an art.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0079par0485	Yeah, that's not an art. Don't insult art. Come on.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0078par0486	I'm good at this. This art is a beautiful art, I do it, and everyone welcomes us to it.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0080par0487	Weren't you a wrestler?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0078par0488	I never insult, I only say what I say.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0081par0489	It's disrespectful to use words.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0082par0490	Osman, don't get excited, there's talk of natural gas.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0078par0491	Look, Mr. Aykut Erdoğdu is speaking, expressing his statements, his opinions.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0082par0492	There's talk of pep, revulsion, natural gas.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0078par0493	We've been listening here for five years. He talks, he says, he says, but people look at projects. What you're telling me isn't based on anything.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0082par0494	Tell me about the court reports you didn't bring here.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0078par0495	If you have it, the prosecutors are there, the courts are there, go ahead, it's as simple as that.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0083par0497	Where are the courts? At the palace...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0078par0498	You draw so many paintings that you make Turkey look bad. You say this is our country, this is our country. I swear to God, we're going out, our country is growing, our exports are growing, our reputation is growing.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0084par0499	Yesterday we got a slap from Germany.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0078par0500	Our country is growing, friends, remember that. Don't abuse your country, take care of your country. When you go to the box and when you go to the citizen, tell them the projects, tell them the nice things, so they can vote. Learn to work. So he came here and he did this corruption, and that's what happened. Is nothing right, or is nothing right? Yeah, we're finishing the third bridge, and you're saying, "You've cut down the trees." Ya, the bridge is finished, it's run out of resources, it's run out of resources.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0085par0502	Osman, what does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0078par0503	The Ottoman Vezi Bridge is opening. Marmaray complete, 130 million people passed. Istanbul's content, our citizen's satisfied with the services, and the services of the EC PARTY are pleased; I say so. So, no stopping, keep going; keep going with the AK PARTY. I'll see you in the box in 2019. Greetings and salutations.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0086par0506	Thank you, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0087par0507	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0086par0508	Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0087par0509	No promises, no misunderstandings. Just now, 15 to 20 seconds just to see what he's doing... otherwise, that's not my style. I did it for that purpose. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0086par0511	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Mr. Bak used a nice sentence, and speaking is an art. I expect examples of this art from all lawmakers. The second speaker against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Hamza Mountain, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Mountain.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0088par0519	Mr. President, I have been promised against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. I salute you all with love and conversation. At the very beginning of my speech, I am grateful to the 16 people who have been killed, killed, killed, killed, and killed in the village of Sarıkamiş in Sur, Diyarbakır Province, Turkey. If that 15 tons of explosives hadn't exploded there, if that heart hadn't been stopped by brave people, Seyithan and his friends, that 15 tons of explosives would have exploded in a garrison building or in a military service. In that case, for short and with a half a mouth, I don't think they would have done that if there had been such an incident in a military facility or one of our security forces. Again, I thank and thank you for the mercy and gratitude of all four of our civilian citizens who were killed by mines trapped in the manhole cover of the PKK terror organization. We've been fighting a war since July, fighting terrorism. In this struggle, I condemn with violence and exuberance those who weigh on civilians, murder, and have no conscience within the scope of their past habits, any treatment of civilians with inhumane acts. Fırat Simpil was a 13-year-old boy in Silvan district of Diyarbakır, and his father was a ranger, and Fırat Simpil died in a minefield on his way to buy bread. Again, Abdullah Birıl was a son doctor, and this doctor was killed by members of a terrorist organization when he turned his car around and fled after he saw an obstacle being made by members of the PKK on his way to lice. Neither about this doctor nor about Fırat Simpil have some academics, the doctors' rooms, given no explanation. Sheikhmus Sanır, 22, was a young man who worked in a soup kitchen trying to earn his bread, three policemen were injured while eating soup at that soup store by members of the terrorist organization at Diyarbakır headquarters, while Sheikhmus Sanır died there and was a Kurdish citizen. Makbule Vural, 64, died by members of the terrorist organization blocking Erzincan-Kemah land road. Ayten Günhan was killed by terrorists raiding the outpost and firing at random. Again, the taxi driver who took an expert sergeant in the garage in Şırnak province, at the bus station, lost his life in the thought of Lokman Bayar, a cab driver who had been known to have voted for HDP (HDP). Cizre, Bahattin Şeşik has been injured in Nur neighborhood and has again been wounded by the PKK terror organization YDG-H elements. His car was bombed again while being taken to the hospital, and here Bahattin Güylük and his neighbor Suphi Srak died. In Hakkari Şemdinli, our party member Muhsin Kaya was killed again in Cizre Nur neighborhood. So we can talk about a lot of events, a lot of acts by the terrorist organization. Now we've made a proposal for corruption, we've made a suggestion, what's the point of this? What is a talk about it now? Some questions like this may come to mind. We're here to testify that I've been an MP since 2011 -- that since the Energy Act was discussed here -- there have been allegations of civil massacres, or other laws being discussed, we know that there have been words spoken about things that have nothing to do with the group's proposals, and here, as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, as a member of the Republic of Turkey, those who say a lot of things to this group, there may be some way that their consciences will take a piece of this, take something out of that, they'll say a tenth of what they're saying here, and I hope that they'll tell the terrorist organization about it as a member of the Republic of Turkey, as a member of the Republic of Turkey, as a member of İzmir. Now, as for this group proposal, dear friends, the group's proposal was actually mentioned in just one paragraph about the December 17th-25th process. In fact, I assumed that December 17th or 25th would not be a big issue, but the speaker on behalf of the HDP referred the entire speech to the December 17th-25th process. The last time, in my speech about this process here, I said something very clearly, and from here, I said it was a coup attempt five times, December 17th-25th. Look, about December 17th-25th, on this bench, in group conference halls, in the squares, almost everywhere, about this process, we are no longer spoken of under this celestial dome, there is no more talk, there is no talk, there is no talk, there is no talk. Legally, it's been ruled untraceable. On December 17th and 25th, right after the election, there's no way that you can think separately of those audio recordings that were pumped into the press at that time, not apart from the fact that the MIT trucks were stopped, or that the meeting at the State Department was leaked to the press. And the date will be written the day after tomorrow, and it will be written in a process. The election was held on December 17-25, following the election of the presidential election, June 7th election, November 1st election, a verdict of non-objectation has been issued, and the nation has given its support to the EC PARTY in a very clear way, saying there is no return in its own eyes. That's all we said in Turkish. Let's at least say it in a couple of foreign languages, so maybe some of our congressman friends will get something out of it. Let me put it in English:....... or it's a coup attempt on December 17th-25th.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0089par0533	Is it the British Parliament?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0088par0534	And I'll say it in Arabic, and now you'll say Saudi Arabia: [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We sing in Arabic, we sing in English. It's probably clear now that this December 17th or 25th thing is off the table, so we'll be on our way.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0090par0537	Where are we going to put Reza?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0088par0538	Yesterday was yesterday's day, my dear, to say new things. He said to the master. I think we should say something new from now on. In fact, that's what I was going to refer to a lot of things that were done in the municipalities, but my time also got shorter. I'd like to make a few brief mentions of the speakers before me. The international public is interested in this. The international mechanism is called an international ceremony because there is no trial in Turkey. Here, it actually confirms what we're saying. We say this is an international conspiracy. The parallel structure, which received orders and instructions from the United States or elsewhere, is involved in an operation. So that's what we're saying, and that's where some of the amounts are pronounced, $12 billion. The last time -- not for bullying -- Mr. Erdoğdu -- was called -- was $150 billion. So when I actually heard about 150 billion dollars -- he talked about 150 billion dollars in energy and gas alone -- I thought of Nasrettin Hoxha's joke. You know, he comes home and buys meat, asks for meat at home. Her wife says: "The cat ate the crop. " She captures the cat, brings it, weigh it; the meat weighs 2 kilos, and the cat weighs 2 kilos. It says: If the cat ate the meat, where's the meat if the cat is here? If the 150 billion dollars flew out of this country, these roads, hospitals, three hundredth airports, the third bridge, how were they made, how were they made?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0091par0541	It hasn't been paid yet. None of them have been paid yet.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0088par0542	See, that's what people are asking, basically, you have to say something about it. Dear friends, I think it's best not to say anything about corruption and irregularity, which comes from the Bank of Provinces in their own municipalities, where the sums of money from the public's allowances go to terrorist organizations, members of terrorist organizations, terrorists, their families, who have been given resources under the name of fucking terrorists, the tools and equipment for the ditchs, obviously, to say nothing about corruption and corruption. Again, in the group proposal for the separation of forces, I'd like to briefly mention that. It's said there's corruption in the country because there's no division of forces. Frankly, I'm saying that it's impossible for the so-called mayors of the terrorist organization to talk about the separation of forces or to say anything about it, that they have to have elected mayors first. The group proposal says I'm against it, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0092par0547	Thank you, Mr. Mountain.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0093par0548	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0094par0549	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0092par0550	Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0093par0551	Mr. President, the speaker has also given me my name in his speech -- this 150 billion dollars -- to taunt me with a cat metaphor. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0092par0552	Mr. Erdoğdu, in that sentence, I didn't see any bullying, he just expressed his own views, and he expressed his own views, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0093par0553	Let me put it this way, Mr. President, for the record, corruption is about ink and water. Ink is corruption, water is clean. You can't explain the water with ink when it mixes. I'm speaking as someone who's talked to -- I'm telling you, he's had a lot of experience in the Treasury -- that's 150 billion dollars -- if he wants, I've got a book right here, I'll sign it to him, he'll look at it, he'll read it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0092par0555	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu, it's been filed. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0095par0557	The speaker's entire speech is full of taunts against our group, regardless of the motion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0092par0558	What sentences, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0095par0559	With half a mouth, you know, from condemning massacres to supporting a terrorist organization...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0092par0560	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0095par0563	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm not surprised to hear you speak. Since you don't have any sentences to say about December 17th or 25th, as you always do, we're dealing with terrorism, the state is in danger. You think you can pull attention back in a different direction and get away with it. Look, we've brought a motion to investigate all the paintings you're talking about over and over again. We decided to set up a commission, go to the region; we said there would be a number of you in the commission; let's keep the report, whether the state made it or the PKK did it. Why did you reject them? If you're so sure of yourself, why didn't you agree to one of our motions regarding the process in the region?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0096par0566	The PKK is already making the actions.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0095par0567	Our position on massacres is clear. We strongly condemned his burrito massacre, not with half a mouth, but at the group meeting and here.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0096par0568	Henna again.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0095par0569	The massacre at Merasim Street, the massacre at Kızılay, was done by the PKK or by the state without looking, and we continue to condemn and condemn.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0096par0571	Why did you go to the condolence tents?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0097par0572	Congressmans, please, sir, listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0095par0573	But can you stand on this stand and condemn the Roboski massacre? Can you come to this stand and condemn the situation of hundreds of civilian wounded who were murdered in Sur, Cizre, Silopi? That's the difference between us.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0098par0574	We condemned them on the commission.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0099par0575	They're terrorists!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0095par0576	So you have the search to throw a ball again about December 17th-25th, but from America, from international public opinion, these files will be in front of you. Do you know what's only in that file? Even this sentence itself is offensive: we can't bail Reza Zarrab. Because Turkey is also bribing politicians. I say if you want to get rid of this suspicion, you'll go up here and approve this Commission, and we'll look into it together. My respects.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0100par0578	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I'd like you to vote...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0101par0582	We have a roll call, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0100par0583	There's a request for a roll call, and I'll do the roll call first. Mr. Gök, Bayır, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Budak, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Arik, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Engin, Mr. Supremedağ, Mr. Karadeniz, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Men, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Bay Bayraktutan, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Yeşil, Mr. Yiğoğlu, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Bakır. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0102par0592	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0100par0593	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0102par0594	Mr. President, while Mr. Baluken was speaking, the December 17th-25 files have made some assessments that we're under suspicion, that we're throwing the ball at the crown because of their lawsuits. This is an open taunt. I want words in this frame.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0100par0596	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0102par0600	Mr. President, my dear friends, the coup attempt on December 17th-25th has been planned under the legal cover. In the end, he went through various stages. As the matter of December 17th and 25th was concluded, legal proceedings occurred again, not outside the law. In December 17th and 25th, friends who made some claims brought this work to the House. We've all set up a commission here. This Commission worked, a report came out. The report was submitted to the General Assembly and the General Assembly made its final decision. All these processes have been done legally. Now, I believe, Mr. Baluken says that according to our legal understanding, there had to be another story, there was to be corruption. It's not coming out, Mr. Baluken. You might think so. It doesn't come out legally, it doesn't come out politically, it doesn't come out as a social perception. You, of course, can make constant attempts to change that perception, but that doesn't change the way society sees it, the way law sees it, and the way politics sees it. Of course, you will continue to do your best, but please remember the responsibility of legal procedures. On the other hand, the case in America... there's no need for such excitement. Once he's done, let's get it over with. Why did Mr. Reza go to America? What happened there? You should have been more suspicious and impulsive about this America thing. Your confidence in the law and the judgments there makes you cry. On the other hand, the Iranian issue... Iran is a closed system. Yesterday's heroes, today's heroes, yesterday's criminals and today's criminals change very quickly. Don't be too sure about the law here. With all due respect...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit01spe0103par0606	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0103par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 98th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. In the first place, İstanbul MP Nureddin Nebati and 7 MPs' Law on Electric Markets and the Law on Change in Some Laws and the Law on Electrics Markets and the Law on Changes in Some Laws, the Law on Making Changes in Some Laws, the Law on Laws, the Criminal Movement Party for İzmir MP Ahmet Ken Tanzulu, the Interdictionary Chairs of Humanity and the Advention of Electricity Bills under various Names of Our Citizens, and the Proposition of Laws on Making Changes in Some Laws, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu's Power Market Law, and the Proposal for Agreement of Electricity Exchanges, the Proposals of Electricity and Electrication of Electrication of Turkish Laws, the Commission on Electricity and Development of Turkish Laws, and Agreement of Turkish Laws, and Developments of Turkish Laws of Turkish Laws and Economics and Developments of Turkish Laws, and Developments of Turkish Laws on Electricity and Economics, and Developments of Turkish Laws of Turkish Laws of Turkish Laws, Agreement of Turkish Laws and Developments and Developments of Turkish Laws and Economics and Economics and Developments, The commission is in place. The government is in place. According to Article 91, under Article 91 of the Internal Charter of the 99th Amendment of 1/6/2016, the amendment was adopted into Article 312 of the Law Proposal, which was considered to be the main law. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 14th article. I'll take turns meeting your commitment demands on chapter one. The first speaker on behalf of groups on the first chapter is Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu, Hatay MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu. Your time has been ten minutes, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0104par0016	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on part one of the First Amendment to Power Market Act 312. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, one of the priority conditions for being a country with a say in the world is, without a doubt, to have sufficient energy resources and to be able to use those resources correctly. Turkey's ability to become a regional and global force also depends on the use of its own energy sources in production, on the other hand, on its position and use of energy corridors in its region. In recent years, in our country, the wrong energy policies based on gas and oil imports imposed by AKP governments have unfortunately increased energy dependency, production's consumption rate has dropped, and the high rates of electricity consumption have not been achieved to an acceptable level. This law proposal aims to address the shortcomings of the electricity market in general, but is far from the rights of individuals and consumers, which promote electricity production. Precious lawmakers, according to OECD data, the world average of the missing fugitive rate in electricity consumption is 6.4. We're about 14 to 15 percent. In our country, the high price of missing fugitives in three parts of the 21 electric distribution zone is being imposed on all of our citizens, and thus an unjust and unfair situation arises. A change in the Power Market Law cannot be taken from the Court's municipality. The way to upload the lost and illegal costs of electricity to citizens is opened this time through the law. Cases have been filed over the price of electricity distribution companies to the citizens, as a result, the Supreme Court cannot burden the citizen with the missing price of fugitives. Despite the Supreme Court's decision, however, distribution companies have made the missing illegal bills invisible since 1 January 2016. So, with the new law, new loads of nontechnical losses are being brought to the citizens. The missing fugitive will continue to be taken under the name of the nontechnical missing person, and the loss of the citizen of the Supreme Court will open the way for the loss of a fugitive to be rebursed by law this time. The proposal also provides a restrictive arrangement on the authority of courts and consumer referees. In addition, the way to prosecute is being made impossible on the grounds that the missing fugitive costs are completely illegal. At the Commission meetings, it is impossible to accept statements by EC PARTI MPs that the Supreme Court's decisions cannot be above the Assembly. On behalf of the nation, every law issued is issued from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If you don't like the judge's decision, you'll change the law, like you're doing now. However, you should know that when the law is passed in this manner, it will not be approved by the Constitutional Court. Dear MPs, our views and proposals as opposition in the Commission talks have not been taken into consideration by the AKP at the meeting we held on Thursday. We hope that the AKP Group will consider our motions as the National Movement Party Group during the talks of this law proposal. Dear lawmakers, this proposal for the law, which provides legal security for the tariff, allowing the board to add new pencils to the bill as requested, has been a painful provision for the citizens. When the EPDK President's approval was first-guessed, we really protected the companies. We put ourselves out there so that we wouldn't have to victimize companies in the case of missing fugitives, both at a reasonable cost and at the time of some of the problems of the companies. We can't see the consumer satisfaction involved in the statement here. However, as stated, the work they do to prevent distribution companies from being victims is evident by this offer. Dear lawmakers, with the motion we've submitted as the National Movement Party, the process of revisiting the charges returned so far will be imposed on the citizen's back. This burden, which the AKP is trying to reburden, has been blocked by our motion. The proposal expands the government's state-of-the-art state-of-the-art decisions, increasing citizens' victims. According to this, if the subject of private property is determined to be a renewable energy resource, there will be a rapid publicisation of the areas involved. Although previously cancelled by the Constitutional Court, the activities of the privatised coal plants -- no matter how much damage they do to the environment -- will not be stopped until the end of 2019, and even the administrative fine will not be imposed. The proposal is signed for environmental plunder for nuclear energy, and exceptions are made by acting against coastal zoning and environmental legislation. This arrangement violates the 56th Amendment of our Constitution, which violates the laws concerning the protection of the environment. The government will continue privatisations by not complying with the legislation, not respecting the environment's rights. In addition, limiting provisions will not be imposed if the General Staff's positive opinion of the military needs is taken while the geographical position and location is being determined earlier, but will now begin the implementation of relevant construction projects without positive opinion on this issue. Any limiting provisions set by special laws will be revoked, especially in the use of land that is important to our security, from the Chief of Staff, with permission to stop construction. Under the proposal, the activities of the Mining Study and Search Directorate abroad, the quality of staff that will be employed abroad under control of and control of these activities, the mandate, the costs to pay for them, are excluded from the Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018. Dear lawmakers, it is also known that national stock control on fuel is made on the basis of the importer company's statement, not enough control over it. With this offer, natural gas storage is increased from 10 per cent to 20 per cent, but there are no provisions related to the storage and location of natural gas. Dear lawmakers, another change is also related to the scope of the designated distribution area of natural gas distribution companies in the provinces. The technical and economic requirements are being allowed to be redesigned or expanded by the board without being tendered so that they cannot cross the province limits, not considering the technical and economic requirements. It's hard to understand why distribution companies get jobs without being auctioned off. The proposal cannot be determined on the basis of the privatisation tender for privatisation of assets and shares in order to establish renewable energy sources or local coal-based electricity facilities. It's an approach that ignores national interests, and it's not acceptable to our side. We have submitted amendments to the freedom of rights in front of the judiciary to protect our citizen's rights in the meetings of our Commission as the National Movement Party for a proposal which clearly violates the rights earned. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Two of our motions were adopted by AKP lawmakers, while our other proposals were rejected. To date, consumer fees have been paid by court order, consumers are asked to re-invoice.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0105par0034	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0104par0035	This has been avoided by our accepted motion. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0105par0038	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. The second speaker for the groups is Didem Engin, İstanbul MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Engin. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0106par0042	Mr. President, Congressmans, today we're talking about the Power Market Law, the first law proposed to the House by our new Minister of Energy. So I've looked for visionary steps to reduce our external dependence on energy, which is extremely important for the future of our country, which is the first offer I haven't been able to find. For example, I thought technology investments in energy, RD, innovation would be a priority, but unfortunately, we see that these issues are not a priority for the government. The international energy agency's research into the trends in energy technologies is an important example of our country's situation in this area. According to this, Japan ranks first by spending 12 per cent of its total R&D spending on the energy sector, with Finland ranking 9 per cent to 2 per cent, Canada ranking 7.5 per cent to 3. In total R&D spending, countries that have divided energy by less than 0.5 have not been ranked, and Turkey, unfortunately, is not in the ranking countries. Technology is moving so fast that we're going through a process of change and transformation -- including energy in every field. For example, America became a country that was able to export liquidated natural gas and oil 40 years later by investing in rock gas and oil technologies. Our government is content with watching these developments, and then it is forced to import technology and knowledge from other countries, like in renewable energy and nuclear field. For example, since our country's nuclear energy technology is not good enough, the government is installing nuclear power plants in foreign companies with the technology it imports. In Mersin Akkuyu, the Russians and the French and Japanese partnership in Sinop have conducted these projects. However, the Minister's example is that America, France, Japan, China, Russia are able to build these plants with their own technology, without being dependent on any other country. On the other hand, I thought there were steps to energy efficiency in the bid, because it's as important to consume energy as it is to produce energy, but unfortunately, there's no regulation on it. Even the European Union warns us in the Turkey Progress Report for 2015 and says there has been no progress in our country on energy efficiency. The World Bank published the Republic of Turkey: The Energy Efficiency Corporate Review Report says: "Energy efficiency will be critical in continuing the economic growth process of Turkey in a sustainable way. " The World Bank is drawing attention to the importance of energy efficiency in the development of our country. We regret to see that other countries advise the AKP government to focus on energy efficiency. However, if the AKP, implementing a construction sector-based development plan, had been able to develop a vision of energy efficiency even in newly constructed buildings over the past 14 years, our country would be at a very different point in energy consumption today. It's very important to be able to direct and direct growth properly. That's where the vision difference or visionlessness comes in. All this stuff I'm talking about, technology, innovation, RD, efficiency, that's not part of the bill. So, what do we got? There are regulations brought by the AKP (AKP) to prevent the return of illegal bills to our citizens, to rule out the rights earned in court by enforcing law. I will share with you all the details of the government's proposal, which violates the rights of our citizens, while the relevant substances are being discussed. Another issue in the law proposal is to prioritize investments in electricity production from domestic coal and guarantee purchase. Everyone goes to Mersin, we go to the contrary. There's a saying like that. Almost all the countries in the world are planning to reduce the share of coal in electrical production portfolios, while our government, on the contrary, takes steps to increase the share of coal in its portfolio. These decisions are made, knowing that the quality of domestic coal is low, so it requires more investment, and that human health, nature, agriculture is more damaged than other quality coal species. Because of international contracts and global sensitivity in this regard, even export loan companies and Eximbank have no longer supported and funded such coal investments and projects. I think the government will ask China for funding for these projects. People know what Chinese cities have become because of their coal investments, health problems in China because of air pollution. In developed countries, governments are seeking and competing to offer a better quality of life to their own citizens. They're trying to reduce air pollution, improve quality of life, give their citizens a more comfortable way of life. We don't have the value of human life, unfortunately. On April 22nd, when the Minister of Environment and Urbanism signed the Paris Convention on Climate Change, he said today was a historic day. He promised to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to the world. So either he didn't read the text he signed or he didn't know about the Department of Energy's work, his plans. While our government is encouraging the private sector to invest in coal, I'd like to brief you on what other countries are doing. In 2015, global renewable energy investments reached $286 billion. As compared to 2004, investments increased by six times, and in 2015, more than half of the new capacity growth in electricity production was renewable. Technological advances in renewable energy are moving so fast that costs are dropping rapidly because of these technological advances. International consulting companies' reports on global energy trends predict that wind energy costs will decrease by 32 per cent and solar energy costs by 48 per cent. According to patents on renewable energy, America, Japan, Germany, Korea and Taiwan are competing. In 2050, Germany aims to acquire 80 per cent of electricity from the sun and wind, and they invest a great deal in clean energy. In particular, it encourages new technologies to store energy from renewable sources. And since our government is watching these developments, in a few years, we'll probably have to import renewable energy storage technology from Germany. What else is in the bill? Nuclear power plants have been given an excuse to build and build military areas, beaches, beaches, olive groves. It's supposedly an arrangement for Mersin Akkuyu, but the content of the substance is so broad that it can be decided for any shore or military area. Also, construction of structures that are not directly related to the production facility is necessary for the nuclear power plant before it is licensed to produce. So, without permission, approval, registration, license, and so on, the construction of these structures will begin. On the other hand, there's a substance that's meant to promote rapid publicisation using renewable energy as an excuse. This is one of the obvious indicators of AKP's rant-oriented approach. A law that concerns all our citizens and has such important issues for the future of our country, unfortunately we haven't been able to speak in detail on the commission. Less than 24 hours after the information meeting, the commission was convened the very next day, and we asked for additional time to investigate, and the AKP was rejected; I demanded the opinion of the Environment Commission to be asked, and it was rejected again. The proposal of the law was rushed through the commission, and I was obliged as a member of parliament to describe the way this law was discussed in the commission during the meeting as pathetic. I, the MP, am responsible for my people, and I work with this sense of responsibility, and I expect the government and the ruling party to work with the same sense of responsibility. Meanwhile, the Energy Minister did not feel the need to attend the Commission talks, but made the opening statement at the beginning of the meeting and left the meeting. However, Mr. Secretary, in his opening speech, the intelligent person is the one who uses the mind, the wiser person is the one who uses the mind of others; we all need the mind of others. He said, "We all need the mind of others." But he disagreed with the Commission's talks, but he followed a conflicting attitude in his own words. However, a person who trusts himself and his decisions should not avoid a debate of opinion. The Minister's first proposal of the law is an indication of what can be prepared from now on. This bill could quickly pass through Parliament with AKP votes, but the community would leave an irreversible mark on its conscience. You have no right to abuse this power, to abuse that trust because our citizens trusted and voted for you, for giving you the power to rule our country alone. Remember, our people know how to take back the trust, just as they entrusted you with power. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0107par0057	Thank you, Mr. Engin. Third speaker for the groups, Berdan Özturk on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ağrı MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0108par0062	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group for the first chapter of Power Market Law Bill 312. I salute the General Assembly. As you all know, recent proposals and proposals against both the Constitution and the fundamental principles of the law have been brought to parliament. In the same way, this bill violates many of the Constitution's rulings. I'd like to give you two examples of these open discrepancies from our Constitution, particularly the 40th and 56th. With the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms in Article 40, the right of all people to live in a healthy and balanced environment in Article 56 is destroyed by this bill. This bill -- rather than its reasons, its purpose -- is required to express its true purpose. As a result of the judicial decision, the law is passed to reassess lost and illegal costs from all electricity subscribers, which have been forced to be returned by distribution companies. That's one of the main goals of this law. The missing and illegal costs collected from electricity users will be re-enacted in the bills due to lawsuits that have been filed so far, so that citizens who have paid the price of missing and fugitives will have no flaws or responsibilities, but will also have to pay the amount returned as a reciprocal. So the costs that have been returned so far have been recycled to the bills. After that, the lawsuits will be dismissed on the grounds that it is illegal. Collecting lost and illegal costs is not only legalized, but also allowed to increase lost and illegal costs collected by the EPDK (EPDK), which have been collected in bills in an arbitrary manner, based on changes in target losses and fugitive rates. This is also a violation of the rights earned by the fundamental principles of the law, and it is clearly incompatible with our Constitution's -- the 40th article, as I have just stated above. The proposed law is actually the final step where AKP's neoliberal developmental rhetoric is materialized and let them do it, let them pass. He stands before us as a king more royal than the king, disregarding the future of the country, with his unbridled desire for profit covered in every legal cover. Our common future is already being mortgaged by shutting down building control and zoning law for nuclear power plants. The trade culture is institutionalised by guarantees and incentives for coal plants run by subsidiary companies. We know from world examples what kind of disaster the AKP government will lead us to inexhaustible love for nuclear energy. In September 2015, he stood up with reports of radioactive symptoms on the west coast of Canada. On the coast of British Columbia, Canada's dangerous cesium 134 was detected, and the Canadian public reacted greatly. Again, the effects of the 2011 Fukushima disaster continue to manifest themselves four years later, despite all measures taken. In March 2011, the catastrophe in 209 km northeast of Tokyo left 160,000 people in their homes and became the greatest nuclear disaster since Chernobyl. Officials say they need a few more years to determine exactly the extent of the Fukushima disaster. The AKP may have forgotten the government and its people who were ready to be betrayed, but we haven't forgotten, let's tell one thing about what happened to the government: one of the main causes of the Fukushima disaster was the power outage. The 8.9 earthquake that rocked the country caused a power outage. It's good to remind you that nuclear power plants have a facility that has the least tolerance for power outages. We've been informed by experts that every reactor in a nuclear facility contains a large amount of radioactive material. In every power outage or simple transformer failure, the nuclear power plant stops working because it can't get power from the grid. The radioactive materials found inside the reactor continue to generate very high levels of heat, even if the plant stops working. As the plant stops, the cooling systems stop, and the power plant turns into a time bomb. The continuous heat-generating reactor soon begins to melt and cause a nuclear leak. The only way to prevent this leak is to keep the reactor cool at all times. This is done through pumps that supply thousands of liters of water per minute to each reactor. The only thing powering these pumps in a possible power outage is diesel generators. There's no way to stop the nuclear leak if these generators don't kick in or fail. Now, I have to ask the government's authorities: how are you going to take precautions in a country where power cuts have become a routine that takes hours? I'm sure the government and the profit partners who drafted this law and supported it here never thought of it, because all you're thinking about is the unbridled demand of money. You don't care if the money comes in the shoeboxes or if it comes in a nuclear disaster. President Erdogan, despite all this negativity, has given us the good news of three nuclear plants. The first of these plants, Akkuyu, is one of our three nuclear plants. So, who do you think got the bid? On December 25, the nation was given Genghis Holdings, the chairman of the Governing Body of Mehmet Genghis, the owner of the mining business in Artvin Cerattepe. The power plant to Akkuyu costs $20 billion. Mr. President, high-tech lawmakers, with what technology, with what technology will you prevent crises that even countries like Japan, Sweden, can't manage? As the whole world abandons nuclear power, it's a shame that the public will still have to pay for our attempt to transfer to nuclear energy. Well, who's gonna be happy about that? They're a bunch of investors who get a lot of credit from these projects, and their contractors will be happy. Again, this bill you've prepared provides restrictions on the use of renewable energy sources from a renewable energy resource document, while in turn predicting the sale of extortion auctions without the value of public power plants. Under the regulation requested, the law shall not be carried out on the basis of the installation and activities of the coastal law and on the immunisation of Olivery's Correctional and Wilds, as well as on the specific safety zones in which it is declared to be a private safety zone, and on the basis of its petrochemistry facilities and additions and nuclear power plant projects. For nuclear power plants with huge risks and costs, the AKP has not only abandoned the country's future, but also the shores and olive groves entrusted to our children. Although Turkey is a clean, renewable, reliable, environmentally friendly country, it is well known that the AKP's government insists on nuclear energy despite all risks and threats. It is clear from this proposal that those who claim that the world is greater than 5, continue quickly to mortgage our nature, our future, and turn this country into a looting and looting area to join the capitalist system established by 5 elders. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0109par0079	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. On behalf of the groups, the talks are over. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have asked for a word on their behalf. First speaker on behalf of Hasan Sert, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Hard. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Hard, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0110par0086	Mr. President and the esteemed MPs, I salute the High Council. I have made a promise to address the first chapter of the first chapter of the proposal to change the Power Market Law, 312 rows. You know the law proposal is 29 articles, 12 laws have been changed, and 2 new clauses added. As a member of the Commission for Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology, we have worked for a long time in preparation for this law. Together with our fellow Republican People's Party and the National Movement Party, we have done our best to mature this law, and we have done a serious performance. When these regulations on the electricity market are examined during the draft of this law, the Law on Mine Review and Search General Directorate, the Law on Military Forbidden Areas and Security Areas, the Law on Atomic Energy Foundation of Turkey, Energy and Natural Resources Ministry's Agency and Missions, the Law on the Organization and Jobs of the Energy Market Editorship, the Mining Law, the Law on Natural Gas Market, the Public Requital Law, the Law on Liquid Oil Gas Gas Markets and Electrical Marketing of Renewable Energy Resources. We see that using more domestic and renewable energy in these regulations, making new regulations for market structures, promoting natural gas use and supply security arrangements, moving forward in mining, improving bureaucratic processes, bringing underground resources into the economy, dividing coal license fields, preventing flu explosions and mining accidents, increasing supply security, reducing external dependence in energy, facilitating investment processes, reducing investment processes, reducing the use of local coal. In 2015, energy imports are $38 billion, and 18 per cent of total imports are energy imports. Energy imports include 43 per cent natural gas, 32 per cent oil, 21 per cent coal. Again, we see 55 per cent of energy imports taken from Russia, 18 per cent from Iran, 12 per cent from Azerbaijan, and 8 per cent from Algeria. However, as of 2015, 35 per cent of imported products are made up of natural gas, 16 per cent of imported coal, and 12 per cent of liquid fuel. Turkey is the second country in Europe, with 670 production companies in the electric field, 1 transport company, 21 distribution companies and 21 authorized supply companies. Again, the opposition remained on the subject of the missing fugitive, saying that the law is related to the missing fugitive -- most of which is Diyarbakır, Şanlıurfa, Mardin, Batman, Siirt and Şırnak. Here's the average, 62 percent of the city centers, 87 percent of the villages are missing. Instead of saying, "Don't go and pay the people there, don't pay the electricity money, don't pay the government. " My dear friends, I condemn the decision made by the German Federal Assembly when I stopped speaking. I wish the German government would refrain from actions that would harm Turkish-German friendship. I'm critical of the provocative language used by some friends in Congress. I demand a review of the Civil Code immediately. I condemn groups accusing each other of insulting each other. In every law that comes out, I wish to avoid the scepticisms that say, "There will be many benefits to one another. " Countries grow in economics and trade. I reject an understanding that sees business as criminal, sees investor as guilty, sees entrepreneur as guilty. You all know that Tansu Chiller gave a dollar to the Blackbuke Iron Steel Factory. We have worked in many countries around the world, and I have worked in over 50 countries, and I have been more of a business representative. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I know that countries all over the world give a businessman special consideration and incentives. And in our country, I'd like to extend my regards to the businessman for the necessary road-launching measures.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0111par0098	Thank you, Mr. Hard.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0112par0099	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0111par0100	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0112par0101	Mr. orator said that there are 62 percent missing fugitives in the city and 87 percent missing in the villages in Şanlıurfa. All over the city, Urbana accused 62 of stealing from every 100 people living in the center of the village, accusing 87 of stealing from every 100 people in the village. I'd like word on that for bullying.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0111par0102	Your words are in the transcripts, Mr. Tanal. Your honor, there is no direct bullying in this conversation, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0112par0103	But, Mr. President, he has no right to accuse my city of stealing so much that I've died on its land, that I've found life.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0111par0104	Now, this is how I understood the conversation: I mean, he talked about the missing number of fugitives in the city, and every 100 people as individuals did not use a sentence that meant they were using illegal electricity or stealing.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0113par0105	I never accused anyone of stealing. Don't Demagoji Mr. Mahmut.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0111par0106	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0114par0107	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0111par0108	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0114par0109	During his speech, the MPs who went to Diyarbakır province were also preaching to them, "Don't pay the people who went there, use illegal electricity." He said. As a Diyarbakır MP, I have to answer this as an MP who goes to Diyarbakır all the time.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0111par0110	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0114par0114	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish the congressman had mentioned the names of the MPs who used those phrases, would have been more comfortable to discuss them with him. However, no MP can enter into a search in a different way using sentences as he talks about. As the People's Democratic Party, we are also expressing a situation that we have defended in our election declaration. We say, as a social state, the right to housing, the right to energy and the right to water should be met by the social state. In areas where income distribution is unfair, where regional inequality is in front of all of us, unemployment, poverty, hunger is consciously advanced, we argue that energy should be given by the state for free until a certain kilovatsaate. I mean, we can discuss it if that's what you mean, but other than that, you can't possibly come forward and say different things. On the other hand, by counting all the names of all the provinces, I'm surprised you'd say that there are some of the biggest illegal energy pens in the world. This is a segregated language. So, if you're wondering about the smuggling, the missing fugitive, I suggest you look at the costs of the million-dollar palaces first.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0115par0118	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0114par0119	Take a look at the billions of dollars floating in the air in the illegal gold trade that appeared in the files in the United States, I recommend.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0116par0120	It's the same saying all the time.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0114par0121	And again, I want you to look at how all of this country's resources have been siphoned by someone, and how these nuclear power plants, the companies that you're going after, are drawn into a million-dollar tax debt. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0117par0124	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Second speaker on behalf of him, Tahsin Tarhan, Alderman. Here you are, Mr. Tarhan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0118par0132	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge in the first chapter of Law Proposal 312. I salute you all. This General Assembly is an environment where ideas, criticisms and proposals will be freely expressed. In his speech on the general part of the bill, however, Mr. Minister actually came to the stand and said, "Mr. MPs, please listen to me." He spoke for 15 minutes as if he were explaining the government program. I asked my friends: "Please don't make small talk. We need young, educated politicians like this. We've listened for fifteen minutes, he's told us about Turkey's energy policies; where are we in imports, how much energy we need in ten years. We understood 15 minutes, but after 15 minutes, he never listened to opposition parties' proposals, started blaming opposition parties for nothing but opposition parties' speeches. When we came to questions and answers, he never answered any of our friends' questions. Mr. Secretary, you have a good education, you have a master's degree in energy, but not in nuclear power, but in renewable energy. You're young, our friends are asking you about nuclear energy, and you're reacting, and you're saying, "You've defied the Menderes era, and you've defied the bridge."
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0119par0135	To the period of autonomy...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0118par0136	Mr. Secretary, we are a social democratic party. We're in politics with the poor, the unemployed, the retired. We're environmentalists, we're primarily saying not a fish from our seas should die, not a flower, not a bug, not even a tree. So I'm telling you, we're from production, too. This is not a conglomerate, you are the Minister of the Republic of Turkey, you will answer all our friends' questions one by one. In this law, we object if there are no benefits to society, benefits to retirement, benefits to the poor. We're against the way the law is coming. Eight of your fellow lawmakers bring it to the Commission, the ministers have no signatures. What I'm thinking is that the Prime Minister of the period has broken this law, and since he has disobeyed it, you've proposed it with the signatures of the MP. That's all I can think of. What was the rush?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0120par0138	Yeah, doesn't a congressman bid the law? He does.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0118par0139	Let's discuss it on the commission. If it's a law that helps the nation's budget, we'll always support it. Dear lawmakers, as I end my speech, I would like to ask that there should be no prejudice. Turkey needs unity and unity today. This unit, in unity, comes the law of electricity, which is not a political field... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...even here the opposition parties are accused. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0121par0145	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0122par0146	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0121par0147	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0122par0148	If you'll allow me to make a correction, I'd like to say a few words.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0121par0149	I'm listening, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0122par0150	As our congressman has just expressed himself, eight of our fellow lawmakers have signed off on the proposals of the law. In fact, here are the signatures of our other congressman friends who either entered or didn't enter the commission report. However, there is also the Constitution of Turkey's Grand National Assembly members who have the right to propose law in Article 74 of our Civil Code. If the MP had studied the commission report, in 18/4/2016, at the time Ahmet Davutoglu was Prime Minister, according to the 77th Amendment of the Civil Charter -- in the 24th term, he would have found that a draft law that had arrived in the 25th term, according to the 77th Article of the Civil Charter of Turkey, had been imposed on the agenda of the Grand Assembly of Turkey, which was 18 articles in 2014, because we added the two articles into a bag of law. So the previous governments and the 63rd government and the 64th government are behind this. I offer it with respect.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0123par0154	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş, it's been filed.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0124par0155	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0123par0156	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0124par0157	Sir, I'm going to make an assessment of his progress to the reports. On such an important issue, our friend and Republican People's Party opposes the ruling party's proposal, not in the form of a bill.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0125par0159	Mr. Levent, I said it, I said it.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0124par0160	When it came in the form of a bill, as we all know -- Mr. Elitaş is in a position to know better than anyone -- that it was necessary to get opinions from all of the AKP, to get information from all ministries, relevant ministries, organizations, and to get their legal and operational support, but the ruling party, Turkey, in such a law concerning 79 million, did not have the courage to bring it up as a bill; that's what our friend wanted to talk about.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0125par0161	There are parts of the bill that you object to, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0124par0162	I mean, don't let the government get behind the offer of the law; if it does, if it has the guts to bring it, let it be a bill.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0125par0163	Mr. Sky, your objections are all in the bill.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0126par0164	Thank you, Mr. Sky, and your words have been filed. Now, we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure on chapter one for 15 minutes. The first seven and a half minutes of fifteen minutes of time will be used by the government, Mr. Secretary, in response to questions, the second seven and a half minutes. Now, I'm going to start the question process. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0127par0168	I'm asking the Minister. 1) How much is an unrefundable fugitive on the scale of distribution companies and districts? 2) According to lawsuits filed due to the irregularity of the missing fugitive cost and decisions issued by the consumer panel of judges, is there a sum total of what should be paid so far? 3) According to ministry data, what is our country ranked among the OECD and European countries in terms of the price of active energy according to the purchasing power parity? 4) What number is our country ranked between OECD and European countries for distribution costs? 5) What number is our country ranked between OECD and European countries in terms of retail service costs? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0128par0175	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0129par0176	According to media reports, the regulation amendment of the Energy Market Organization will end invoice period on the first 20 days or 50 days of the month, which will be read and billed between 25 or 35 days. I wonder if there's any connection to the bill we have here. What will these coincidences or these provisions serve primarily? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0128par0178	Mr. Demirtaş...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0130par0179	Mr. Minister, despite the presence of 14,500 norm staff members of your Ministry's Turkish Tashkomu Foundation, there are 8,500 workers left in the institution as of today. So there are 5,500 production workers short in Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation. The TTK General Directorate has asked your Ministry for a staff to compensate for the production workers' deficit starting in 2012. Mr. Secretary, why don't you take care of this employee purchase, which is extremely important to Zonguldak? Will you take 5,500 workers to TTK? We've asked you over and over in writing, why don't you answer that question? In recent days, Zonguldak has been spoken in public, where TTK will be privatised. Are you going to privatize TTK, Mr. Secretary? In a January of which TTK had given redevans, 245 workers were laid off and starved to death because they could not obtain their legal rights. The action is over, but the workers' problems have not yet been resolved. Will you take 245 workers?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0131par0182	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0132par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the law must be passed in accordance with the interests and interests of the public, that is the goal. Is this current law, in the future, in the offer we have, in electricity, in the interests of corporations, or in the interests of the public? The second question is: your institution has 3 quotas per thousand for disabled people. Are there enough staff working on the disabled staff? Are there any openings? The third question is, isn't the distribution companies going to stop following when they're supposed to go after the thieves who stole their electricity? Another question: Won't electricity companies, these companies, avoid investing in the power lines to prevent losses? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0133par0189	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0134par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, did you know that Mersin Akkuyu Nuclear Plant was built on the Ecemis fault line? Second question: Do you know that children living around nuclear plants in Germany have 2.2 times higher blood cancer, according to a study published in a very serious magazine in Germany? Besides, there's no leak here, researchers, we're talking about a fully functioning nuclear power plant. My third question: Do you know, as in Fukushima, as in Chernobyl -- God forbid -- if there is an explosion in Akkuyu, do you know in what dimension this will harm our country and humanity, and the cancers that will occur will be transferred from generation to generation?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0135par0194	Mr. Yilmaz Tezcan...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0136par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Mersin has recently, especially in the last ten to fifteen years, a city that has taken a significant migration from the east, and it's growing economically incredibly. We also know that the need for energy in that sense is extreme. At this point, we care about the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant. As a professor of radiation oncology, I'd like to stress the real necessity of Akkuyu Nuclear Plant. You said it would cost about 20 billion dollars, that around 10,000 of our employees would be employed there. At this point, of course, with double protection, there won't be too many radiation leaks around it, and I'd also like to say that we're going to be following it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0137par0198	Mr. Behcet Yıldırım...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0138par0199	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister: Last month there was a private plane at Adıyaman Airport, and I asked him, and he was told it belonged to Genghis Holdings. I asked him why he came, and I didn't get any answers. Did he come for TOKI, came for the underground mines, or did Adıyaman come to Adıyaman to build a container city for refugees? I'd like to hear it from the Minister himself.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0137par0201	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0139par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how much is the TRT share of electricity bills collected every year from 2002 to today? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0140par0205	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0141par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, is it true that 49% of the shares related to Akkuyu Nuclear Plant will be sold to Genghis Construction by the Russians? If that's true, did you figure out what it would cost? Two: If the people of Mersin hadn't opposed the construction of a nuclear plant in Mersin for 35 years and the nuclear plant was working now, what would be the role of this atomic bomb in the bosom of Mersin because of the tension with Russia? Because you agreed that only the Russians had the power to run this nuclear plant, and we know that there's no way that we can get in there. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0142par0210	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0143par0211	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's no VAT in raw gold, but the electricity gets 18 percent VAT. In fact, electricity is a sought-after right to live. Can't you give that up? If this is abandoned, will our country sink or will it not be able to afford it? In this regard, the taxes of luxury materials, such as a diamond should be increased, while their taxes are dropping, while the electricity in which the citizen needs the necessary electricity increases by 18 percent. Is that consistent with the sense of justice? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0144par0214	Mr. Ilican...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0145par0215	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, would like to thank the Minister for his support for the creation of geothermal energy and thermal power plants for this Erzurum and its region. Here, the assessment of coal reserves in our region, the implementation of geothermal energy, and in some of our counties, the demand for natural gas here is negative in feasibility. What would he think about these things -- very important in terms of the development of this region? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0146par0218	Thank you, Mr. Ilican. The questions are over. I will now promise the government answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0147par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, there's a lot of questions; if I can't answer them all in this time, let's go back in writing. It has nothing to do with this proposal for the EPDK return to bills between twenty and thirty-five days, which is all about consumers paying their electricity bill regularly within their period. Of course, the difference between twenty-five days and twenty-five days is a natural process. There's no arrangement in this package. There's a question about TTK. ▪ TTK does not use 5,500. Some information has come in. Of course, our Ministry has taken important steps from yesterday to today, from today to tomorrow, regarding the mining sector. We're doing a very serious study in the new era, especially at TTK. What is this study? In our TTK-related mines and institutions, we can also afford reasonable operating costs, not only for employment, but also for those mines and institutions, a framework that will not be a burden to the state and the public. In this framework, there will be a process for our institutions not to damage, profit and increase employment, and in relation to this year, hopefully, we will go to a new process, which will increase. Now, about this 245 miners we've been talking about. This was an act of protest by employees of the private sector who were unable to pay their wages because they were appointed as trustees and courts on account of the financial difficulties of the company running and running it. And by supporting that, we've done the necessary work for these employees to get their rights in this firm's private, private sector company, and the people who work in this mine have both taken their wages that they can't get, and we're also doing our work in the mining sector, in the future, so that they don't become public or private or victims, hopefully, at the point of creating a new job and employment. The question was, "To whom is this bill in favor? " Public or private companies? This, of course, is a comprehensive package. I'd like to respond in private, assuming there's some kind of missing fugitive in here. The most important issue here, as I said, is that we've been in power since 2002 -- and if we're looking for documents here -- here's the document, here's the 1999 TETAS document, in 1998, in 2000 -- all of these calculations, in all of these calculations, and in the time of our former governments, all of these missing fugitive costs are in all of these calculated costs. So, in 2001, at the computation point, the total number of consumption is subtracted from inside, and this is the thin spot. So, in fact, as I said the day before, there was always a missing fugitive price, and it was taken from the total consumer. It's here for our people to know again, so, here, we can explain it as a lot of paperwork and information. So, what did we do, what are we going to do with these arrangements? If you say, "Will Hakeza continue the investments?" I want to combine them to answer the question. Certainly and certainly, with our performance so far, with the missing and the fugitive, the technical and non-existent loss, we've narrowed down these costs from 20 percent, which are not regionally linked to the number, not enough at the income level, not enough to be seen in the system in the stolen or illegal framework. With these regulations, in the new era, at the point of my own Ministry, we take two important steps: one, regional research distribution zones. Two, we're talking about a market that's been privatized, we're talking about 21 distribution zones, which have been invested in these areas, and we've narrowed down particularly the missing part of this number to 7 to 8.5 percent of OECD averages. With the new investments we're going to invest in, which we're going to lower by 2019, 2020, with 18 quadrillion new technical infrastructure investments, hopefully, much lower. Furthermore, without agricultural irrigation on the matter of the fugitive, we have visited Urbana, together with our three ministers in the past month -- and we will continue closely with the ministry's audit team, which is actually part of the electricity problem in the Southeast Region -- which is a significant part of the actual level of electricity -- because of the loss of agricultural irrigation and the regulation of electrical infrastructure, which is illegal, around all Turkey, and also the reduction of the number of fugitives in all 21 regions. Here's the bottom line: there are numerous international reports, information, documents. We're talking about a lot of reports all over the world -- England, America. Here, in a report on the United States of America the other day, the number mentioned for the annual number of illegal electricity used in the United States is $6 billion, which means the use of electricity as a fugitive is $6 billion, and this is the bill in the entire system. There are billions of pounds mentioned in England. In many countries of Europe, that number is also available. Some in the country a little bit more, some a little less, but this number goes on completely and completely throughout the system. Let's get to the nuclear point. There was a question, because there was a power outage, the cooling system broke down because of the problem with the electrical system, and for him, it was a nuclear accident at Fukushima. There was a question. Well, there's a technicality here. Certainly not because of that. You know, the accident in Fukushima was caused by a non-technical natural disaster because the system could not be activated by the entire electrical system, as the huge, massive waves went over 100 metres of cooling towers and entered into this entire plant. There's always a natural disaster. As I said at the meeting two days ago, as I said in the program, there are 442 nuclear plants in the world, as I said in many environments. So, we're talking about radiation, we're talking about people being affected based on all this radiation. Medical centers, health organizations around the world do a lot of work on them, but we are scientifically monitoring very serious publications about the individual and environmental impacts of these nuclear plants in many countries. Oh, there's a lot of ratios in this frame when we look at it officially. The last time I mentioned, the amount of radiation that a person who consumes one pack a day receives a year is about, like, 11 times the amount of radiation that a human being is affected by when you do a CT scan, tens of times as many times as you do an MRI. Therefore, we are obliged to follow the latest techniques, legislation, technology, in terms of the diversity of energy in the radiation and at the natural disaster point, the way energy is used in similar examples around the world, the way it's used in developed countries. That's why we're talking about the first nuclear power plant, the most recently developed relationship with Russia in the world we call three plus generations. Second: We conduct all of this infrastructure, all of this talks with our independent authority, TAEK, in terms of defence, in terms of security, as we call it, three plus generations, against being hit by a plane at a security point, as well as the impact of a seismic earthquake, based on an earthquake, based on 9.5-10. Other than that, there was another question: the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, Genghis Construction, or the plane that landed there...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0148par0235	He's following you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0147par0236	I honestly can't tell you when, where he went, who he got on the plane with, personally. Is there such a thing as the Akkuyu plant? There's nothing official about it. As a matter of fact, at this point of tension with Russia, there are a lot of things written, drawn, about the developments from November 24th to today, and there are a lot of things said about it -- you know, about natural gas, about investments. But, according to state policy, we continue to conduct our conversation and dialogue within the official procedure and framework, not just according to everything that's been said, as a matter of state seriousness. Therefore, we are conducting this process with more security measures than any of the world's security procedures, including human health and regional security, in particular, about nuclear power plants in particular or in Sinop. May our citizens be blessed. You, our representatives, must certainly walk in this frame of concern with the right concerns of you, and so will our representatives of Mersin, who walk in this way. Other than that, Mahmut Tanal Bey asked at the VAT point. This, of course, is a matter of Finance, but the VAT reductions based on the budget of our institutions are beyond our ministry, the main budget of our entire Council of Ministers and our government; of course, at the point where our budgets are overextended, our revenues, our economy is growing, our integration is based on a lot of independent, private sectors, the growth of revenues. Of course, lowering our taxes in many areas is at the beginning of our goals. You have to look at it in this frame. Erzurum, we're past the coal issue. Not only is it based on Erzurum, the issue of coal, as we speak, since the day I came to the Ministry, local energy has been at the point of local resources in the policies that our government and our government have implemented so far.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0149par0242	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0147par0244	Okay, I'll put you through, one last sentence, I'll put you through. Therefore, since it will be one of the main policies of our power and government, we will not only focus on Erzurum, but on this period more to use our natural coal reserves and resources at maximum in many parts of Turkey. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0150par0247	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question-answer process is complete. Thus, the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on Article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the approval and the approval of the Ministry, which is under the Act on Electric Market Number 312, under which the Act on Change in Some Laws shall be adopted, and shall be replaced as "designation" of the "work offices" in Article 2804, under Article 1 and Article 2804, under Article 11/9/1981, and under the Law on the Participation of Public Institutions No. 2522, under the Law abroad. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ancient Durmaz Tahsin Tarhan Kemal Zeybek Ömer Fethi Gürer Ahmet Akin Didem Engin Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Erkan Aydın Çetin Arık Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to Article 1 of Article 1 of the Law Proposal for Amendments in some Laws under Power Market Act 312, the extracurricular activities of the Executive Study and Search Directorate are organised by the regulations imposed by the Council of Ministers, the quality of staff to be employed abroad through control and control of these activities, the term of their duties, expenses to be paid, and the basis of their financial control." We offer and offer to change it into form. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Ruhi Ersoy Bakı Lightning Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mehmet Erkan Haberal Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the first article of Law Proposal 312 be removed from the proposal text. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Alican Önlü Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0151par0282	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0150par0283	Erol Dora, Mardin MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0152par0286	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 1st Article of the Law Proposal 312. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, this bill, which almost shuts down building control for nuclear plants and guarantees and incentives for coal power plants, thus providing restrictions on renewable energy sources, paves the way for the sale of public power plants, without being detected. Many of the regulations involved in this law proposal, a continuation of the policies of AKP governments that justify nature's plunder in order to create a runt, are incompatible with the law, with the benefit of the public. Dear lawmakers, while discussing a law proposal on the electricity market, I would like to mention in particular the problems of electricity in my electoral district, Mardin and the surrounding provinces. Power shortages occur in almost every irrigation season across Mardin Plain, which is the main source of income agriculture. Therefore, not only do farmers and electricity institutions face each other, the problem is becoming more and more chronic. Despite our recent discussions with the Ministry of Energy in light of our citizens' complaints, despite numerous attempts by NGOs on the other side to resolve the problem, although the public has repeatedly demonstrated democratic reactions, there has been no positive development at the solution point. Dear lawmakers, electricity, which should be a public service and a basic human right, has been made a market product against the public by becoming a profitable commodity in the free market. Thus, the DEDAS, which has taken power to distribute electricity in the region, approach the issue with merchant logic, while the loss of agriculture, which is public wealth, is at stake. The price of electricity required from the farmer is not the numbers that farmers can pay. Because the drilling wells, which are between 400 and 600 metres deep in the plains of Mardin, which our farmers have opened with their own means, consume too much electricity. In places like this, for example, in some regions of the provinces, like Iconia, Karaman, Aksaray, Niğde, the state digs drilling wells and collects water prices from farmers at a reasonable price. It makes sense that the same practice is not being implemented in Southeast Anatolia. Precious lawmakers, agriculture and many other investments have shown that in the past years, the region has been discriminated against as usual. Mardin, Şırnak, Siirt, Batman and Urbana, which are part of the GAP today, are also the highest unemployment rates in Turkey. The GAP, which was founded in 1975, still hasn't delivered water to the agricultural fields that our farmer deserved, even after forty-one years. Due to the failure of the GAP, an important part of the population waters its land by drilling water from wells, turning it into a huge hole, bringing our farmers who are losing production every year because they receive unhealthy and cut-off energy at watering times. The efforts to address these tribulations were inadequate, and the farmer's victimism was unresolved. However, it is neither legal nor conscientious to threaten our farmers, who run the region's most important livelihoods through torture, that electricity will be cut if they do not pay the price of electricity they cannot afford. It is unacceptable for DEDAS to intentionally threaten a power outage these days, when the watering period is critical. This problem must be resolved within the framework of good faith and justice. The Ministry of Energy must give up policies that confront DEDAŞ and the local farmer. The state is responsible for the victimization of the region due to agricultural irrigation because it is the state that started and did not finish the GAP project. Recently, the Mardin Association of Agriculture Associations, a 63-component NGO, has also made new attempts to resolve the problem and has warned that similar reactions to protests may occur in August 2014. In this framework, I call upon the government once again to address the power problems of our farmers, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0153par0295	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0154par0299	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit02spe0153par0300	There's a request for a roll call, and I'll make it happen. Mr. Gök, Mr. Bayır, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Bakır, Mr. Bektaşoğlu, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Engin, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Horseman, Mr. Torun, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Man, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Green, Mr. Emir, Mr. Togurul. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0153par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 98th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The meeting on the 1st article of Law Proposal 312 was not enough in the roll call before the vote of Mardin MP Erol Dora and his friends' motion. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to Article 1 of Article 1 of the Law Proposal for Amendments in some Laws under Power Market Act 312, the extracurricular activities of the Executive Study and Search Directorate are organised by the regulations imposed by the Council of Ministers, the quality of staff to be employed abroad through control and control of these activities, the term of their duties, expenses to be paid, and the basis of their financial control." We offer and offer to change it into form. Erkan Haberal (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0155par0021	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0153par0022	Erkan Haberal wants to talk about the motion, Ankara MP. Here you are, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0156par0025	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Secretary, I salute you and your esteemed bureaucrats. I'd like to start by saying hello to all of you from Zonguldak, the fugitive's capital, as we speak about the missing fugitive in energy and electricity. Zonguldak is the capital of lost lives, the capital of those who had to leave Zonguldak. I call them lost lives because there are over 5,000 mining martyrs, each with respect, gratitude, and gratitude. I call it the fugitive, because the population of 670,000 people in 2002 is Zonguldak, which is 597 thousand today despite the rate of population growth in our country; the number of workers in Turkey's Taşkoömöm in 2002 was 15,774, while the number of workers that worked in 2015 dropped to 8,952, and the amount of coal produced in 2015 dropped below 1 million tons, Zonguldak. Our country consumes 30 million tons of stone coal a year, and we can't produce 10 percent of it. About 4 billion dollars are going abroad each year, and there are still 1,300 million tonnes of coal reserves in the Zonguldak coal basin, but the number of workers is persistently dropping, and in 2002, 2007, 2011, 2015, in the elections, we will receive workers. The number of workers in Zonguldak (Zonguldak) continues to be reduced, even though your minister came to Zolguldak, and promised to receive 3,000 people, Mr. Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar. I said Zonguldak is missing and escaped, and I said it's because of the CATES power plants. The reason for the construction of power plants in Zonguldak is because of coal, but coal is being brought from abroad. Once upon a time, Zonguldak, who paid a price for coal production, has now become the center of imported coal in the world.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0157par0031	Mr. Haberal, one moment, sir. Members of parliament, there's a hum in the General Assembly, the speaker's words can't be heard healthy enough. Please, sir... Here you are, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0158par0034	Thank you, sir. Three times the security limit for the World Health Organization's air pollution is pollution in Zonguldak. However, new power plants are being built, yet Zonguldak is not producing coal, or hiring. Although the Norm staff was 14 thousand, Mr. Secretary, even though the ministers before you have come and promised, your deputies will be hired to hire workers. Although Zonguldak has promised, new plants are being forced to build, production is not being increased. Zonguldaks know they're breathing poison; they at least want to breathe their own poisons in this pollution, they don't want to breathe coal from Ukraine. Mr. Secretary, I asked you, and you answered. There are three thermal plants in Zonguldak. What do you think you're going to do -- the new thermal plants -- the EED reports are being discussed -- are you going to hire new staff to Zonguldak, new workers to TTK? And you answered me, that there are now seven plants in Zonguldak, that there are electricity production facilities, that there are 3,200 workers needed in Zonguldak, and that the Treasury Undersecretary does not allow it because it's damaged. Okay, that's great, but 30 million tons of imports are imported abroad, and we're buying coal from Ukraine. Zonguldak, who produces coal, has become the country that has the most coal, Ukrainian coal. Our board capacity is 5 million tons, and there are 1,300 million tons of reserves in Zonguldak, but the number of employees is being persistently reduced, insisting on not getting new employees. Will TTK be exclusive, Mr. Secretary? If Turkey insists on building new plants to cover its energy deficit and prefers Zonguldak....the reason it prefers coal deposits is because there are the richest mines in the world. But despite all that, there's a question, Mr. Secretary, if it's still being imported coal from Ukraine and given new CED reports. In any country in the world...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0159par0039	Mr. Haberal, I'm giving you an additional minute to avoid the waste of time because I had to intervene in order to stop the humming in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0158par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. I said Zonguldak, the capital of the missing and fugitive. The main reason Zonguldak is the missing and fugitive's capital is that coal production is not being produced here, and the persistent desire to build coal-related thermal plants is being built here. There are no 13 plants within a 78km line in any country; in Zonguldak (now 7 ministers) they will rise to 13, according to the information they have given me, and on top of that, they will rise to 13. Right now, there are CED reports that work in that sense. I asked Mr. Minister of Environment and Urbanism, and he said, "No, there are four." I've asked the Minister, they've been gracious, they've responded, Mr. Secretary, he's said seven. There's no harmony between the ministries then, and there's no news between the ministries. Mr. Secretary, I know your special interest in Zonguldak, sir, so I'm telling you that the ministers who went to Zonguldak before you didn't tell your deputies the truth. I don't mean they tricked me, I can't speak. Your deputies made a statement there about your Ministry's commitments... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...Zonguldak stood up. Zonguldak got his hopes up, but Zonguldak was left alone. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0160par0048	Thank you, Mr. Haberal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the approval and the approval of the Ministry, which is bound by the Act on Electric Market Number 312, under which there is a amendment to some Laws, under Article 1 (U.S.) and Article 2804 (U.S. 1) and the amendment to Article 11/9/1981, under which the Public Institutions No. 2522 are subject to the Law on Foreign Relations. İrfan Copper (Isparta) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0161par0057	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0160par0058	Irfan Bakır, Isparta MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Copper.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0162par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs and my dear citizens who are watching us on their screens. I'd like to thank all of my friends who have contributed to the bill proposal we're interviewing, both through commission work and personal work. Its history is the Etibank, Sumerbank, and MTA Institute, three of the institutions associated with its republic. Two of these institutions, unfortunately, have lost their name and have been removed from the institution, its purpose, and its goal. The MTA strives to do its job for the purpose of its establishment. In 1935, the MTA was established with Law No. 2804, and its mandate was to investigate the conditions for the more useful operating of mines and quarry sites in the country, and to do research, scientific, geological and technological studies, map, plan and cutouts; the project, science reports and profitability calculations in the mining sector, and to raise qualified personnel in the mining sector. As you can see, MTA is not a business organization. Geological institutions, such as MTA, have been tasked with creating resources and protecting these resources. Geological institutions must first observe the day of science and contribute personally to the development of science. For this reason, institutions such as MTA must be scientific institutions, close to institutions such as universities and state research institutions that make science. Centrality is based on the organisation of all geology research institutions around the world. In this, research institutions have always had limited economic, scientific and technical possibilities in terms of labs, libraries, and experts, and at the same time, the economic use of available opportunities in central organisation has played a key role. In the MTA General Directorate's work system, studies on the land provide the first data and research materials, and then these materials are analyzed in the labs. It is especially important that the MTA (MTA) should be able to produce and serve information in order to find minerals instead of mining, such as the company, and that is the function of geology institutions all over the world. In this context, the MTA (MTA) must be supported and strengthened in order to fulfill its function properly. However, it is not possible for MTA (MTA) to start a business abroad, to form partnerships in trade, or to open diplomatic missions. This is contrary to its function, its interim work, and its development. In order to pave the way for MTA (MTA) projects and work that MTA will do abroad, and to provide additional materials to MTA Law 4309, it has been established that MTA will be able to plan, conduct, co-operate, or provide consulting services to any organization abroad. I wonder what projects or work MTA has planned abroad that existing legislation and legislation have prevented this work? Is there any obstacle at this time to MTA (MTA) doing any projects abroad? When the MTA conducted a long-term mining project abroad in the past, did the existing laws pose any obstacle? The current substance is highly problematic in terms of MTA and its future. No geology institution in the world has a representative abroad; there is no single example of this, because the work of geology institutions is central. These institutions do their actual work at the center, and they only go to the site to collect observation and data. They work at the center before they go out into the field, make their observations on the field, then go back to the center, review the data they provided from the field in the labs, and report their work, end their projects. MTA is a research agency. Instead of providing the opportunity to operate abroad, the law offer will allow MTA (MTA) to become a commercial government. This will remove the MTA (MTA) from its main function and make it cumbersome. In no country in the world, these institutions do not work directly for commercial purposes. With their research and their knowledge, they provide infrastructure for mining and major engineering projects. The geology institutions of developed countries, including Turkey, operate all over the world, but none of them have a representative in any country. Because their work system, their science, doesn't require it. Such organisation undermines the working principle of institutions. As a result, it is contrary to the purpose and purpose of MTA (MTA) to engage in commercial tenders abroad, to open representations, and to start a company. I think the purpose of this substance is far from the reason we're being given, and it's going to cause serious problems for the MTA. It says that we are ready to support each step to strengthen and support the MTA (MTA).
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0163par0074	Thank you, Mr. Copper. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. There are three proposals on the 2nd article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws, we propose and propose the removal of and exculpatory provisions of the Law on the provision of Article 312 and on the establishment and activities of the nuclear power plant projects, dated 26/1/1939 and on the immunization of the Laws of Olives and Savages of 3573. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu İsmail Faruk Aksu Baki Erkan Haberal Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Law Proposal 312 be removed from the proposal text. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Mahmoud Celadet Güdalı Alican Önlü The signatures of the other motion are: Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Ancient Durmaz Kemal Zeybek Didem Engin Özkan Yım Cetin Arık Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Ömer Fethi Gürer Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0164par0108	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0163par0109	Mr. Mahmut Toğrul, MP of Gaziantep, has asked for a statement regarding the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0165par0112	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. President, dear MPs, I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, government spokesman, AKP speakers always say that waste is forbidden when they take this stand. As you know, during fully relevant talks on this proposal, a debate was held by the members of the group on the violation of the Constitution and Mr. President took a ten-minute recess, the members of the group were called to a meeting, and a meeting was later decided to be held by a member of each group. Mr. Secretary was supposed to attend the meeting, but he didn't. There we had a serious discussion with the Commissioner, sincerely speaking, because this proposal was against the law. But after the discussion, we're going to pass on the ideas that have been formed here to the Minister. As of this moment, the President of the Commission has still explained to us why that meeting was held, not a word. Dear friends, with this clause, there is actually a parallel Council of Ministers, creating a parallel Prime Ministership because a ministry is given so much authority that it is impossible to understand. See, the rights to the Ministry are: the Ministry will make this place a petrochemistry, refinery, or nuclear plant in private security areas or in private areas or in coastal areas. These properties can be seized in one place; they can be seized, both military property and private property. Dear friends, is there any other ministry capable of interfering with such authority in one piece of property? Yes, Mr. Secretary is indeed authorized as a parallel Council of Ministers. Dear friends, with this offer, exceptions are brought to the Law of the Coastal Law, such as the immunization of existing olive groves or wildlings. With these exceptions -- as I just described -- the Ministry is taking over. Today, we know that in Kurdish geography, there are dozens of private security areas in every province. These private security zones can be seized at any moment, and more than that, the Ministry has never mentioned how many refinery, how many petrochemistry plants, how many nuclear plants they've designed. He's got a chance to raise that number as much as he wants. Who's going to build these fields, dear friends? This will be the first application by Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency to oversee construction and zoning. Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency is being placed here as a building and zoning control agency. But instead of getting nuclear facilities out of construction control, out of the building code, nuclear is such a dangerous thing that you have to take extra security measures, extra preparation, extra work. So, what's going on? The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is disqualified, only reduced to a position of opinion. So really, here, as a government, it is necessary to congratulate the Minister because it would not be misleading to tell the Minister, alone, like a government, a Council of Ministers, or even the Prime Minister. Dear friends, it is strictly against the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey to pass this clause like this. See, the 56th article clearly states that everyone has the right to live in a healthy environment. We all know the impact of nuclear on the environment. So we propose that this text be withdrawn from the proposal, that this text be removed from the proposal. I invite all groups, especially those powers, to reconsider, to pay tribute.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0166par0124	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. He wants to talk about the other proposal of the same nature, Aytuğ Atcı, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0167par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the Power Market Act 312 and to the motion we made regarding Article 2 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. I salute lawmakers who prioritize human health, who don't lie to the public, who don't attract country's resources to any individual and country. Dear friends, in the 2nd article, in summary, I do not listen to the sea shore, to the coastline, to the olive and olive groves, which are included in many scriptures, including our holy book, the Quran. As long as the money comes, I will destroy them all. And we're telling you, don't do this, get this stuff out of the text. Why do we say don't? Now, in a few words from this stage, I'm going to issue a clause, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0168par0132	Mr. Secretary is busy.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0169par0133	You go ahead, Mr. Pitcher.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0167par0134	Sir, if the Minister is very busy, let's talk some other time.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0170par0135	Address the General Assembly, sir. We're listening, we want to take advantage.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0171par0136	The General Assembly is here.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0172par0137	Let's not keep the Minister busy, Mr. Lawmakers. Go ahead, Mr. Pitcher.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0173par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we're going to tell you today why our country doesn't need nuclear energy. If you don't understand, we'll tell you again, if you insist you don't understand, we'll tell you again.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0174par0141	Yeah, face the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0173par0142	At the same time, we're going to try to tell you how we're going to meet the energy needs of our growing and developing country, including our suggestions, which hopefully there will be a common way, and our country will never be in trouble. Dear friends, Turkey doesn't need nuclear energy...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0174par0144	He needs 10 power plants, 10!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0173par0145	...because with the numbers I'm about to give you, you'll see how we've been able to meet our energy needs, according to all scenarios, with local and renewable energy sources. We don't need this nuclear energy. So, what's the matter, what's the harm, what's the harm? Yes, Mr. Secretary, as you wrote in your own thesis, there could be severe damage. You wrote a doctoral thesis at the time, and you said: "Renewable energy is good." And you commented on your thesis on how harmful nuclear waste is, but the irony of luck is that you're sitting in that chair today and you have to defend nuclear energy, but you're defending it from the heart, and I'm watching it where I sit. Mr. Secretary, as you pointed out in your thesis, in your doctoral thesis, as you pointed out in your scientific thesis, nuclear energy is not clean. After nuclear energy -- as you pointed out -- only 1 percent of uranium gets energy, and the rest is millions of years, and look, millions of years, it's gonna be a problem for our children. No country, including the United States, Japan, Europe, has found a solution to the problem of nuclear waste. We're trying to turn Mersin, that beautiful Mersin, into a nuclear waste dump, so come and give it up. Two: nuclear energy is bad for your health, Mr. Secretary. In a study in Germany -- you didn't answer my question, but I'll tell you -- the possibility of blood cancer in children living around the nuclear plant has increased by 2.2 times, even though there were no accidents. We have no right to spread blood cancer to our children, Mr. Secretary. At the same time, nuclear energy is harmful to the environment. Scientific data tells us that the temperature of sea water used to cool the nuclear plant will increase by at least two to six degrees on average. Imagine for a moment that your body temperature has risen by two degrees, and you can't sit there and have a big problem. Therefore, we know that living creatures will also die at sea. I'll continue with the damage and suggestions in my next talks.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0175par0151	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0176par0153	Mr. President, I'd like a very short word for 69.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0175par0154	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0176par0157	Congressman, my doctorate has mentioned some things in my thesis about how I discredited the nuclear power plant, that's not true, it's too short, so I don't have to extend it, there's no such thing. My thesis is about renewable energy. The lower fracture in edible energy has been studied in detail about hydroelectricity, solar and wind. In the world of that day, because the sun and wind are not too competitive, the cost point was that the hydropower plants, HESTHERs, were more physical than solar and wind. But in the future, when the costs are lower, the sun and the wind will also be feasible. It has nothing to do with nuclear energy, I just wanted to underline it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0175par0159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0177par0160	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0175par0161	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0177par0162	Mr. President, for the record, I quote from the 19th page of Mr. Minister's thesis in the past, there's a lot more, but maybe he's forgotten what he's written, and I quote his 19th page, "This type of energy -- of nuclear energy species -- is the most important disadvantage -- is that all fuels in the reactor system have to be kept safe for years. It's a long-term security issue of these wastes, which are highly radioactive during which only 1 percent of the fuel put in the reactor is being burned and the rest is incinerated. It's its own thesis.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0175par0163	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Secretary, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0178par0166	There's no way we can argue that we're opposed to nuclear, that's one, that's how fuels in 442 nuclear plants are already stored and how this energy is being used. Secondly, the waste of the nuclear power plant, in spite of countries hiding in ancient methods all over the world... which I said at the budget meeting last week, I said in the Budget Commission: If we are so opposed to nuclear waste, I mentioned that if we are so opposed to it, I would put a will to shut down every single individual at every energy convention in the world and, most importantly, at the end of March, at the nuclear summit in Washington. Today, Turkey, Armenia, Bulgaria, Iran, uses the most secure technology in the world, compared to other countries in the region, compared to the technology of the 70s, the 80s, as a country that will use the latest technology and storage systems in the world. So, of course, there are risks, there are risks everywhere; there are risks in the coal plant, there are risks in the HES, there are environmental risks, there are security risks. Is there anything that's not a risk? You can't get in the car. If you don't drive safely when you get in the car, you're dead. It doesn't mean we're against nuclear energy here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0179par0170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0180par0171	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0179par0175	I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0181par0176	There was a motion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0182par0177	No, sir, there's a motion, there's another motion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0183par0178	There was a motion that said that there was a...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0181par0179	There was a motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0184par0180	Our motion is...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0185par0181	Correction, two motions...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0186par0182	Sir, the motions are the same.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0187par0183	Just because it was the same thing...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0188par0184	We voted the same way, yes.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0189par0185	You're not going to vote on matter. You're going to vote on two motions in the same context.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0190par0186	There was a third motion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0191par0187	We had a motion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0192par0188	Two motions of the same nature.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0193par0189	Sir, the nationalist movement party...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0194par0190	Yes, I put two motions to a vote; there was a third motion, I was going to have it read, there was a mistake. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0195par0192	Mr. President, I don't want to take too long, and I don't want to go into the polemics, but I'm here to make everyone...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0196par0193	You get on the stand, you talk. That's not the way to do it!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0194par0194	Congressmans, please, sir... Very briefly, Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0197par0196	...we need to talk about scientific data so that everyone here can vote according to their conscience. On page 20 of his thesis, the most feared element of this type of energy is the possibility of irreparably polluting the environment as a result of a possible accident. Two: It goes on and on, it says that society is against this nuclear energy because there are problems with its production and there is a possibility that it will not be used peacefully.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0194par0198	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I think this is the subject of a longer discussion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0197par0200	Sir, there's also...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0198par0201	Congratulations, Mr. Secretary thinks your thesis is great.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0197par0202	You promised the Minister... and the weatherman...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0199par0203	There's no way to settle this on such short notice.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0197par0204	Mr. President, we have to say something about the Metsamor. The meteor had the highest technology on the day it was founded, just as it would have been in Akkuyu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0199par0205	Mr. Horseman, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0197par0206	Thirty years from now, he'll definitely be as dangerous as the Metsamor.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0199par0208	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0200par0209	Mr. President, there is no such procedure, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0197par0210	If you get in a car accident, you're dead...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0200par0211	There's no such thing, sir, please!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0201par0212	Osman, sit down!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0197par0213	But if you build a nuclear plant, all people will die and it will be passed down from generation to generation.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0202par0214	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws, we propose and propose the removal of and exculpatory provisions of the Law on the provision of Article 312 and on the establishment and activities of the nuclear power plant projects, dated 26/1/1939 and on the immunization of the Laws of Olives and Savages of 3573. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMINATION PRESIDENT ZIYAAlTUNYALDİ (Connia), Mr. President, we are not participating. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0203par0221	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0202par0222	Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu, Hatay MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0204par0225	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 2 of the Law Against the Power Market Act 312. Honourable MPs, under Article 2 of the proposal, are added to Article 27 of the Law on Military Forbidden Areas and Security Areas 2565. This clause stipulates that proceedings should be initiated without permission from the General Staff, without permission from the General Staff, without permission to establish legal facilities such as military restricted zones, country security, Turkish Armed Forces property and private security zones, such as refinery, petrochemistry facilities and nuclear power plants. In addition, the provisions of the Coastal Law are exceptional in order to fulfil our international obligations in time and in order to meet them in accordance with the provisions of the inter-nation agreements with the refinery, petrochemistry facilities and plugins of the public and private sector abroad. Precious lawmakers will open the way for safe entry into coastal and coastal areas, military areas, restricted areas, olive areas -- exceptions to different laws -- to establish nuclear facilities, particularly Akkuyu. For this purpose, there are exceptions in the Law on the Coast Law and the Insemination of Olivery and the Wilds. In particular, a partial improvement has been made during the commission's work. Dear lawmakers, exceptions will not be imposed limiting provisions on land won by means of filling and drying land, shores, coast lanes, which will pave the way for new exceptions. The limits of the General Staff's favourable opinion of military needs will not be implemented while previously geographical position and location detection is not implemented, while construction projects related to this matter will now be under way without positive opinion and the command of the General Staff will be removed from its authority to stop permit and construction. The government defines the reason for the amendment to Article 2 of the proposed law as meeting our international obligations in time and in full. He thus openly declares that he will serve foreign capital, not the country, but the country. Coasts, coast strips, beach strips, and dry land, which have previously been acquired through the press, can be used for its own foundations, companies, directly related to military safety zones, or Turkish Armed Forces concerned directly with the security of the country. The amendments we have prepared as the National Movement Party on the matter's importance have not been approved by AKP lawmakers on the Commission. However, we say it is our duty to warn our country and our nation once again. Despite the Coastal Law, land will be harvested, natural environments destroyed, and facilities that will cause them will not be seen from a single institution. As with all of this law, the interests of the nation, the interests of the country, will be put in front of the public. While they are being done for the production of energy, unfortunately, Turkey's energy will be destroyed, he says, and I give all of you respect.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0205par0235	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There are three motions on the third article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the expression outside the production of energy to come after the statement taken in Article 3 of Article 3 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Ruhi Ersoy Desire Erdem Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the third article of Law Proposal No. 312 be removed from the proposal text. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Alican Önlü The signatures of the other motion are: The Moonbeater Kazım lion Tacettin Bayır İrfan Bakır Ancient Durmaz Ahmet Akin Tahsin Tarhan Kemal Zeybek Didem Engin Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Özkan Yım Çetin Arık Ömer Fethi Gürer Erkan Aydın Does the Commission agree with two proposals of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0206par0269	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0205par0270	Mahmoud Toğrul, MP of Gaziantep, has asked for the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0207par0273	Thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, dear workers of the General Assembly, I salute you all. Dear friends, I have just told you that this arrangement envisions the transfer of the provisions regarding building structures in nuclear power fields to Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for the implementation of the provisions related to the responsibilities of the Building Law and Development Act. So, my dear friends, I've just told you, Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency is either going to do or do construction control of structures in the nuclear plant area. Dear friends, as you know, no one has any prejudice about nuclear waste, but there are known facts about nuclear waste: nuclear waste is dangerous. The damage of nuclear waste is unpredictable, unpredictable. Therefore, no insurance company does insurance on a nuclear power plant, as in Chernobyl, or as in Fukushima, its disaster will not only be limited to that region, or its damage will not be foreseen without the explosion. Dear friends, this material, as I wanted the previous matter to come out, is actually a text that needs to be removed from the draft text, because it is accepted by the entire world, let alone by the Normal Building Law, where more special measures should be taken. In fact, bringing exceptions to the regular CED law, the Coastal Law, the olive groves, the non-enterable areas, means that this law is being used in a humbling manner. So, you know, CED is almost meaningless today because there are a lot of troubled CED reports in our country, there are a lot of CED reports that aren't implemented, even CED reports that were received after normal practice started. As a matter of fact, we're at a point where it's now being fabricated according to the CED structure, and the structures that are to be built are not being applied to fit the CED. Dear friends, we say that Turkey's renewable energy resources are absolutely sufficient because the nuclear threat is not just about today, but about future generations. When you have an accident today, you have the problem yourself, but the problems you're going to experience with nuclear are the problems our grandchildren will have, perhaps far beyond our generations. More importantly, a technology that can destroy nuclear waste today with normal procedure has not yet been produced, and the harmful effects of nuclear pollutants, unfortunately, have been passed down from generation to generation over the years -- thousands, millions of years. Dear friends, nuclear energy is not only in the industrial sector, but in other areas -- in the field of tourism and health -- and it will destroy this area. We have to give up: we need extra energy. We need to generate extra energy. Their thesis is never true. It's more important that we develop the right policy of using energy properly. Dear friends, as I said earlier today, nuclear waste in the scientific table is in the group of unobtainable risks that cannot be observed. So you're not just jeopardizing the state of the country right now, you're jeopardizing its future. To give up healthy energy, to get stuck in nuclear, is to really get stuck in the swamp when you're running away from the hail for this country. Never, ever, is a nuclear solution to energy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] When the road is near, it must be abandoned, and so does the world. The world's existing plants are expected to complete their lives now. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0208par0286	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. He wants to talk about the other proposal of the same nature, Aytuğ Atcı, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0209par0290	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a pledge on the third amendment of this bill that paves the way for the construction of nuclear power plants. And with this material, you bypass the law on building control and get the nuclear power plants out of it. Dear friends, I began to explain the damage to nuclear power plants in my previous speech. Now we all know the damage they do to health. We now know that our children will have cancer, at a rate of 2.2 times higher, and we now know that DNA fractures will be passed down from generation to generation, that cancer will continue for generations, and that it will increase the risk of birthing disabled children in women who may be pregnant, of giving birth to dead children. Dear friends, look, only CHP people don't live around Akkuyu, the people who vote for the AKP are alive, the people who vote for the PKK are alive, and believe me, Minister, if there is a nuclear leak, we can't smell it, we can't see it, we can't hear it, we can't taste it, we can't feel it, we can't feel anything, we can't see anything, and all the children are affected. When these children are affected, they will not be separated from Alevi or Sunni; they will all have cancer; they will not be separated from the Kurdish manager, Turkish manager, Arab, or Circek; they will not be separated from the AKP, whether his father voted for the CHP or voted for the CHP.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0210par0294	What's that got to do with it? Our people, all of them. Why are you splitting it up?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0209par0295	So, come, give up this love. Therefore, we will oppose it with all our might. As long as this law is spoken, as long as I have my strength and voice, I will continue to oppose it. You just said there's a Metsamor on the border with Armenia. Yes, there is, I wish it hadn't been done. It was done well at the time, and now, we're terrified it's going to explode. Now, what you're going to do to Akkuyu... Notice that you're trying to build an untested technology in the world, an untested technology in Akkuyu, and 20 years from now it's going to get old. Your age is available, may God give you life, and you will see those days, and then you will see when the Akkuyu will explode, just as today in Armenia's Metsamor, the people of Mersin will have the same concerns. Not just the people of Mersin. Minister, I've studied the meteorological distribution of clouds, such as, if there is a leak in April, it's heading towards Gaziantep, and if there is a leak in July, it's heading towards Ankara, and if there is a leak in winter, it's heading towards Cyprus with clouds, so not just Mersin, but all Turkey and its environment will be in danger. But you said: "There is also a risk in coal; are we not going to drive?" Your father-in-law said: "The tube is like gas," and the gas explodes, so will we not use tube gas?" The comics of that time were free to draw because he was then Prime Minister, and they did something called "tay gas," and we were a disgrace to the whole world. Look, the gas can explode, the car can collapse, yes, it's a risk, but only then and now people die, so there's no transfer of death from generation to generation. Yeah, we get lung cancer when we don't burn the lignite or the coal well, we die, that's true, but that's never passed down from generation to generation. So, come, learn from the past. Look, Mr. Secretary, it's not too far. When Fukushima happened, Japan decided to shut down all nuclear power plants. Then, when he realized he couldn't make it, he put one, then two back on line. We don't need this. I'll give you the numbers in a moment, in my next speech. Look, learn from Chernobyl -- there's no need to go too far -- we've lived in Chernobyl. During Chernobyl, the tea with radiation was more delicious. The minister died of cancer. Later, I go to the sea next to the nuclear plant. The AKP minister who says, "There isn't now." You're sitting there right now, nuclear energy is very good. You're saying, you won't be able to sit there tomorrow, but all the people of Mersin, all the people of Turkey, will continue to live here and keep their children alive. You have no right to destroy us like this, dear friends. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0211par0302	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Horseman, your age is available for 20 years from now. May God grant you a long life. You made a wish to the Minister. You see those days.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0209par0304	May God grant everyone a long life.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0211par0305	I mean, it's like I can't see those days for you. It means something like that. May Allah grant you a long life.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0209par0306	May God grant everyone a long life.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0211par0307	I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the expression outside the production of energy to come after the statement taken in Article 3 of Article 3 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312. Altruism (Istanbul) and its companions Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0212par0315	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0211par0316	Arzu Erdem, İstanbul MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0213par0319	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the motion on Article 3 of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws by Power Market Act 312. I salute the nation of St. Turk and the Grand Assembly. Honorable lawmakers cannot be carried out by Article 9/7/1982 and by Article 2690 added to the Law on Atomic Energy Institution of Turkey Law on the structures of nuclear power fields of 29/6/2001 and Article 3/5/1985 and provisions on the feasibility of Building Control 3/5/1985 and of Building Law 3194. However, the construction control of these structures is carried out according to the terms of the service contract between the control agency and the license of the nuclear plant by the structure management agencies authorized by the Turkish Atomic Energy Agency. Building control by these organisations does not partially or entirely eliminate the individual and perfect responsibility of the nuclear plant owner. The scope of the service contract between the building management agency and the owner of the nuclear power plant will be established within a year from the time the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism came into effect by the Turkish Atomic Energy Agency. Honourable lawmakers are also exceptions to the provisions of zoning legislation for construction in nuclear power plant areas. In the original version of the proposal, the application of the construction license and control of the proposal, referred to in its final form as the title of structure control, is excluded from Article 2690 added to the Atomic Energy Institution Act, building control in nuclear power fields, and provisions related to the fiscal responsibilities under the Emancipation Act. Although the proposal is indicated that the company authorized for building control and the nuclear licensed company will sign a service contract while holding construction in its nuclear space immune from such legislation, an exception zone is not clear. The structure control system, unfortunately, is not what is required of both building control agencies and other institutions. Because building control agencies are based on customer-boss work. In accordance with the criteria, building control companies do not make the necessary inspections due to the money they receive from contractors. Hopefully, the corporate firms that Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency has agreed to are not like similar firms, they are more institutional, more qualified employees, and they will carry out their duties within the framework of justice and rights. Dear lawmakers, the ruling party's duties are to correct energy policies, to use their energy resources in production, to monitor the right energy policies based on natural gas and oil imports and to increase energy efficiency. It is the duty of companies that produce electricity, transmit it and distribute it, to present the electricity that society needs to consumers without interruption or quality. However, unfortunately... Mr. President, can we stop humming, please?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0214par0325	Congressmans, please, sir... there's a hum, really, please...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0213par0326	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, however, energy efficiency has not been increased to the expected level in our country today. Electric energy distribution and use of electricity has not been created by consumer awareness, which has not been attempted to prevent loss and the development of the technology used for the prevention and development of illegals. By the way, I especially want to talk about recent complaints. Power outages are increasing day by day. The power outage index indicated that power outages increased by 21.78 per cent in April. Istanbul, which is my constituency, is one of the three cities that has been cut most, and these frequent cuts have victimised our nation. Electricity blackouts have just occurred in İstanbul this week in nine districts such as Ataşehir, Beykoz, Kadıköy, Kartal and Pendik. It is imperative that we find a solution to this issue. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we say that our beloved Turkish nation is with them in all its sacrifices, and I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0215par0332	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 4: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 312 Power Market Law shall be changed in accordance with the regulations of Article 4 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Bakı Simsek Ruhi Ersoy Deniz Depboy Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Nuri Okutan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change of the 4th amendment to the 312th amendment of the current Law Proposal (J). j) Review, detection, reporting, project approval and adoption operations with the public facilities of electricity production, transport, distribution and the establishment of and operating facilities İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Power Market Act 312, we propose and propose that Article 4 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws be replaced as follows by Article 3154, Article 2 of the Law on the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, which is added to Article 2 of the Law on Organizations and Jobs (1). "j) To assign specialized public institutions and institutions to conduct evaluation, detection, reporting, project approval and acceptance procedures for the establishment of electricity production, transport and consumption facilities in line with national interests and modern technology." Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr The Ancient Durmaz Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Didem Engin Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Erkan Aydın Özkan Yimım Çetin Arık Ömer Fethi Gürer Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMI COMI CENTER ZIYAAlTUNYALDİ (Connia), Mr. President, we can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0216par0367	Mr. President, we disagree. To talk about the motion, Tacettin Bayır, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Ridge.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0217par0371	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm reading the three lines I used to speak for the Republican People's Party Group two days ago in my exact statement: "We, my friends, are aware of how much we need the energy we consume." However, we need to stop being dependent on the outside of energy. We're not nonprofits. I've said so, and Mr. Secretary has declared us in the media the same evening. Mr. Secretary, we're not against energy production, we're just people who consume energy as much as you do, sharing the same energy. We only have renewable energy for our future generations, God bless you, you have two children, and I have two grandchildren.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0216par0373	That's three.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0217par0374	That's three? May God give you more.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0216par0375	Amen, God willing.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0217par0376	▪ Can we leave a more habitable country, a less risky country for future generations? We are discussing it here. Now, you've just made a statement in questions and answers, and you said: "In the past, it was added to the missing fugitive bills." You don't know either your bureaucrats are giving you false information or when the word "missing fugitive" is put together in the bills.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0218par0378	Costs, cost.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0217par0379	Loss is something else, fugitive is something else. What you call missing is what's lost in the process of carrying electricity from production to consumption, that's all over the world, and it's reflected in these bills all over the world. This has been reflected in Turkey since then, and you are right about that. However, the sentence "snatching" was later brought to the next location. Now, when these two words come together, when they're added to the bills, "missing" and "escaped," the question comes to my mind: If there used to be a missing fugitive in these bills, why did these bills increase twice as much? So why have these prices increased from 2002 to today, and why have they doubled it? Of course, you used something in your statement again, you said: "Friends, natural disasters are everywhere. Let God keep us away from our country, yes, there are natural disasters everywhere." But what we want to emphasize, Mr. Secretary, is that we want to draw attention to a new nuclear disaster that will bring about a natural disaster. This is another disaster. May God keep the natural disaster away from Turkey, but when a nuclear disaster comes after a natural disaster, those three children of yours, my two children, my two grandchildren, my two daughters-in-law, all of them will live at risk. May God give us all a long life. But come and think it over. Dear friends, in this proposal of the law, it is a law that is most likely to hurt us in the way that these nuclear facilities are being built on the shores and beaches and the olive groves, and unfortunately, this law is leading to the end. In areas where nuclear power facilities will rise, you pay no attention to the right resistance and the proper warnings, just as you block your ears to the trees and the actions of the villagers that were cut off for the Reecek in the Fountain Ovacık. For the past 20 years, developed countries such as America, Germany, France, Japan, Japan, are far ahead of us in technology, have gradually reduced the share of nuclear energy in total energy resources. Japan plans to shut down all its nuclear systems by the end of 2023. We're trying to present nuclear energy to society like a popular energy source, as if we'd reinvented the world. The other thing is, who do we build this plant for? The Russians who had priors for this. Where do we get the nuclear fuel for the plant? From Russia. Who's gonna run the plant? Russians. Right now, because of our Syrian policy, we're already priests with the Russians. The men left, what about that plant? Are you going to turn it off and make a mall, or are you going to hand it over to TOKI? We are now dependent on Russia from the planning of plants to the projecting of plants to the construction. 70 percent of our energy policy will be dependent on Russia with this nuclear power plant. But first of all, we're not giving up bullying. At this rate, unfortunately, the nuclear plant project will explode in Turkey's hands. I'm going to list my suggestions in my next talks. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0219par0387	Thank you, Mr. Ridge. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 4 (j) of Law Proposal 312. j) Review, detection, reporting, project approval and adoption operations with the public facilities of electricity production, transport, distribution and the establishment of and operating facilities Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan (Van) and her friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0220par0398	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0219par0399	It's Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan, Van MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0221par0402	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. I have taken a pledge on Power Market Act 312 and Article 4 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. The fourth article of the proposal aims to transfer the electricity production, transport, distribution and consumption facilities to private companies regarding their obligations to establish and operate them. Dear lawmakers, basic services such as electricity, water, natural gas are fundamental tasks that the state is obliged to offer and oversee, and the social state responsible for the public benefit cannot be expected to be in the process of using these services. Therefore, the state is expected not to be excluded from the process, but rather to be turned over to the market, private institutions, but rather to be carried out by the public by its own means. We find it hard to understand that a vague expression such as national interest and a concept such as modern technology are involved in the matter, but we know very well that AKP authorities are manipulating all proposals that have no legal basis. We see that the fiction of proposals and drafts that come to parliament, rather than the public benefit, is to bring legal basis to the gates of their own illegal rant to overcome the legal barriers of certain environments, supporters. This offer is also an arrangement for the same purpose. Our fellow MPs from the People's Democratic Party have repeatedly expressed why we are against this law after the commission meetings. In a different way, I'd like to draw your attention to some issues in this proposal that will mortgage nature. The AKP's government, which has no borders on environmental destruction during its 14-year mandate, will have failed to establish its own laws, which plan to open new looting sites for itself. It is a harbinger of the thala that awaits us in the days to come when the structures that violate environmental legislation will be exempted from criminal action until 2020. With its security policies over the past year, the ruling party, which has seized citizens' right to live, arrested thousands of people, and kept them from their freedoms, now has the goal of nature and the environment. This offer gives the AKP's power to destroy olive groves, shores, and is now intended to create space for nuclear energy studies that the world has abandoned. Precious lawmakers allow production facilities, especially for nuclear power plants, to be able to obtain licenses for construction without permission, approval, license, license, and such documents, and to begin construction of structures that are not related to the production facility without a license. Due to the construction of documents such as licenses, permits, approvals, violations of private or public property will result in damage that cannot be returned to nature. There will also be problems as to how to afford the damages that are affordable. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the bill will take the destruction of the wrong energy policies that have been going on for almost a hundred years to a great deal of time and environment. The GAP project, which has been presented as the project of the century for many years, has not contributed to the region's people or the region's economy. The Ilisu Dam, where the expected efficiency was not achieved, has only flooded Hasankeyf, who has a 12,000-year-old history. There are still unexplained power cuts in the region, and citizens are being victimised and even punished, especially in cities such as Urbana and Mardin, as I have been acting recently. Long-term policies without human and environmental indexes have destroyed living areas, mass animal deaths. Dear lawmakers, if there were dams that destroy nature, make life impossible, as well as time, I would mention some of the dams that the AKP had built at the point of the Kurdish problem's unresolved solution. Let me get this straight. There are 11 border dams under construction throughout the borders of Hakkari and Şırnak, including seven in Şırnak, one in the shape of a Wall of China, four in Hakkari. These dams, which have been built with full military needs, entered the literature as border security dams, as Turkey has given them. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0222par0414	Thank you, Mr. Ozky Ertan. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0223par0416	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0222par0417	There is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 312 Power Market Law shall be changed in accordance with the regulations of Article 4 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0224par0426	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0222par0427	It's the Deniz Depboylı Aydın MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0225par0430	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 4 of the Law Against Power Market Act 312. I salute you. The privatisation of electricity distribution companies has put the bill of those who have not been able to prevent illegal electricity use on the back of an honest citizen who is paying for the electricity he uses. However, the 4th article of the proposal provides a series of additional assignments and authorizations for corporate personalities. It is a duty to be a state of law to enforce its laws in all parts of the country. The missing price of electricity bills, the TRT share, the delivery price, the rate of delivery, the counter reading price, each one of them a separate ask. The pens, which are freaks, are an example and unfair application of the bill that is loaded with consumers. The stolen electricity has nothing to do with justice or law to make those who don't steal the price. It would be unacceptable to try to cover up the missing fugitive price scandal, which has returned from the judiciary after the consumers' rightful application, with a legal cover. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, in our country, the bill for electricity under the name of the missing fugitive is not taken from the pockets, but the Turkish nation pays the price for this electricity production in a much different way. What's he paying with? He pays with his health. Unfortunately, with the damage he does to the environment, he pays with other sources he's lost. Because of the number of hydropower plants that have been growing rapidly in my constituency, Aydın, we've spoken on this bench before, and we've given you some information. The amendments to the Geothermal Law, issued in 2007, included geothermal power plants before 2007 in the 1st degree outside of the institution, while the CED was necessary to be taken after 2007, while it was placed among the 2nd-degree non-profit institutions that were not necessary to receive the CED after 2007. Following these arrangements, it is imperative that someone who wants to open a brick factory or a fish farm today receive a CED report, but it has been removed from the need for those who have opened the hydropower plant to receive this report. Geothermal enterprises, which are encouraged by the regulation of legal regulations in their own favour, harm the environment and life of life daily in practice. First-class farmlands, figs and olive groves, geothermal plants and wells are built next to their settlements, and it is alarming to even try to be built in the historic region of Magnesia in Aydın. We've already told you, and now I'm telling you from this bench again, that geothermal plants are hurting Aydın. Look, I'm here to present you with these photos. This is a well that began to dig for geothermal plants in Aydın, which started to work, and as you can see, the fluids are left to nature. We've said this before, but unfortunately, our friends, who sat in the AKP rows, denied them, said there is no such thing. I present to you today with photographs of, look, in nature... what kind of materials are there in these fluids? Even the tests were done by the ADU, unfortunately, a little by the University of the Aegean, but it wasn't enough. Look, it's a creek bed here, and these fluids that flow through the stream here go all the way to the Great Menderes, and endanger the land of agriculture, the health of the people. Please answer some of my questions, Mr. Secretary: Who is overseeing these permitted geothermal plants, and what kind of audit is he subject to? Again, why don't all these documents to the District Environment Directorate of Aydın Governorate respond to the complaint? Why isn't anything being done about it? Again, what must be done next for these inspections to be conducted? That answers my questions, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0226par0438	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 5 that I make to read the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the term "expression" referred to in Article 5 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mustafa Kalaycı Baki Simsek Ruhi Ersoy Erkan Haberal Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Ismail Faruk Aksu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and provide you with the necessary supply and offer to change the terms of the 5th article of the Law Proposal, which is held in 312 rows. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Tahsin Tarhan Özkan Yılim Kemal Zeybek Ahmet Akın Çetin Arık Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Erkan Aydın Ömer Fethi Gürer Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 5 of the Law Proposal 312 be removed from the proposal text. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0227par0470	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0226par0471	Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0228par0474	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on Article 5 of Power Market Law 312. I salute the General Assembly. According to the proposal of the law, nuclear plants are understood to be a study of the development of coastal plants, the opening of olive groves, oil pipelines, transit crossings; electricity production and distribution, the billing of cost pens to consumers, environmental and coastal law, and a broad area to the zoning law, and a one-on-one impact on the lives of people living in the environment; an effort to regulate a broad area from air to water, tree, and electricity costs to bill them. However, even though this proposal concerns millions of citizens, it is understood that these costs have been tried to be billed to citizens in the reflection of electricity costs, to facilitate the work of interested investors, as if they are only interested in energy-investment capital companies. First of all, the fact that the proposal wasn't handled by the Environmental Commission has been a major flaw. The nuclear plants and similar energy supply work has been met with a justified response due to their negativeness at the point of environmental destruction, where most of their projects will be created by locals in their habitats. However, the Environment Commission does not have any reports on the issue. Even if there was, I'm not sure this Environmental Commission will consider it. I did, I did, and it was nothing more than an epiphany of the logic of the law when it was being discussed in the relevant commissions. Under review of the laws, the construction on the coast of the citizens, regulations such as the coastal law to prevent environmental destruction, are bypassed, creating an illegal, illegal situation with law. Instead of providing energy needs from renewable energy sources such as the sun, geothermal, wind, which will provide no harm to the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, and the human population, it is known that the effects of the nuclear plants that the world is now going to abandon will result in thousands of years of destruction. I agree with the views of my colleague, Professor Dr. Aytug Thrower, who was just speaking. I tell all people that God does not give a disabled child to my enemy. With this nuclear energy, we'll face chromosome decay, blood disease, cancer disease more often. I don't even think that God should give such a son to my enemy. It's a disaster to even consider that possibility. My fellow lawmakers have tried to resolve the problem by clearly protecting this unfair gain and unfair obligation, even though it has been made clear in the Supreme Court's decisions that the missing fugitive costs are unfair and unfair, despite the fact that it is unfair to be taken away from consumers. The fact that a situation is in the law does not refute the claim that the situation is unjust, nor does it relieve the distress that the citizen has indicated. Who's getting out of trouble here right now? Electric distribution companies are being compensated. The lost and illegal costs taken from the citizen are not being removed. So, the unfair and unfair gain of electricity distribution companies is being made legal by making it legal. I mean, you can cut the wrong income from the citizen, and that means you can continue to make that unfair profit. And when you make these unfair gains legal, do we legitimize the cost on the back of the citizen? No. The public knows it's an unfair gain and he's being billed for an unfair price, but since you added it to the law, they won't speak for it, they won't seek justice in the courts. Now, it's called legal prejudice, forcing unfair money from a citizen by law. For who? For electricity distribution companies, citizens are forced to receive money. Are we going to call it "the process of living" here? No. This law enforcement activity is clearly an unfair gain for electricity distribution companies. Again, the TRT share will continue to be reflected in electricity bills. Although the proposal was offered to remove the TRT share at the time of the commission, it was rejected, not in the interest of a citizen, but in the interest of several power distribution companies. With this law, the laws that contain environmental regulations, that the coasts will be looted under the pretext of nuclear power plants, that the olive grove will be looted, that the environmental regulations will be bypassed... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...it's clear that the costs will be billed to the citizens in order to provide a rate to the capital companies. In the interest of the corporations, it is understood that companies are looking out for the interests of companies, not for the common interest of the public, but for the sake of creating a Rant area. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0229par0488	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and offer you the means to change the terms of the 5th article of the current Law Proposal with respect to the terms of the contract. Tacettin Bayır (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0230par0497	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0229par0498	Tacettin Bayır, İzmir MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ridge.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0231par0501	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're discussing a proposal of such importance that I would like to list a total of 15 articles for the record to leave room in your minds: If this proposal becomes legal -- the offer of electricity market law -- the AKP will pave the way for entering coastal and coastal areas and olive fields to build a nuclear plant. With this bill, the AKP is in a hurry to pass a law to block the court's decision, and the missing fugitives will not be paid back. With this bill, the AKP will avoid suing the missing fugitive, $33 billion of missing fugitives will not be paid back to the citizens. With this law proposal, the AKP will provide immunity from punishment until 2019 to major structures that are completely contrary to environmental legislation. With this law proposal, the AKP will upload investment spending of distribution companies, all the missing illegal costs to our bills. With this bill, the AKP opposed the removal of the TRT accession share in the bills and received 800m euros of the citizen. With this law proposal, the AKP is legally closing its way of getting results in lawsuits for extradition of missing fugitive costs. With this law proposal, the AKP signs environmental raids for nuclear energy, bringing exceptions to coastal and zoning and environmental legislation. With this law proposal, the AKP makes exceptions to building a nuclear plant, in violation of building control rules. Again, with this law proposal, the AKP has the opportunity for domestic and renewable energy, but is headed towards an illegal nuclear energy. With this proposal of law, the AKP expands its rash publicisation decisions, folds the victimhood. With this bill, the AKP is looking for a way to fold the loads of our 36 million subscribers, electric bills. By offering this law, the AKP will not sue the missing fugitive himself, but the height of the timetable. The AKP has unfortunately rejected our proposal to remove the missing fugitive, to remove the TRT share, to reset the VAT in production electricity. With this proposal, the AKP is putting up a wall to justice with illegal laws so that it does not apply court decisions that have ended in the interest of the public. Just those reasons make it necessary for a simple citizen or a member of parliament or a party to carry this law proposal to the Constitutional Court. We know that the decisions made in the past were later broken by the Supreme Court in 2004. Let no one think that the decisions made by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are in front of the judiciary. Legislation is not in front of the judiciary, my friends; it is not in the way. The executive brings his proposal, we argue here, we convince each other, if it's reasonable and reasonable, and if it's in the interest of this country, we say yes. However, in these electricity bills that go up to two floors, where pensioners, laborers, farmers, peasants are having a hard time paying, the only reason we don't see the interests of the country, the interests of the citizens is because of the AKP itself, the execution itself. We will tell this to the people on the street, tirelessly, one by one, from village to village, from city to city, from shop to shop, from shop to shop. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0232par0520	Thank you, Mr. Ridge. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the term "expression" referred to in Article 5 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0233par0529	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0232par0530	İsmail Faruk Aksu, İstanbul MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0234par0533	Mr. President, I have been promised by the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 5 of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws by Power Market Act 312. I salute you all. At the beginning of my speech, I am informing the German Parliament's decision to take down historical and legal facts and describe the events of 1915 as genocide. Of course, it is not possible for historical facts to be changed by parliament's decision. Such hostile decisions to tarnish the glorious history of the Turkish nation are of no use to anyone. There is no logical explanation for the loss of friendship with a country like Turkey by embracing a hundred-year-old Armenian lie. Unfortunately, daily reports of martyrs continue to come in. While our military and police are fighting terrorism with all their might, some statements by the country's leadership show that the initiatives for the establishment of a new desk of destruction have been given a green light. The re-establishment of negotiating tables without the root of separatist terror, which means unity and unity of state and nation, will undoubtedly be the greatest betrayal of the memory of our martyrs. Precious lawmakers can be made possible by an integrated, multi-directed approach to Turkey's continued energy and trade game in the nearby eastern region, using its geostrategic advantage and industrial capacity in its own favour. Turkey will be able to be strongly involved in the regional energy and trade game, not only in this way but in a transit transport area. The government's energy policy is that it does not serve this purpose, it lies in a clear, unsupervised, inefficient line of non-national capital. The energy market is not organised in a way that allows for a full-competitive, transparent, participant, auditable and national energy policy. The AKP, which linked the future of energy production to natural gas, risked the future of energy in terms of resource security with its practices, and endangered supply security by increasing external dependency. Energy consumption can be upgraded to the level of developed countries, the use of internal resources and the increase in high-tech production potential. However, it is understood that the government understands internal resource use as a method of taxation and privatisation rather than self-source use. There is no justice for the taxation of energy, there is not enough struggle with the fugitive, there is no efficiency in the production, distribution and use of energy. The treasure is being damaged by long-term misappropriations. The number of casualties and fugitives in the distribution of electricity is high. There's a loss of electricity without reaching the user. Inappropriate tax policies cause smuggling. In order to ensure energy supply security in our country, energy production based on local resources such as wind, sun, geothermal is an inevitable necessity. The measures to prevent casualties and fugitives must be carried out quickly, while they will have to be imposed on honest citizens who pay the electric bill regularly. By offering the law, the investment costs of distribution companies and all missing illegal costs will be taken from consumers by law. Again, by concealing the concept of missing illegal electricity, which is not technical or technical, the concept of illegal electricity will be legalized to include the price of high-profile electricity on the pensioner, the worker, the officer, the strange guru, in short, in the bill of all responsible citizens. Dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute the General Assembly by saying that these regulations, which will restore the current wrongs of the system, which will legalise the persecution of our citizens, make these distortions legal, and effectively eliminate the ability to seek rights in the judiciary, are inadmissible.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0235par0542	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions on the 6th article. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 6 of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws under Power Market Law 312. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Simsek Ruhi Ersoy Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Desire Erdem Signed by the same motion: İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Alican Önlü The signatures of the same motion are: Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Didem Engin Kemal Zeybek Özkan Yım Erkan Aydın Cetin Arık Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Ömer Fethi Gürer Does the Commission agree with the three motions of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0236par0574	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0235par0575	He wants to talk to you about the same proposals, but he is a member of Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0237par0578	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on the 6th article of the Law Proposal, 312 rows. Article 6: Law 3213 brings an additional clause to Law 3213, adding the 12th article. The 12th article, according to this law, belongs to public institutions and organisations. The group and (b) predict that the minerals related to the mines -- such as coal, lignite, stone coal -- should also be licensed to produce electricity, not to cause loss of reserves. It's actually a proper arrangement, a reasonable arrangement. Alternatively, this arrangement could also be made temporary, so with a temporary license, then when the reserves run out, the wooding of the mining area, the forest area -- much easier to do with temporary licensing, but that would be a reasonable arrangement. My dear friends, the matter of energy is very important to Turkey, something we all have to focus on with precision. I, if you'll excuse me, would like to bring to your attention some of the matters that I consider important besides the 6th article. Mr. Secretary, in the Plan and Budget Commission, when he was in office, he gave a nice speech, after he explained the importance of energy for our country, he said that if we had to sort out our basic strategies and policies in this area, he would do it himself, and he counted up and down the work he had to do. These were pretty good, rhetorically well-ordered issues, but today, from the opposition of my friends, from their comments, from our other friends in the opposition, because the lawmakers don't speak, so they didn't give a detailed opinion on the material after all the talks on them. I understand Mr. Secretary's previous interviews aren't exactly being met. We're making a very important arrangement. With these important arrangements... it's actually the first regulation of the Minister's first permanent arrangement in the field of energy. There should be a more comprehensive arrangement for these goals. My dear friends, last year, I had a gene for mines, a gene for our Minister of Energy. The issue there was that the Ministry and the Minister knowingly allowed the details of the incident, which led to the disaster that we had experienced two years ago, with only more profit, with greed for profit, with more production, with more ambition, with more money, with the ambition to make money. I hope this doesn't happen anymore. I would like to hope that such a big profit ambition does not come to these points by employing someone, exploiting someone, at the expense of someone's life. I hope so. But other than that, I'll tell you about our energy policy: energy policies and foreign politics go away. It's very important, much more important to Turkey, much more important than other countries. Therefore, our foreign policy -- including Cyprus, including natural gas around Cyprus -- must be implemented as much as possible to meet Turkey's energy needs. But unfortunately, our foreign policy, because it's not enough, we don't have an understanding and structure that can solve problems in terms of our energy policies, and there's a lot of trouble. However, regarding the natural gas in Cyprus, the minister said there was no significant reserve in the Plan and Budget Commission. Then I looked into it again, and it's very important, as far as I can tell. I'd like to ask him to re-examine this matter, to be known that it's important. I hereby pay my respects to everyone.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0238par0586	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. He wants to talk about the other proposal of the same nature, İdris Baluken, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0239par0590	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I made a promise on Law Proposal 312. This is where our friends express our objections to both the energy policies imposed by the AKP (AKP) and the violation of the existing law proposal, as well as its aspects of the Constitution and the law, as well as its merits. Of course, none of our motions, as usual, are considered by the ruling party. None of the motions made by all the opposition, not just us, are considered. This is actually an indication of the respect you've had for parliamentary democracy or the importance you've given to parliamentary democracy. So, I'd like to stress a few things about that. I would like to submit to the information of the Parliamentary General Assembly and Turkey's public opinion how the conditions for doing democratic politics in Turkey are consumed by the AKP, rather than whether or not a motion is taken into consideration here. Look, we're the third group in Parliament with the largest number of MPs. Parliament's third-largest parliamentary group is seeking to be expelled from Parliament with a constitutional amendment proposal passed here. We've expressed our objections to this decision-making process over and over again. However, after this offer was passed, we planned some work at the point of developing a political stance of our people against this process, telling our people about it. In what we call the public meeting of democratic politics, all the political work we've done has been blocked and attacked. I took a field trip last week on the Siirt-Batman-Batman line. Everywhere we set foot, I was greeted with gas bombs, pressured waters, TOMA. Now, we would like to implement the work of rallying in all Turkey, which is the top stage of these public gatherings, starting this weekend. We've planned four big rallies in four major cities and our friends have been working for a week. Prohibitions have been imposed on our four rallies in Diyarbakır, İzmir, Adana and İstanbul by your party governors. So a political party wants to be compressed in a situation where they can't hold a rally in Turkey. What's the motive? Security. There may have been an attack, but we have to consider certain risks for safety. So, if you can't provide the conditions for a political party to rally over security, where's your government, where's your government? Where's your public order of war policies that you've been turning this city into a bloodbath for months? It's the government's job, of course, to ensure security. Is that credible or sincere? Every day, the President is rallying at airports, even in cities where he has reached the tangent. Every day, AKP officials hold public meetings and rallies in the open, wherever they set foot in the city. You don't have any security concerns about him, you provide him, you recently appointed a mini army at the victory banquet in Istanbul. However, when it comes to HDP, such things are brought forward to create a motive, only to seek a cover for suppressive, prohibitive, authoritarian practice. Look, before June 7th, the election work of this party was attacked in 140 places, it came to light; after 7 June, it was attacked in 400 places prior to November 1st. My HDP friend, the driver who drove the party's vehicle, was executed with 40 bullets, 40 bullets, and as of today, there is no killer, no one knows who killed him. His only crime was to use the electoral tool in HDP's election work. Again, we shared over and over again the information that Mehmet Yavuzel had been murdered here, in Cleopatra, in Turkey. Now, we're under heavy censorship in the media. The media agency that got us out is either being shut down or they're being fined. So, what do you suggest? So, if a political party can't work through the media, if it can't meet the public, if it can't meet the public, what's your suggestion? Look, the President brought down a click that he used to use on the hard line, called out to the PKK, put down the guns, and come to the parliament to do politics, he said. So, what's the status of the House? You're trying to get him out of Congress, or you're preventing the political party from going out on the street.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0240par0600	Are you a continuation of the PKK?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0239par0601	I mean, when such a situation, such a contradiction, do you believe any of this in any way?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0240par0602	Are you a representative of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) or a representative of the Parliament?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0239par0603	I, on the President's word...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0240par0604	Are you a representative of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0239par0605	I'm considering the president's statement.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0240par0606	Are you the agent?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0239par0607	I'm considering the president's statement.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0240par0608	Are you his agent?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0239par0609	Look, we all want guns out of this country, into democratic politics.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0241par0610	We've heard it a lot, a lot.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0239par0611	But for the way and the way it works, a little rational mind, a little logic, a little democratic politics...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0242par0612	What does the July 11th KCK statement say?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0239par0613	... I'm saying we need to open the space. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0243par0616	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Arzu Erdem İstanbul MP who wants to talk about the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0244par0620	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 6 of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws by Power Market Act 312. I salute the nation of St. Turk and the Grand Assembly. Valuable lawmakers are ordered to be licensed separately by the ministry's approval for electricity production, which will not cause the loss of licenses related to the 6th substance we are talking about, the radish, the linity of public institutions, the coal, methane gas related to coal, and other such substances. Connecting the ministry's approval to separate licenses will result in the immediate consumption of limited energy sources, which aims to produce energy. And that is the greatest punishment we will give to our future generations. As our country's energy needs grow rapidly, the relevant ministry is unable to keep up with this speed and finds the solution in these kind of day-to-day arrangements, which we see clearly from the numbers. By the end of 2014, the amount of natural gas in electricity production in 2015 was 47.9%, while it dropped to 37.9% at the end of last year. 25.8 per cent of total electricity production is provided by hydropower plants, 12 per cent by lignite, 15.2 per cent by imported coal, 4.4 per cent by wind and 1.3 per cent by geothermal sources. In 2015, the country found it suitable to meet 21.3 per cent of electricity production from public power plants and the rest from private sector plants, and 2.8 per cent of electricity used last year was imported from neighbouring countries. In this case, domestic production has been reduced from 32 per cent to 26 per cent in 14 years. Dear lawmakers, the use of various, reliable, balanced, environmentally acceptable energy sources is of great importance in sustainable development. While meeting the growing demand for energy, minimizing the risk of global climate change is one of the most important issues of our day. Because of the policies in our country, last December, the United Nations Conference on Climate Change sides had to be committed to the goal of reducing the increase rather than a clear reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The World Environment Performance, published once every two years from international indicators that the government has never cared about, in 2016, Turkey has unfortunately been the 99th country between 180 countries. As you can see from the numbers, we can safely say that for the past 14 years, our country has not used its coal reserves correctly in many ways, including the environment size. The policy the government proposes to assess the potential of lignity in both the action plan or the strategy document is to introduce coal fields to international companies on a gold platter, in the form of a guarantee of demand, share of revenues or guarantee of a certain amount of time. Finally, according to the recent regulations made by the Energy Market Editor's Office on the electric bills, the price of sanctions and the price of processing were removed, replaced by the price of distribution. The distribution price in the bills sent to the consumer is more than 50% of all energy costs. We all know that, and it reflects on all of our electric bills. On 13 April 2016, I asked the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources in writing, and yesterday, I asked the Minister again verbally, and I would like to ask you again: "What amount is included in the amount reflected under the name of the bill?" As a result of these arrangements, is there a difference between the amount taken from subscribers under the name "Appropriation" and the amount taken prior to the arrangement? The Energy Market Law aims to provide low-cost energy. Do you feel that this sum collected from our nation under the name of the payment is a violation of the purpose? Finally, do you find these prices of payment to our nation, which have been bent through taxes, to be fair? Thank you. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit03spe0245par0630	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. I'm taking a break from the merger until 8:20.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit04spe0245par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 98th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 312. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are four motions on the 7th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in the framework of Law Proposal 312, which is currently in session, in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş Ramadan Can Halil Eldemir Osman Love Look Fatma Benli Özcan Ulupınar MADDE 7-20/2/2001 and Article 5 of Article 5 of Energy Market Editing Institution 4628 have been replaced as "seven" and the following joke has been added to the article. "The Council can hand over some or all of the powers vested in it by the law on the introduction of preconditions, licenses and certificates defined in the relevant market laws, tasting, temporarily halted, and aborting pre-research and investigation procedures to the presidency and/or related service unit." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "one" referred to in Article 7 of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws by Power Market Act 312, which is currently in session, be changed to "a proper" in Article 7 of the Law. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Simşek Mehmet Erdoğan Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Ruhi Ersoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal No. 312 is scheduled to be replaced by Article 7/02/2001, and we propose and propose to change the subsection of Article 5 of Article 5 of the Law Against Energy Market Management Agency No. 4628 in the following way. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Alican Önlü Nine of the members of Kurul are appointed by the Council of Ministers, who have graduated from at least four years of higher education institutions, public institutions and institutions, or private sectors, who have at least ten years of experience and have a theme among those who have trained in law, political information, administrative sciences, public administration, economics, engineering, business or finance. The two are appointed by the Council of Ministers as part of the proposal of the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures. Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and offer the necessary supply and proposal for the change of the 7th amendment of Law Proposal 312. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Kemal Zeybek Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Didem Engin Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Erkan Aydın Özkan Yimım Çetin Arık Ömer Fethi Gürer Article 7-20/02/2001 and Article 5 of Article 5 of Article 5 of Energy Market Editorial Institution 4628 have been changed to. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit04spe0246par0044	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit04spe0245par0045	It's Kazim Arlen, Congressman of the Navy who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit04spe0247par0048	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment to Article 7 of the 312 Power Market Law and to the amendment to the Amendment to some Laws. I salute you all with love. Dear lawmakers, this clause that we're discussing is leading to a very problematic framework of control and responsibility by giving the very critical permissions of the Energy Market Organization to sub-service units. It can be assigned to another service unit on issues such as grants, tastes, temporary halts, cancellations, and preliminary investigations. It is said that this service unit does not exist, unfortunately. We object to the violation of this law, especially the Constitution. In a narrow commission on this objection, we discussed this issue with our friends on these issues, with the President, and although this law is contrary to the Constitution, in violation of the Civil Code, we said what we thought should be done to prevent it from coming back to Parliament after it was cancelled, unfortunately, we have not made any progress in the matter of the Constitution's Article 2, Article 10, Article 10, Article 10, Article 11, 36, 43, and Article 56, which is clearly in violation of the Articles of the Constitution. Now, once this law is in effect, it is clear that once the rule of law will be broken, environmental rights will be eliminated, property rights will be destroyed, social state principle will be destroyed, the principle of separation of forces will be destroyed, the rules of search and operation of natural resources will be destroyed. It is seen that by this law, the citizen has eliminated the freedom of rights in the judiciary in every way, and has clearly put constitutional provisions on the shelf and ignored them. With the exceptions and privileges involved in the proposal, the 10th article of the Constitution has been clearly violated, and no one, family, group or class can be granted privileges. We find that this law is being passed in contrary to this decree. The real reason for this proposal is seen on December 17th and 25th, and the corruption of that day is clearly reflected in this law. We also see that the price of electricity has been paid around 105 lira for raw electricity, along with taxes on the raw price of electricity, and many tariffs have increased to 110 percent, including meaningless pens. In order to reduce this burden, he really has to pay attention to some issues both in terms of the setting of the Energy Market Board and to determine prices and to remove unnecessary pens from this timetable. Also, the removal of the TRT turnout is our recommendation, which would be absolutely useful in removing it in businesses, especially in factories. Thank you, I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit04spe0248par0055	Thank you, Mr. lion. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit04spe0249par0059	Request roll call.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit04spe0248par0060	There's a request for a roll call, and I'll do the roll call first. Mr. Gök, Mr. Bayır, Mr. Erol, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Bektaşoğlu, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Engin, Mr. Torun, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Green, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Toğul. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0248par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 98th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough attendance in the roll call before the vote of Denizli MP Kazim Arslan and his friends on the 7th article of Law Proposal 312. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Now, I'm going to find out if any of the friends who voted by ballot are present at the General Assembly. First, we'll cross-reference the list with the compasses. Mr. Nice? Here. Mr. Secretary? Here. Mr. Karaburun? Here. Yeah, there's plenty of meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal from where we left off. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal No. 312 is scheduled to be replaced by Article 7/02/2001, and we would like to propose and change the second joke in the first joke of Article 5 of the Law Against Energy Market Management Agency No. 4628. Nine of the members of Kurul are appointed by the Council of Ministers, who have graduated from at least four years of higher education institutions, public institutions and institutions, or private sectors, who have at least ten years of experience and have a theme among those who have trained in law, political information, administrative sciences, public administration, economics, engineering, business or finance. The two are appointed by the Council of Ministers as part of the proposal of the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures. Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı (Bitlis) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0250par0028	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0248par0029	It's Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı, Bitlis MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0251par0032	Mr. President, on behalf of my Democratic Party of Peoples and my group, I have taken a pledge on the 7th Amendment of Law Bill 312. I salute you and the public. Dear lawmakers, the AKP has shown a centralist approach to the formation of boards as well as in many areas, and is on the basis of increasing its own activity. Many institutions and boards formed by the state's hands in Turkey should work with trade unions, associations and foundations, an expert in the pluralistic approach and field in that area, while power has been transformed into areas where its own desires and desires will be formed. The institution and organisation must be based on two basic dynamics when they are being formed or reshaped. One is the democracy that should be in every field; the other is the presence of individuals who are expert, experienced, self-made in the field. The board and institutions should always have all kinds of associations, unions and organisations with critical perspectives. The criticism, in its simple size, means not only to slow down what is destructive and what is to be done, but also to bring it into existence with healthier, more accurate, more constructive channels. The mechanisms for such criticism must be included in this law. That's exactly the point of the amendment proposal we've made. In the amendment proposal, nine of Kurul and its members are appointed by the Council of Ministers, who have graduated from at least four years of higher education institutions that teach in law, political information, administrative sciences, public administration, economics, engineering, business or finance, at least ten years in public institutions or private sectors. The two members are appointed by the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the Turkish Union of Engineers and Architectures. On the other hand, they were asked to step up the capacity of the board, while on the other hand, to stand in front of a structure that would only be under the hegemony of the Council of Ministers and to prepare the infrastructure for more effective tasks of engineering and architecture. So instead of a board with a low profile, we've presented this proposal to transform this area into a equipped, pluralistic, more productive area, as in many stages of life. Of course, it's not going to work for power, because the goal is to create things that can be activated by the mind, not by power. When the bill of law presented by the ruling party is examined in its general terms, it includes many changes from lost illegal administrations to incentives to nuclear plants and coal plants and concessions, from the transfer of the public's original duties to private companies to the energy companies as quickly as possible. Of course, we'll look into them separately, but there's a particular point to stress, which is the missing part of the fugitive. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is the duty of all of us and every deputy to look out for the rights and interests of the people here. Today, the ruling party has brought the public all the cost and the bill to cover the damage of capital, let alone the rights of the people here. It's impossible to accept. The government has entered into such a work that it is trying to prevent the gains taken back by the public through legal means, along with the laws it will adopt. See, between 2006 and 2014, 33 billion euros, collected from the public under the name of the missing fugitive, is considered illegal. But with the bill you're now planning to pass here, it's going to be on the back of the citizen. I'd like to make one more point. In his speech, the Energy Minister compared the 2002 and 2016 electricity bill. Although it's not an index at all, but the need for a family of four is not 200, it's 250 kilowatts, and it's a minimum wage... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...when you compare it, it's not 20.3 per cent in 2002, it's 15 per cent in 2016, but 8.5 per cent in 2016. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0252par0043	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 312 Power Market Law shall be changed to the 7th Amendment of the Law Against some Laws." Emin Haluk Ayhan (Marine) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0253par0052	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0252par0053	It's Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0254par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have been promised a amendment motion on the 7th amendment of the proposal. I salute the grand jury. What was happening here, and what was your excuse when you left from 7 to 9? You're using the fallout as an excuse. Your goal was to find a new job. Why are you doing this now from 9 to 7? So there was an interview or a need, which was not clear enough. In fact, our motion is a motion that would not cause you any trouble if the government and the Commission joined. In fact, it's also extremely important for the development of mutual relations in the courtesy of the job. Something that won't give you any trouble, but I can see that both I and the Commissioner are having second thoughts about our friend. So when we give these, we want to meet here, we make a motion when necessary, we change our motion when necessary. We're sometimes told there's a mistake in our proposals, and we express our views on them. Now, from this dialogue, as I see it, you're a little absent. We were invited yesterday; thank you, Mr. President invited us, but we were actually invited to be convinced, so we didn't get any rest there, so that's how it went after the mutual gestures of goodwill. This motion is what we've given the government in order to make the matter more understandable, how it sees the situation in mutual relations as well as in the development of mutual relations. That's why we put it there, how to better understand it. Mr. Secretary, the law is really important. In your speech here, you stated that some of them are obsessed with the Civil Code and others are obsessed with the Constitution and so on, or you used a similar expression, not one-on-one motamot. Now, that's really important: I've made a statement there that we won't be disruptive, even though we've had an infraction of the Civil Code. Rest assured, I later asked the experienced, knowledgeable commissioners of the AKP: "Where are we making a mistake here? Why are we doing this against the Internal Charter? Why are we pushing each other?" I asked them, "Is there no solution?" And I found out, indeed, it contributed to me. I'll share it with the Commissioner. There's also some friends who know how to do this. Where are these problems coming from? There are urgent needs in your bidet. The solution to urgent needs requires a very urgent legal arrangement and practical investment in the field. In doing so, there are certain legal setbacks; problems arise in mutual, private sectors, investments, etc. or other issues. The problem becomes inextricable when it moves to the legal dimension; it is true, but it's because it's not really well thought out, it's because it's not well organized, it's because it's in a hurry, the opposition's warnings are ignored. Now, half of this offer here is an attempt to clean up the pollution in the past, isn't it? When you look at it, it's something that's trying to fix them, and you're making these arrangements, and tomorrow, when the opposition takes it back to the legal authorities, it's going to be completely inextricable. So I don't think... You've been here before. You say, "It's not the first time." You say, "It's true, but the opposition has put the same evils before, and so has he. It's actually a problem, rather than opposition, that the government hasn't been able to resolve something this urgent in so long, that the government hasn't. You brought it in, you went through all of our blockages, and we gave it a problem? We said if it's legal, it'll go away, but in case it's any trouble for you in the future, come on, let's go over it again and again. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0255par0067	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in the framework of Law Proposal 312, which is currently in session, in the following way. Özcan Ulupınar (Zonguldak) and his friends MADDE 7-20/2/2001 and Article 5 of Article 5 of Energy Market Editing Institution 4628 have been replaced as "seven" and the following joke has been added to the article. "The Council can hand over some or all of the powers vested in it by the law on the introduction of preconditions, licenses and certificates defined in the relevant market laws, tasting, temporarily halted, and aborting pre-research and investigation procedures to the presidency and/or related service unit." Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, ENERGY LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISSION PRESIDENT ZIYA ALTUNYALDİ (Connia) ▪ We commend you with a positive opinion, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0256par0078	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0255par0079	Özcan Ulupınar, Zonguldak MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Nupınar.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0257par0082	Mr. President, I have received your word on the motion on the 7th Amendment of the proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. At the beginning of my speech, I ask God's mercy to my fellow martyr, Okan Korkut, my brother, and to all our martyrs. My condolences to the grieving relatives. God will give them patience and grant them a good life. Hopefully, it will be the last, and I hereby condemn and condemn those who support terror, terror. Dear friends, matter and bureaucratic procedures are meant to be shortened and accelerated. It can take a long time for everything to come to the board. A quick structure is envisioned for the immediate resolving of negativity and for the continuation of audits, preliminary research and investigations in the sector. In the same way, the Council will be able to transfer some or all of the powers vested in it by the law on giving licenses and certificates, tasting, temporary suspension, cancellation, and preliminary investigation into the service department. In addition, the licensing process of companies that will operate in the market is envisioned in a practical way, accelerating with this clause. Dear friends, when we get out here, I want to talk about Zonguldak, the power base Zonguldak as Congressman. You know, 7 per cent of Turkey's electricity production is covered by Zonguldak. The thermal power plants in the fortach -- it has two thermal plants -- produce 7 per cent of Turkey's energy. It was said here again that Turkey's Taşkomömu Agency has been producing coal for a hundred and fifty years. It is a city with 1.3 billion tons of coal reserves. From the early years of the Republic to this day, the engine of the industry has been Zonguldak. Hopefully, if this coal production is increased, the coal Turkey needs will be provided by Zonguldak. This coal is high-calorie, smellable stone coal, and is found nowhere but Zonguldak in Turkey. During the time of our governments, Mr. President landed in the mine in Zonguldak when he was Prime Minister. Our former Minister of Energy -- amongst us -- has come to Zonguldak many times, has landed in the mine; even in Ramazan -- has become a tradition -- has always done his first honor in Zonguldak with our workers in the negative 560 jeans of the ground; we thank him. Our current Minister spent the first day of the new year with our fellow miners in Zonguldak. 5,000 workers and staff were taken; not enough; the norm staff is 14 thousand -- yes, it's been said -- the number of employees is now in the 9,000. Turkey needs this coal. First of all, factories and thermal plants, such as ERDEMIR, which operates there, need it. They provide some of the coal from Zonguldak and some from abroad. Hopefully, if the local coal is encouraged, this coal will be met by Zonguldak. It just wouldn't be right to reduce it to TTK, Zonguldak. In our era, our Zonguldak was invested in about 7 quadrillion public investments. We have two cities, Kozlu and Kilimli. The Filios Project was tendered on March 19th of last year. It has a grant of around 200 million, and the price of publicisation is also paid to our citizens there. The airport opened in our time. Hopefully in the coming days we'll have public investments in our Zonguldak. Public investments in our counties have reached the point of completion. Work on the stadium at Zonguldak headquarters, work on the hospital, work on TOKI continues. In our 5,000 martyrs, Zonguldak, I hope there will be no more mining accidents, and this coal will be removed from the ground and added value, and the employment will be contributed. Mr. Minister has just told us that there will be work in the coming days for the production to profit and to increase employment. I wish with this feeling, this thought that this law would bring blessings to our country, to our nation. I salute your high council, thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0258par0093	Thank you, Mr. Nupınar. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the motion which has just been passed: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 7th article has been accepted. There are three motions regarding the 8th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 8 of Article 8 of the Law Proposal to the amendment to some Laws under Power Market Act 312. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Kemal Zeybek Cetin Arik Özkan Yım Erkan Aydın Seyit Torun Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Ömer Fethi Gürer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the entire area of the area referred to in Article 8 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws should be changed in the form of the entire area. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Simsek Ruhi Ersoy Ahmet Selim Yurdakul İsmail Faruk Aksu Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the number 13 (13) be replaced as follows in Article 8 (13) of the current Law Proposal 312. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Alican Önlü Ayhan Bilgen 13) The city: the entire area of the municipality of Belde, or the municipality of the municipality and the municipality of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0259par0128	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0258par0129	It's Ayhan Bilgen, Kars MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0260par0132	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, I believe one of the most nonproblemable items in this package is the 8th Amendment. The definition of the city in the Natural Gas Market Law refers to the regulation of the capital cities, covering the area of the mujavir. So, I'm very, in fact, the general energy policy, and what is the expectation of overcoming the problems of consumer arbitration committees and courts, which are causing this proposal to come up today, and I'm going to make a few points about what that means in the local community, especially with consumers. Dear lawmakers, energy policies include not only energy issues, but also foreign policy relations. Because Turkey's fundamental strategy for energy policy stems from geography, and its geographical position is based on the energy corridor and the energy terminal strategy so that it can be converted into an energy advantage. We have a very clear picture of the energy sources around Turkey and the security of these energy sources in supply. There must be peace and good relations in the region at once in Iraq and Syria, in the south, and in Iran, and in Russia, which exists in our birth, and in Russia, northeast, so that policy on energy transport can produce concrete results as a strategic goal. From these countries, yes, there is a new process with Iran, because of global developments, but other than that, there is a very intense conflict in our south, and Turkey is having serious problems with the central governments of both countries, as well as with very large ceremonies, celebrations, feasts, and in some way nearly all of the projects that have been announced have been put on hold. Now, in this case, in a foreign policy crisis like this, a country has to completely relocate its energy strategy to the ground and do serious, radical planning, but unfortunately, we're only discussing the extent of saving the situation. When it comes to consumers who are causing the issue to be raised, I just want to remind you of two cases that I'm going to pass on to the courts, consumer committees, referee committees. One is very common, one is a case in almost all of the villages in the centre where there is no water; the other is a more specific, more specific situation. In these villages, water problems are directly related to the electricity problem -- because there is no water in the village -- the traditional photograph you know -- women carry drinking water on their backs with buckets, but in these central villages, especially in which livestock are dealing with animal transport water and animals don't need water, and this water is met by artesians. But the power bills of the artesians are so high that when even a few families from the village fail to pay their own share of the bill, the electricity of the village is cut off, and when the electricity is cut off, watering the village's only source of livelihood, water supplying its animals, water supplying its needs. Each time it's reconstructed, and unfortunately, the animals that are already extremely troubled have a similar crisis after that. Now, in this case, is it the firms that need to be looked after, protected, or are they the farmers, the peasants who live in the position of addiction to energy, electricity? Another case, it's about transformers. Sugar beets production is especially important to Kars because there are only one factory in Kars, which is a sugar beet processing factory, and unfortunately the factory workers support the production of sugar beets to keep this factory open. But unfortunately, the electric distributors want the beet-producing villagers to build the transformer themselves, and beyond that, to buy some electronic material for themselves. There's no way a year's worth of beet production could cover the cost of that transformer. Now, do you think these conflicts should end up in favor of the villagers or in favor of the firms? I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0261par0139	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the entire area of the area referred to in Article 8 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws should be changed in the form of the entire area. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0262par0148	We agree.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0261par0149	Anyone want to talk about a motion that the commission disagreed with, the government participated in?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0263par0150	Motive...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0261par0151	I'm reading the reason: With this arrangement, the matter has been made more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 8 of Article 8 of the Law Proposal to the amendment to some Laws under Power Market Act 312. İrfan Copper (Isparta) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0264par0162	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0261par0163	Seyit Torun, MP of the Army will talk about the motion the commission disagrees with, the government has left to appreciate. Here you go, Mr. Grandson.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0265par0166	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 8 of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws by Power Market Act 312. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, I would first like to point out that political power does not have a successful energy policy in terms of energy production and consumption and energy investments and energy costs, energy supply security and domestic renewable energy production opportunities. Our country, the 18th largest economy in the world and Europe, failed when it came to energy. It is one of the fastest countries in the past 13 years of AKP power where energy demand growth has occurred. In particular, however, local and renewable energy sources have yet to complete their incentive models with the necessary legal preparation and comprehensive investments. The lack of security of the justice mechanism, where the legal infrastructure is broken, is also a negative factor in energy that determines the continuity of domestic and foreign investments. Dear lawmakers, the security of a sustainable energy supply is of great importance in the development process. The dependence on import resources in electricity production has steadily increased during the AKP administration period, as a matter of fact. In 2014, electricity production increased its share of imports to 62.6 per cent, making a pik. It is impossible to understand Turkey's willingness to build a nuclear power plant with such an external dependency that it will bring fuel from the outside and leave its business to foreigners. This is a step that will increase external dependency. The developments with Russia have affected Turkey in terms of its dependence on energy outside. This law offers restrictions on renewable energy sources, exemptions to nuclear and coal plants; orientation in renewable energy will be reversed; it will bring new loads to consumers; it will ensure the collection of lost fugitive costs by hiding them. Mr. President, good lawmakers, along with the missing and fugitive problem after privatisations, one of the big problems for the public is that electricity has become expensive. The increase in electricity since 2008 has reached 150 per cent for a family of four who have done a minimum consumption of 230 kilowatts per hour. Thus, electricity spending, which was $36.4 a month in 2007, exceeded $90 as of October 2015. The most noticeable pen in the bill is the retail service price, which has increased 545 per cent. The claim that privatisations would end illegal use of electricity has failed, and it has been discovered that the goal has not been to end illegal electricity use, but has been developed as a basis for privatisation and an argument for the transfer of funds to some companies. Turkey's fundamental weakness in natural gas, supply security. To ensure supply security in countries with high gas import dependency, you have to have storage capacity of up to 20 to 30 per cent of the annual consumption, but Turkey is the least lacking in the size of gas storage in European countries. It is critical to store and store natural gas when demand is low, and to continue transmitting uninterrupted natural gas when demand is high and supply is troubled. The current structure of the natural gas market in Turkey is not suitable for the private sector to invest in a gas storage facility. The five-year supply of natural gas imported annually will cause serious problems in municipal and mujavir areas. We can't be sure that scientific research has been done in this regard, while CED reports by the government have been ignored. With this storage, their lives will be threatened for five years in the homes of our citizens. In addition, the government must immediately learn from the processes and abandon nuclear power plant projects. Unfortunately, neither the newly established government programme nor the appointed Minister offers hope for the solution of energy policies and problems. With these thoughts, I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0266par0175	Thank you, Mr. Grandson. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the motion which has just been adopted: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article has been accepted. There are three motions on the 9th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "or the existing distribution zones may be divided into multiple license zones" in the subcommittee of Article 4646 of Law 4 (g) which is added to the 4th joke (g) in the subcommittee. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Akin Kemal Zeybek Cetin Arik Didem Engin Özkan Yım Ömer Fethi Gürer Erkan Aydın Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is authorized to determine "the ratio of natural gas to its storage obligations in national territory within five years, not more than 20 per cent, considering the current underground storage capacity in the country. The board organises control and fundamentals of storage capacity with a regulation." In the form of the subcommittee #5, "The scope of the distribution zone of the distribution companies, technical and economic needs can be redefined or expanded by the Council, not to exceed the province limits." We provide and propose that it be edited. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Simsek Ruhi Ersoy Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of Law Proposal 312 be removed from the proposal text. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0267par0206	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0266par0207	It's Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan, Van MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0268par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 9th Amendment to the Power Market Act 312, and on the 9th Amendment of the Law Proposal. I salute you all. The 9th article of the proposal gives the Energy Markets Editorial Board a wide range of powers. For example, the scope of the distribution area of the distribution companies can be redesigned or expanded without being tendered by the Council, regardless of technical and economic needs. Dear lawmakers, the AKP governments, who are no longer competing in corruption, will not be satisfied with attracting public finances to their supporters, which now gives the Electric Market Editing Board of Electricity in the distribution of electricity. As you know, corruption in the privatisation of 11 companies of TEDAS has also been reflected in the Court reports that more than $1 billion has been transferred into the deposit box of six companies that have received the tenders. AKP's privatisation of the energy sector has brought corruption with it. The changes in the situation have broken down the integrity of the sector, which requires central planning, and the results have opened the door to the period when today came as corruption and chaos. Private companies have been provided with regulations that facilitate transfer but control is almost impossible. For example, all contracts linked to TEİASC and private companies on behalf of the Ministry have been issued a confidentiality clause. Thus, the possibility of public knowledge of the regulations against the public with the relevant institutions and organizations has been eliminated by the concept of a secret. Moreover, for all of the plants built with the do-and-work model, there were no announcements, no bids from other companies, and no tenders were made. There's no practice anywhere in the world for a whole process of dealing with the minister, the bureaucrat and the company. This is a rude robbery in the name of liberalization. The public's inefficiency, inefficiency, the inefficiency, the privatisation of resources, the corruption of the public, has put the public into such a shortage of resources, that for years, the national budget's investment pen has been at a very low point of extinction. After that, it is not even possible to calculate the financial size of the mortgage that was placed under the country's economy because of the agreements. The cost of kilowatts, often due to electricity over 10 cents, was removed from natural gas circuit plants and reduced the amount of electricity energy production to 15 percent due to 2 cents worth of coal plants. This is the tragic end to the cheap electrical claim of privatisation. The executive staffs, the political power they had behind them, and the shift between the groups of interests that brought this political power to power, have become so uncompromising that they have ignored the law, rather than feel connected to any ethical value. It is also not possible to explain energy corruption by its individual ethical lowness alone. In our country, corruption in the energy sector is institutionalized. The way to fight corruption is through anti-privatisation policies that advocate public space against neoliberal policies. Finally, with this offer, we see again a classic AKP policy, and I'd like to stress that we're dealing with an understanding that we're free of the demands of the public, that delivers the country's sath to neoliberal policies. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0269par0220	Thank you, Mr. Ozky Ertan.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0270par0223	We have a roll call, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0269par0224	There's got to be a roll call. Before I put the motion to a vote, I'm going to name the MPs who have requested a roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Bayır, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Bakır, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Torun, Mr. Engin, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Arık, Mr. Man, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Green, Mr. Bay Bayuttutan, Mr. Tanal. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is authorized to determine "the ratio of natural gas to its storage obligations in national territory within five years, not more than 20 per cent, considering the current underground storage capacity in the country. The board organises control and fundamentals of storage capacity with a regulation." In the form of the subcommittee #5, "The scope of the distribution zone of the distribution companies, technical and economic needs can be redefined or expanded by the Council, not to exceed the province limits." We provide and propose that it be edited. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0271par0242	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0269par0243	Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu, Hatay MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0272par0246	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the People's Movement Party Group in Article 9 of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws by Power Market Act 312. I salute your high council. Precious lawmakers have stated that with the regulation of Article 9 of the proposal, 20 per cent of the amount of natural gas will be stored in national lands in order to ensure natural gas supply security, as well as the need for the required daily capacity to be managed if there is a reduction. This ratio has already increased from 10% to 20%. Where, how to store it, how to take precautions regarding security, how to make storage control is not specified in law enforcement. National stock checks are made based on the statement of importers in fuel, while the assessments are known to lack control. It remains unclear whether or not the obligations have been met. At the commission meeting, there was no concrete information about the latest state of national stocks. Dear lawmakers, another amendment allows the distribution sector coverage of distribution companies to be redesigned or expanded by the Council, regardless of technical and economic requirements, without being tendered. This is a violation of the Public Contraction Act, which gives the Federation infinite authority. Enlargement, however, is not an obstacle to retributing the day's terms on a single condition. I'd like to point out that we're against this non-profit approach on behalf of our citizen. Why is it still legal for distribution companies when all investments, plumbing, missing expenses are being taken under the name of nontechnical and technical missing persons? Precious lawmakers are the priority of the distribution company, which is more than a total number of subscribers by the Council, if there is a demand for expansion of several distribution companies operating within the same district of the city, without considering regional diversity, consumer profiles. In this way, it will be equal to the distribution companies and large distribution companies, which have a low number of subscribers due to geographical conditions that invest. Instead of a fair arrangement, the government has been able to make it easy to apply competitive conditions in favour of some companies. This practice, which is an anti-competitive attitude, has taken its place in Article 9 under legal conditions. Precious lawmakers have been rejected by AKP MPs in the Commission, despite insisting that the capacity of storage is important for the regulation of control, procedure and fundamentals, and that the scope of the distribution sector of distribution companies is important for the care of the public interests of the amendments we have made in terms of the tender or expansion of the state, not to exceed the technical and economic requirements. As the National Movement Party, I once again express that the proposal of the law was prepared to protect the distribution companies with a mind free of transparency and supervision, and I salute your High Council.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0273par0253	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "or the existing distribution zones may be divided into multiple license zones" in the sub-arranged subcommittee of Article 9/46 and Article 4 (g) added to the 4th joke (g) of Law Article 4). Kazim lion and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0274par0262	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0273par0263	Aykut Erdoğdu wants to talk about the motion, İstanbul MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0275par0266	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 9th Amendment. It's a matter that normally has to be ten substances that make extremely important arrangements, and we only have five minutes. They're setting up two headlines, one of which is related to distribution companies, natural gas distribution companies. In privatizing these things, there will be no constants, there will be no... many. This neoliberalism has told us lies, and now they're monopoly. ▪ Only one company can be assigned in two cities. However, such issues as the development of cities, consumption capacity, and the number of users can be increased by the Council's decision, he says. How much can it be increased? 10, 15, 20, 25, 30... there's no limit. However, not even two cities had to be given side by side to prevent monopoly because such horizontal monopoly can increase prices and break the consumer's back. There's a lot of other stuff here, and there's the storage issue, the storage of natural gas. Friends, the demand for this natural gas is very low in summer and spring, the demand for winter is very high, and we're making international gas deals, and we're guaranteeing the amount, we're going to get 10 billion cubic metres from you, and even if we don't, we're going to pay for it. We need to build proper transmission lines, compressor facilities and storage facilities. Have you been in power for 14 years, have you built natural gas storage facilities? Unable to do so. Well, these compressor facilities and transmission lines... there's a lot of corruption, a lot of it. Yeah, I'm not saying that either, but there's a Blue Stream indictment from the court indictment, and there's so much embarrassing corruption in the Blue Stream indictment that they don't want anyone to hear about it. And in this country, the bureaucrats of this country, the businessmen of this country -- that's where the Department of Energy bureaucrats themselves know -- were paid off as prostitutes in five-star hotels, friends, and do you know why they were given this? We need to build storage facilities under the Salt Lake. If we put it in storage, we'll put it in storage in the summer, we'll use it from that warehouse in winter, so that billions of dollars can be bought or paid. We won't go into obligation. In the 2000s, Ta received a $1 billion loan from the World Bank to build a gas storage facility under the Salt Lake, and then we read from the Court's reports that the tender has been canceled continuously and continuously because they can't give it to the company, and the bureaucratic team who called it off says to him, "The Tuz Lake gang has been sentenced." What happened to that Salt Lake gang that couldn't build gas storage facilities? We started producing electricity from natural gas. Why? We can't get natural gas, so we can use it to generate electricity. What else happened? And now the price of natural gas is going up in the winter. When the price of winter was too high, they also allowed LNG imports into the private sector. This time, they brought in three companies from the private sector, three times the price, four times the price, and they started banging the LNG on Turkey. So, what happened? Three companies became rich. Why did it happen? It happened because we couldn't build storage facilities under the Salt Lake, and we couldn't distribute them to the cities. This distribution -- one and a half minutes left in those distribution companies, so, in the distribution tenders -- for example, they're doing distribution tenders with one, not in the delivery line, but in the Lapeli, Adapazari, they're also putting in the transmission line. When you say the transmission line, billions of cubic meters pass through the power plant, and they put it in it. Dear friends, look, we have two basic problems. First of all, these corruptions are polluting us, and then we're contaminated by not being able to act because of these corruptions. What happens after all? Electricity and gas prices are rising throughout the country. What happens when electricity and natural gas rise not only to consumers, but also to manufacturers? Our manufacturer can't compete with any rivals, Chinese rivals, Bulgarian rivals, African rivals, our inputs are increasing. So, what do you think of this situation? If we can discuss the infrastructure of these laws together, democratically, if we can put our problems to heart, we can act in the best interest of the country. Today it's ten thousand dollars worth of income in this country. In fact, he crawls at $10,000 and doesn't fall per person. You've set up a system that takes 90 percent of the wealth, 99% of the population crawls. You can't carry any more like this, you can't take this country like this, especially with these laws... these laws will go down in history. The day after tomorrow -- look, when you first arrived -- you set up investigation commissions -- that will be discussed. I ask you and advise you to withdraw this law. Don't tire this country out in the middle of the night, it'll be a terrible waste of resources. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0276par0275	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0277par0276	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0276par0277	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0277par0278	Mr. Aykut made a claim that bureaucrats took bribes. Now, the bureaucrats took bribes. Aykut Bey has a duty now. Legally subjugated, he needs to explain this whole bribery thing, and we're expecting him to do it.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0276par0279	Yes, thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0278par0280	Mr. President, he was a bureaucrat himself.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0279par0281	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0276par0282	Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0279par0283	Sir, there's a taunt in that sense, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0276par0284	Here you are, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0279par0287	Mr. Naci must learn that I am of bureaucratic origin and that I say nothing without documents. The year 2005, the Blue Stream file was uncovered by Hanefi Avcı, a gang of bribes. This gang of bribes was a corruption ring based mainly on tenders in the Energy Ministry, and a lawsuit was filed against this corruption ring, and the case was decided. These shameful crimes at the hotel I was just talking about, bribes being paid, dating fees being paid, they've all been tried, Ankara 7. And 11. He went to the Supreme Court and was approved by the Supreme Court. Besides, there are businessmen very close to your party, and that's why we can't take in a lot of transmission lines right now, our compressor stations aren't working. If I'm talking about corruption, I promise you, I won't tell you any corruption until I've seen it, seen its documents, made sure of it.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0280par0288	Explain the names.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0279par0289	If I'm a human being -- and I make a mistake -- God hasn't let me down so far -- I know how to come here and apologize. It's not about humiliating people. My problem is that I'm going to inform you about these issues, and I'm going to try to get you all together, partner -- at least act quietly among yourselves -- to stop them from happening.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0280par0290	Name, name.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0279par0291	I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0281par0293	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0282par0294	Mr. President, I want to thank Aykut Bey very much. Once, it stopped everyone from being blamed. Second, in 2005, at a time when the EC PARTY was in power, whoever committed corruption -- including those close to the AK PARTY -- praised a power that went on to them. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0281par0296	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0283par0297	Mr. President, I'm so sorry. Hanefi Avcı, who conducted this investigation, was later put in prison for five years with the slander of Ergenekon. It's not true what they say. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0284par0301	That's another case.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0285par0302	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. It's clear, Mr. Erdoğdu has made a claim about some bureaucrats who were involved in a crime by acting on the information written in a book, or there's no way to accuse the whole bureaucracy or Energy and Resources bureaucracy.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0286par0304	The final court order, sir, has been finalized by the Supreme Court for bribery.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0285par0305	Yes, he's talking about something concrete, Mr. Erdoğdu. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 9 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 10: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second sentence of the paragraph, which is envisioned to be added with Article 10 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws, we propose and add the statement prepared after the declaration of the paragraph. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Oktay Vural Kadir Koçdemir Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to introduce and propose the addition of the declaration of the Power Market Act 312, which will be prepared within the next six months by Kurul following the 10th article of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Kemal Zeybek Cetin Arik Didem Engin Özkan Yım Erkan Aydın Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Ömer Fethi Gürer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second paragraph of Article 10 of Law Proposal 312, which is currently in session, we simply propose and propose that the declaration be removed from the text of the substance. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Alican Önlü Now, I'm going to take the motion that I've read, and I'm going to file the most contrary motion to the matter. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0287par0338	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0285par0339	İdris Baluken, Diyarbakır MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0288par0342	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. We would expect you to at least consider a situation in which the contributions to the TRT have been paid during these discussions regarding such a problematic proposal. In particular, there were law proposals presented by two opposition parties during the Commission, but we understand that in the Commission's process, you didn't consider them at all. Look, as a HDP citizen, I don't want any contribution from my own taxes to the organization of the AKP, let alone the MP's identity. Because TRT is an institution that normally needs to be neutral, independent, public broadcasting, but we're talking about an institution that has no neutrality, no independence, no public broadcasting. Under the complete control of the AKP (AKP), you can finance an institution that operates under the instructions of the AKP (AKP), by financing it through that pool, which you have created as part of the pool media, which is your natural right, but as long as it carries the public broadcasting label, we have to ask you to account for it. Look, there's a special discrimination app for our party about the guests he's personally invited to live broadcasts on the news. However, there are two other opposition parties that are discriminated against, but when it comes to HDP, TRT resets its right to benefit from that publication. One day I told my friends: "Bring me the data of that day by accident, and send it to me. If you wish, you can do this study for every day. Let me just read to you the live time of the parliamentary group meetings dated February 16, 2016: TRT broadcasts AKP's group meeting live for fifty-eight minutes and fifty-two seconds at the group meetings held in parliament, giving the CHP's group meeting nineteen minutes and fifty-two seconds, giving the group meeting ten minutes and fifty-two seconds, as you can imagine, has not made any broadcast in the group meeting of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) -- zero seconds. Again, in the evening's main news bulletins, not a single sentence was mentioned in HDP's group meeting as they reported the group meetings of every three political parties -- naturally four or five times more than AKP. So whatever day and week you adapt them, you get the same result. Look, I'll give you a month, a few digits about the election process from October 1st to October 30th. Within a month, 37 guests were invited from the AKP (AKP) about the promotion of political parties or the programmes that TRT had given the opportunity to introduce it. These 37 guests spoke for 25 hours, five hundred and one minute. There's a principle of equality about this. In that time, there were no zero guests, zero minutes to the CHP, zero guests to the CHP, zero guests to the HDP, and zero minutes to the CHP, and nowhere to be separated. Again, from October 1st to October 31st, live broadcasts include talks from the heads of political parties. Mr. Davutoglu spoke for two thousand four hundred and ninety minutes in a month, Mr. Kilicdaroğlu had three hundred and eighty-one minutes, Mr. Bahçeli 70 minutes, and Mr. Demirtaş -- bless him -- has been on TRT for 18 minutes and 18 minutes in a month. So basically, an institution that has completely become your backyard has nothing to do with public broadcasting, which has been broadcast entirely in line with your policies. If that's the case, then at least close the process of contributing to all of our taxes in the proposals or motions given to this arrangement -- because it is forbidden, we forbid it, I forbid it, as a HDP member -- to join the pool where your own pool media is fed. When you're funded from there, you can talk all you want, and we won't come in here and complain, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0289par0352	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to introduce and propose the addition of the declaration of the Power Market Act 312, which will be prepared within the next six months by Kurul following the 10th article of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Kazim lion and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0290par0361	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0289par0362	It's Kazim Arlen, Denizli MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0291par0365	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers to change the Law on Electric Market Number 312 and the amendment on Article 10 of the Law Proposal on Some Laws. I salute you all with love and respect. They have brought forward a new arrangement that will facilitate the work of distribution companies and ease their loads, with the 10th article -- the law that is required to be reorganised. An addition is required to make it possible for those who have a distribution license that provides certain conditions to participate in only one of their own corporate activities, if they are eligible by the Council, considering technical and economic grounds. (It is called by the Council to determine the conditions and the procedures for the application of the authority.) Since distribution of the distribution companies is not provided by the Privatisation Administration, there is no special agreement, and there is no disclosure on how the missing fugitive, the collection, the investment spending will be, and it is not connected to the contract, the entire load is requested to be billed on the consumer today. That's what it's all about, guys. The distribution companies were not given any responsibility by the missing fugitive. Again, despite the profits of distribution companies, there has been no burden or responsibility for their spending on investments, as well as their spending for consumers. These changes in the Electric Market Law, when we really consider them in general, are of close interest to 36 million of our subscribers, and are of interest to all of us. So, the fact that the market was left to them without any burdens, without any responsibility to the distribution companies... and then when these difficulties arise, the government doesn't invest and the distribution company doesn't invest. If he needs investment, he wants to be burdened with consumers. That's the extent of the law, my dear friends. There has been 33 billion Turkish liras of extradition related to the missing fugitive so far, and despite court decisions, a decision is emerging at a point where the money will not be extradited to the consumer. Besides, from now on, you can't object to the content of whatever substance is added to your schedule, no matter what kind of supplement is made, if there's a financial error, you just object to it. In fact, the pre-judgment is completely closed against consumers. If this proposal becomes legal, look at the content of the schedule. In addition to the schedule given to the consumer, we can also see that the amount of service is twice the amount of bills, as well as the price of use of the system, the price of distribution, the energy fund, the consumption tax, VAT. I would like to point out that there is a law order that brings burden to consumers. In fact, the goal of privatisation is to obtain both cheap energy and to offer cheap energy to consumers, but unfortunately, it's not happening today, it's coming more and more heavily. I'm finishing up, thank you all, thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0292par0373	Thank you, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0293par0376	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0292par0377	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request. I'll do the roll call first. Mr. Gök, Mr. Bayır, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Bakır, Mr. Kırçı, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Engin, Mr. Torun, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Bayktutan, Mr. Emir, Mr. Yeşil, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Aririk. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second sentence of the paragraph, which is envisioned to be added with Article 10 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws, we propose and add the statement prepared after the declaration of the paragraph. Kamil Aydın (Erzurum) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISSION Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0294par0393	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0292par0394	I'd like to take the commission's discretion and talk to you about the government's motion...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0295par0395	Motive...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0292par0396	I'm reading the reason: With this arrangement, the matter has been made more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the accepted motion: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 10 has been accepted. There are four proposals on the 11th article, three of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in the framework Article 11 of Law Proposal 312 that is being discussed in the following way. Mehmet Mush Osman Your love Look Ramazan Can "MEDDE 1 - 4/1/2002. The first joke (O) of Article 3 of Public Contraction Law 4734 has been changed in the following way. "Acquisitions of energy, fuel, goods, service and advice from other public institutions or institutions related to the activities of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, and large repairs by TETAS for supplying electricity energy," he said. Now that I have three proposals that I'm going to read, I'm going to process them together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to those who have motions, or I'm going to have them read their reasons. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of Law Proposal 312 be removed from the proposal text. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmoud Celadet Güdalı Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Kemal Zeybek Didem Engin Özkan Yılım Çetin Arik Ömer Fethi Gürer Erkan Aydın Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Erkan Haberal Kadir Koçdemir Deniz Depboylu Desire Virtue Does the Commission agree with the three motions of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0296par0435	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0292par0436	I'll make a promise to the lawmakers who want a word on the motions. Kadir Koçdemir, Mr. Bursa MP. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0297par0440	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. Goethe has a beautiful saying: "The eye sees but sees only what it knows. " In fact, in these days it will be only plants or grasses that will pass by a land that has never been familiar with soil, flowers, insects, when traveling. That person will not see the dew, the ferret, the nectar, the weeping bride, the anemone, the arab grass, the violet, the daisy, the rabbit's heel, many flowers. The great name of German literature was unfortunately confirmed once again by the German Parliament in a negative way yesterday. The German Parliament has taken a step in the events, particularly in Russia, which have lasted hundreds of years for foreign forces with our Armenian citizens, why they found themselves best able to live together, why they waited a hundred years for slander that was incompatible with historical facts, and why they left many more questions aside to harm the purpose they claimed to do. On this occasion, I hereby condemn this decision. In the same way, I'd like to remind you that we all have the responsibility of missing or false information here, especially the government. Yes, the eye sees, but only what it knows. This sentence also applies in terms of AKP power. I'd like to point out a common situation in the legislation that comes here, and the clause that I've been promised confirms it. We have a law called the Public Contraction Act. The purpose of this law is to determine the procedures and foundations for the tenders of public institutions and organizations using public resources. There have been exceptions in Article 3 of the Law. But this stuff has grown so much, it's like it's become a separate law. 12 of them were added after 2004, and they amounted to 20. In this case, other than banning penalties and tenders, public enterprises are not subject to public tender law while using public resources. In 2009, the Acquisitions of energy and fuel from other public institutions and companies, which operate in the field of electricity production, transmission, trade and distribution, were excluded from the scope of the Public Relation Act, except for the provision of penalties and tenders. The offer today includes the purchases of electricity energy intended for supply by TETAS. It is possible to defend the previous article, the public institution and the institution. But how do we explain today's matter? Why is public resources, public power, and the recruitment and activities of a unit that makes decisions that affect the public, all of us, put into exceptions? Isn't it the state of democracy where people who are affected by decisions have influence in decisions? And isn't the first way to influence that legislature's laws? Why do we make exceptions to certain purchases from the laws we've passed here? This has nothing to do with democracy. Returning to Goethe, the eye sees that it knows because the control and sensor mechanisms of the country have been paralyzed, the brakes and stabilizer systems have been disabled. Every place he looks, he sees separation, favor and order, and every law he makes, he finds ways to enrich and enrich, and that's what this law serves. I look closely at this clause and hope that it will be removed from the text of the law according to our motion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0298par0447	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. Tacettin Bayır, MP of İzmir, has asked for a statement about the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Ridge.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0299par0451	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are tired at 10:00 a.m., we're all tired. I don't know about you when we leave tonight at the end of this fatigue, but I know I won't sleep well. I think this day will go down in history as a black day when decisions will be made that will increase one more time in the troubled days of our citizens. It will take place in history as a day in which an unjust practice will be protected along with the law, imposed upon our workers, our peasants, our pensioners, our businessmen who value adding to production. This is the day when you will say, "Stop wronging,' so that you will not forget the people's people's people. Now you can say: "What is so important, what is this man talking about? " Of course, the injustices brought into this bill will be reflected in the public. Mr. AKP MPs, everywhere, you've always spoken with all your staff, we're with the oppressed and we'll continue to be with you. We've been hearing you all the time, and I want to remind you this evening. What, though, does the word "masculum" mean? One of the meanings of the word "Maslum" is that of the Turkish Language Foundation, which has been wronged, silent, docile, and bowing down. So, from your party managers to your Reisicumhur, the word "mazlum" is not coming out of your mouth, but when it comes to theory, you take the opposite approach. You make it clear to this Parliament that the word "madlum" means nothing to you but to you, "vote hunting." In the conclusion chapter of the AK PARTY program, I read exactly: "Live man so that the government can live. In his philosophy, our party -- you say -- has put it at the heart of all its policies. With this practice, you cause our people to become poor, the individual to become poor, the individual to breathe freely in our country. See, in the same chapter you say that protecting the right weak against the unjust is one of our inextricable principles. And in practice? For this reason, our program aims to ensure peace and happiness for all, not for some part or for others. That's what he calls it. Is this your idea of protecting right weak against wrongful powers, my friends? Is this your idea of politics? Take your hand out of the citizen's pocket. Let us not be the victims of AKP's inept policies who pay regular bills, who are in love with their country, who are in love with production. Stop removing the lost illegal cost and other pencils from our workers, our pensioners, our businessmen, all our citizens who contributed to our country, and do not wrong them. Do not put our people in even more economic straits and leave the word "justice" as a term in the dictionary alone. In this article, I think that many AKP MPs should say no. Because we are with the poor in your secondary channels. Why are we paying you this missing fugitive in your constituencies the day after tomorrow? Why, when you say yes to this bill, you will be asked as we were asked. You have to keep your head up so you have a face to look at the citizen. Let's all come to a situation where there's no law, no law, no justice. Let's call it "stop." Our MPs, all of us, let's call this bill no. As the deputy of the nation, let us not allow this bill that our nation will never allow. By not forgetting that you are the eyes, ears, and voices of the voters, let us say no. Let's listen to our conscience, our people's voice, not the party that brings the bill, let's set an example for our country. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0300par0458	Thank you, Mr. Ridge. Erol Dora, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0301par0462	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the motion on Article 11 of the Law Proposal to Change Power Market Law 312. I salute the General Assembly. In Turkey, energy costs are a very high expense pen in both households and businesses. The price of energy, which is already expensive, and the price of missing fugitives, the price of reading counters, the price of retail service sales, the cost of delivery, the price of opening and closing, is much higher with additional fees added under the name of delay. In this bill submitted by the AKP's Government to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the missing and illegal costs collected from electricity users will be reassessed into the bills due to lawsuits that have been filed so far, and will be collected from all subscribers. In this way, the missing and escaped citizens, although they have no responsibilities, will also repay the sums obtained as reciprocals. Dear lawmakers, it is also ironically accepted that some 33 billion euros were illegally collected from our citizens between 2006 and 2014 under the name of the missing and illegal price. For the first time, the offer is described as missing and illegal electricity under the name of the missing person who is not technical or technical. Pencils for distribution and retail sales services, again, are being legalised. These regulations clearly confirm that there have been illegal collections from consumers without legal basis so far. The general reason for the proposal is to admit that the liberalisation and privatisation processes have created new costs against electricity users. The collection of lost and illegal costs is not only legalized, but also allowed to increase the loss and illegal costs collected in the bills, in an arbitrary manner, due to changes to target loss and fugitive rates by the Energy Market Control Agency. In response to the proposal, costs for non-technical losses are included in distribution tariffs and are reflected in consumers, as well as in the record of failing to exceed the target rates set by Kurul. The procedure and the basis for the cost of identifying and changing target rates for technical and nontechnical losses are organised by the institution's regulations on how to include the cost and reflect it to consumers." The sentence is carried out. Dear lawmakers are also required to halt cases related to missing and illegal costs collected unfairly by the proposal, and to enforce the legislation later, not during the period of the application. As a result of previous lawsuits, judicial decisions have been neutralized and the executions have been nullified, and therefore the extradition of the price is nullified. The general principles of law and this arrangement, which is not closely compatible with the rule of law, are clearly contrary to the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, Europe, which the government often refers to as propaganda, sells electricity to its citizens more than we do. Its detection does not reflect the truth. Because the difference between the income levels of citizens of EU countries and the income level of citizens of Turkey is intended to be overlooked. We all know that the minimum wage in Turkey is worth 1,300 euros, but it is still below the numbers of hunger. More than 7 million citizens of Turkey are forced to live below the poverty line. Again, 46 million of our citizens live below the poverty line in Turkey. While this is the economic picture of the public, it is unacceptable for the AKP government to burden the bill of economic crises due to the wrong domestic and foreign policies, putting additional markers on the price of electricity use on the citizens' backs. Again, I warn the government to withdraw this clearly contrary arrangement to the Constitution, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0302par0471	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the same motions to your votes:
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0303par0473	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0302par0474	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, so I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient in the vote. All those in favor of the motions... Those who don't agree... Since there's no consensus on whether or not there's enough decision-making, I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motions are not accepted. I'm having the other motion read...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0304par0481	Mr. President, sir, before we process this motion...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0302par0482	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0304par0483	Sir, now, again, there's an exception to a tender law, so it's being perforated all the time. But, especially in the exceptions mentioned here, it says: "Services and counseling." It's already in the service, given the law, that there's counseling in it, as well, in the terms of the tender law. So it's a law that's not in accordance with the law technique, it's rushed in. In addition, the reason for the law states that energy supply security and public benefit purposes... are an exception to major repairs. That's what I'm saying. It's not about big repairs and public institutions, it's about getting major repairs out, not directly. Hence, friends who have drawn up this proposal need to demonstrate whether the major repair work is the work of public enterprises among themselves, and what is the difference between service and counseling. In this regard, the motive does not explain enough. I think we need an opening. Is it the work of the public institutions that prepares the motion from the large repair work, or...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0305par0484	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0304par0485	But that doesn't include him. So what you have to do is you have to say energy, fuel, goods, services, and big repairs, and when you say repair work, you have to be able to get all the big repairs out.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0306par0486	Yes, let's ask the government.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0304par0487	So you have to complete it with ▪ and the context. In addition, there is counseling in the ministry, including counselling services when you look at the tender law.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0306par0488	If other public institutions and institutions are being intended, it should be........ and.......
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0304par0489	It's got to be....and.....
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0306par0490	But I don't know, of course, what kind of will the motion makers had.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0304par0491	That's what they said, sir. The public institution, the business between its institutions...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0306par0492	Let's ask the owners or the government.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0304par0493	They're probably going to make a request like that with a redaction.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0306par0494	If necessary...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0307par0495	We've put together a public-to-responsibility consultancy from public to public, which means that it's not covered by counseling, including consultation. I certainly understood the point that you were drawing attention to, for example, to receive restoration of HES plants or particularly rehabilitation services from another public institution, such as TEMSAN. And then we lift it up and put a comma there.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0304par0496	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0307par0497	After that, we'll call it "also" and "also" and "a" and "a" and "a" and "a" and "a" and "a"
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0304par0498	And put the...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0307par0499	By correcting it like that, we also correct it by replacing it with.... and....
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0304par0500	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0307par0501	We think it's appropriate.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0308par0502	Of course we'll ask the owners of the motion, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0309par0503	The motionholders agree.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0310par0504	In fact, there is counseling inside the service, Mr. Secretary. I mean, look at the law.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0311par0505	He first described it as separate, so we put it there, it wasn't here.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0312par0506	Who's going to make a statement on behalf of the motionholders?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0313par0507	We're on the same page.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0312par0508	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0314par0509	Mr. President, I agree with Mr. Vural's request, and with the Minister's request for correction, as a petitioner, as a signer.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0312par0510	You don't see fit, do you? Otherwise... you're the one with the motion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0314par0511	Yes, I see fit. We think it's appropriate to correct the motion like this.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit05spe0312par0513	Now, let's do this: I haven't been able to get your will, your statement. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger to get it.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0312par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 98th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 312. The commission is in place. The government is in place. On the 11th article...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0315par0006	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0312par0007	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0315par0008	Sir, there's something we've been having second thoughts about.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0312par0009	Is this about the same motion, Mr. Gök?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0315par0010	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0312par0011	I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0315par0012	Now, I'd like to ask you if it's possible that the institution that's going to take over the tender here, the institution that's going to do the repairs, is it going to do it in its own capacity, or we think it's not going to do it with another tender, is it? I mean, we interpreted that the private sector wouldn't be involved later.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0312par0013	Now, if you'd like to do this: I'll have the motion read, and there were changes that the motion holders had just requested that the motion be made, and the motion makers reflected those changes in the motion text. Now, I'm going to have the motion read, and if you feel the need to ask questions again in that frame, your question will be answered here.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0315par0014	What we want to confirm is that the public institution does not give it to the private sector on its own terms.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0316par0015	They're among themselves.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0312par0016	On the 11th article, I am rereading the motion of İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush and his friends: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in the framework Article 11 of Law Proposal 312 that is being discussed in the following way. Mehmet Mush (Istanbul) and his friends The first joke (O) of Article 3 of Public Contraction Law No. 4734, dated 11-4/1/2002, has been changed in the following way. (O) Energy and Electrical energy buys from the Ministry of Natural Resources, including energy, fuel, goods, services, counselling, and large repairs provided by TETAS for supplying of electricity energy from the Ministry of Energy, related or related institutions or institutions, or other public institutions and institutions related to their activities.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0317par0022	Mr. Secretary will make a statement to Levent Bey's question on the matter.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0312par0023	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0318par0024	When the public agency will receive an outside service at any point, it will also walk in the same way, subject to the Public Contraction Law. Mr. Aykut has already asked, let's say, if there's TMSAN... It's okay if TEMSAN does it himself. IF TEMSAN takes something from the outside, it is subject to CIC. So we're good.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0312par0025	Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, ENERGY LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISSION PRESIDENT ZIYA ALTUNYALDİ (Connia) ▪ We commend you with a positive opinion, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0319par0028	We agree.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0320par0029	Motive...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0312par0030	I'm reading the reason: The proposed provision provides exceptions to the laws of the Ministry for the purposes of energy supply security and public benefit between each other and other public institutions or institutions. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the motion adopted: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article has been accepted. There are three motions on Article 12: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 3rd amendment of Article 12 of the Law Proposal shall be changed in the form of the 3rd Amendment in accordance with Power Market Act 312. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Ömer Fethi Gürer Kemal Zeybek Didem Engin Özkan Yım Cetin Arık Erkan Aydın Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second sentence of Article 12 of Article 12 of the Law Proposal, the license of the holders of the entity of the second sentence of the second sentence of the 12th article of the meeting is revoked. • The license of the owners of the party will be revoked and will not be given a license again. We propose and propose. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmoud Celadet Bagpipe Tunceli Bitlis Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement be added within the next three months, after the statement taken in Article 12 of the Law Proposal, in accordance with Power Market Act 312. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Bakı Simsek Ruhi Ersoy Deniz Depboy Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Desire Erdem Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0321par0063	We don't agree either, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0312par0064	Anyone who wants to talk about the motion is Deniz Depboylu, Aydın MP. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0322par0067	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from my Nationalist Movement Party Group in Article 12 of the Law to Change Some Laws by Power Market Act 312. I salute you. Dear lawmakers, the concept of the non-technical regulations of the LPG, which is included in this clause of the proposal, states that the process of smelling the LPG will be used by our citizen has not been done enough. In other words, if the sale of non-LPG-smelling fuel was made, it would be offered to cancel the license if it did not perform the same procedure three times instead of the previous license cancellation. According to TÜİK data, in 2015 the number of LPG-based vehicles registered to traffic reached 4 million 226,657. This number is the number of citizens involved in the proposal. The reduction of the sentence endangers the safety of nearly 4.5 million car owners. What the government must do is prevent the odorless LPG (LPG) from entering our country, which does not fit the smell criteria. In Turkey, smell control is conducted in customs residency labs. If these labs are being controlled, we wonder how distribution companies can sell odorless LPGs. Dear Regents, I will now put aside the LPG smell that should be, and return to my constituency, Aydın. And I will tell you about the smells that shouldn't have happened. Unfortunately, Aydın met with smells he was never familiar with before the installation of these plants, the geothermal plants, which is the smell of sulfur. These plants that are supposed to have special filtration systems, they probably don't have these filters that release the steam that we think has chemical and heavy metals in them, especially after three o'clock at night. Why after three? Everyone's asleep, but some of our alert citizens aren't sleeping about what's going on in this country, so they can smell it and they can tell us. It is clear that some of the geothermal concession companies have poured the fluid from the steam condensation into the agricultural areas and into the Great Menderes River, where there is no room for debate. According to the 27th article of Water Pollution Management, published on December 31, 2004 and published in the Official Gazette 25687, which connects direct evacuation into the water environment, ▪ The method of removing this type of thermal water, which is used for various purposes such as subterranean energy production and heating, is subject to regeneration. It is said that an environmental impact assessment will not be given to businesses who do not remove it is not possible to be granted a license; it is scientifically proven that this kind of thermal water is not possible. With the release of the liquid to nature, it is available in a doctoral thesis by Mr Sunay Mountain at Adnan Menderes University, where the fig groves have caused physical and chemical changes in its territory, and at the counseling of Professor Dr Engin Ertan, I strongly suggest that you examine it. I'd like to show you one of the photos I brought back in my speech because it's relevant. Look, here's how the fluid, the fluid that needs to be reinvented underground, is released to nature, so these controls aren't being done, precious surrogates. With this scientific study, the gas released from geothermal facilities has only been studied on figs, but there are many fruits, vegetables, and no research yet. I specifically ask the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism to investigate this matter. Besides, if there's so much damage to the environment and the human being from an energy production that we can accept as clean energy, we're worried about what it's going to bring to us. Because the mistakes made starting with the installation of the plants support our concerns -- including lack of rules, lack of control, insensitivity, and, worst of all -- to ignore and favor those who are flawed -- and such as in cattle businesses. I offer all these wise men to your high council, and I leave with all due respect.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0323par0076	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second sentence of Article 12 of Article 12 of the Law Proposal, the license of the holders of the entity of the second sentence of the second sentence of the 12th article of the meeting is revoked. • The license of the owners of the party will be revoked and will not be given a license again. We propose and propose. Berdan Ozturk and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0324par0085	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0323par0086	It's Berdan Ozturk, Ağrı MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0325par0089	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment to Article 12 of the Power Market Act 312. I salute the General Assembly. Turkey's energy sector is an important subsidiary of the LPG sector. The LPG sector is an area in which over 60 distributors, over 15,000 officials, over 30,000 Tali dealerships and more than 50,000 citizens are employed. Italy has used 3.8 million tonnes a year and 3.1 million LPGs in France and 2.5 million in Spain. In our country, natural gas is used by citizens whose income levels are relatively good. In our other provinces, and also in the suburbs of the great cities, our people continue to use LPGs. Our narrow-income citizens who use the LPG pay more than three times the price for equal energy than for natural gas subscribers. The nature of the product is that it is not possible to solve the problems of the LPG sector, which employs hundreds of thousands of people in this sector, which requires continuous investment and funding to ensure full implementation of law enforcement, service quality and speed. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, when it comes to electricity, I can't pass through the electricity issues of the province of Pain, where I'm acting. In general, Ağrı has reached a high level of power shortages in our Patnos district. Each hour of the day, these blackouts did not only have a negative impact on our citizens' lives, but they also brought to the point of bankruptcy the tradesman who worked especially with electricity. Due to frequent power outages and tension fluctuations, electronic devices used in homes and workplaces have been malfunctioning and can not be used. It's not just the equipment that's broken, but the human nervous system is also failing due to these cuts. Electricity blackouts, especially during the evening hours, are continuing throughout the night and following a course that stretches down to the next day. The authorities we've been interviewing have linked the cuts to increasing season-based consumption and increasing the number of missing fugitives. The problem, however, is that seasonally, neither consumption increases nor loss of escape rate. The problem is directly related to privatisation and free market insistence, with a poor supply problem and an expensive supply of energy. The distribution companies have been granted unlimited notice cuts due to the regulations for reducing losses in the Distribution System, which has also been sued by the Chamber of Electric Engineers. The arrangement has provided a description of places that cannot be checked illegally due to security. The EPDK has been given OPEC's authority to determine which institution to be made by the concerned institution, which cannot be understood. Some institutions have been granted the status of a high-lost company. Due to all these regulations, the legal basis for regular cuts in Ağrı and districts has been established. And now, with your legal arrangements, you punish the people of Pain once again by putting the price on the people of Pain, like all of our people, for the quality of your service that you cannot offer. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0326par0099	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0327par0101	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0326par0102	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions in the vote. All those in favor of the motion... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 3rd amendment of Article 12 of the Law Proposal shall be changed in the form of the 3rd Amendment in accordance with Power Market Act 312. Senal Sarıhan (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0328par0111	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0326par0112	Asked about the motion, Senal Sarıhan, Ankara MP. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0329par0115	Dear President, my dear fellow clerks, fellow bureaucrats and fellow writers, I salute you all. Before we talk about the law we're talking about, we've got a valuable bard here today, who... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Will you please shut up!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0330par0119	Mr. President, I don't think...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0331par0120	Mr. Sarıhan, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0329par0121	I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0331par0122	Congressmans, please, sir, please let's hear from the preacher. Mr. Sarıhan, please, sir, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0332par0124	Mr. President, an MP on the stand has no right to scold other MPs like this, only you have the right to warn them.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0331par0125	Mr. Elitaş, orator...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0333par0126	I'm not.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0332par0127	No, you can't talk loud.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0333par0128	I'm not scolding; it's a mistake, I had to tell the president, but I didn't.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0332par0129	You can't talk out loud. Mr. President will issue that warning.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0334par0130	Mr. Elitaş, Mr. Sarıhan is actually giving me a reminder.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0332par0131	He didn't tell you to shut up. I think so, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0334par0132	No, no, I mean, he wanted to give me a warning to invite the General Assembly to rest.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0335par0133	Mr. President, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0336par0134	Mr. President, are you over there? He's heading this way.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0334par0135	Ladies and gentlemen, look, but I'll tell you this: it's not right for lawmakers to gather and chat somewhere while a preacher is speaking on the stand, please, friends.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0337par0136	They're discussing an important matter, no talking, talking, meeting.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0338par0137	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0334par0138	Mr. Sky, if you'd rather not continue while the speaker is on the stand, Mr. Sarihan will continue his speech.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0338par0139	Sir, these MPs aren't talking, they're laughing at each other. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0339par0140	You do the same thing, don't you?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0334par0141	Mr. Sarihan, I'm rebooting your time. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0340par0143	Dear friends, while we're talking about the law here, basically, our AKP member friends continue to stay out of the hall, making an effort to devalue the speech of the opposition here. Just because you come here like ants to vote doesn't mean you have to make a law here.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0334par0144	Mr. Sarihan, please don't be so hurtful, sir, please, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0341par0145	Jesus Christ, that's amazing!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0342par0146	Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0343par0147	Mr. President, ma'am, what day is Turkey in the Grand National Assembly?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0344par0148	Congressmans, please, sir, please...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0345par0149	What do you make it look like? Is that a thing? You take care of your own group.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0346par0150	Look at CHP.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0347par0151	Look at your number, look at our number. Which side is more?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0348par0152	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0349par0153	Your own MPs don't listen to you. Where are they? Where are they?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0350par0154	Look at your own group.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0351par0155	You don't have 20, but you don't have 20.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0352par0156	Congressmans, please... Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0353par0158	It doesn't suit you! It doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0354par0159	You can't find 20 people there.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0355par0160	You're not 21, you're 21.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0354par0161	Look, you can't find 20, 20.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0356par0162	Go on, go on.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0357par0163	Yeah, I just shut up about those words, but it doesn't mean that I'm silent, that I'm in.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0354par0164	But you don't have 20 people there, you call us absent.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0357par0165	Dear friends, before we discuss the matter we're discussing, I'd like to direct you to a large bard. I believe that the following verses of Nazim., which we came to the 53rd anniversary of his death today, and whose name is identified with the country, refer to him as Nazim. I'm the one who knocks on doors, One door at a time. I can't be seen, Invisible dead to the eye. He died in Hiroshima, It happens for about a decade. I'm a seven-year-old girl, Dead kids who don't grow up. After 1956, I'd like to remind you of a recent history, when Chernobyl landed on our beautiful Black Sea like a circle of death. The cancer of Chernobyl is still in our children today -- and I have children of the Black Sea -- that surrounds our mothers, our relatives, all of us. My friend, my doctor friend, who spoke this morning, has drawn your attention to this danger. So what we're doing here today is we're talking about a matter that is essentially based on the protection of a direct right to the environment, and before other rights that we can count, we're talking about a right to our right to live. The most important factor of what kind of environment we live in is whether we are protecting our right to live in that environment. Now let's see, the bill that we're discussing today has been re-opened in the 24th term, and it's stuck. However, not only did he remain a witch, but some of the regulations involved in this bill, such as the Supreme Court's very important decisions regarding the missing fugitive, made the Supreme Court's decisions at a point where regulations are against the law. More importantly, the Constitutional Court has ruled a violation of environmental regulations. The second article of the Constitution was mentioned in violation of Articles 2 of the Constitution and Article 56 of Articles 56 of the Constitution. Now, we're sitting here, obviously, in an argument that will violate the law and the law that exists, the laws that exist, the laws that exist, the laws that exist, and more importantly, we're in such a hurry to try to make a new arrangement between us by running through these conversations, trying to talk and correct them. By the precious father-in-law of the son-in-law, this law is in effect...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0358par0177	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0359par0178	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0360par0179	It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0359par0180	Where the hell are you? Talk about the law, what are you talking about? Say what you have to say.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0361par0181	There's the President, there's the Minister.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0359par0182	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0362par0183	It doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0363par0184	Mr. Sarihan, thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0359par0185	Is that even possible?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0364par0186	Did you leave to disturb the peace?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0365par0187	It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0366par0188	You're done?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0367par0189	You don't know what you're talking about. Oh, for God's sake! You don't know what you're talking about!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0368par0190	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0369par0191	It does not suit you, nor does it suit you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0370par0192	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0368par0193	Mr. Sarihan, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0371par0194	That's where your word ends. Get ready and get out.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0368par0195	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, my speech yesterday...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0372par0196	What the hell? He doesn't know what he's talking about.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0373par0197	Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0374par0198	It's not right for you. It's not right for you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0375par0199	Congressmans, please, sir, I have something to say.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0376par0200	Don't shout.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0377par0201	Why shouldn't we shout? We're reacting.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0375par0202	At the beginning of my speech yesterday, when I opened the merger, I said something. The ministers can, of course, criticize all MPs, all politicians, because of the practices they've done, all politicians, because of the policies they've done, but that's not true, sir, when it comes to family relations, relative relations. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0378par0205	That's it.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0379par0206	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0380par0207	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0381par0208	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0382par0209	Mr. President, he's already told us.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0383par0210	Mr. Botanci, it's okay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0384par0212	Osman, enough, it's eleven o'clock at night.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0385par0213	We're talking about it at eleven o'clock at night.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0386par0214	What's that got to do with anything? Is that how you talk at 11:00 a.m.?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0384par0215	What did he say?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0386par0216	What did he say? He yelled at her, yelled at her.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit06spe0387par0217	In accordance with the amendment to the 12th amendment, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 12th article is accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0387par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 98th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 312. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are three motions on Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and offer the need to change the term "final" of Article 3 (9) of Article 3 of the Law Against Renewable Energy Resources No. 5346, which has been replaced with Article 13/05/2005, replaced by Article 312. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Tahsin Tarhan Ahmet Akin Kemal Zeybek Cetin Arik Erkan Aydın Özkan Yımım Ömer Fethi Gürer Bkent Yener Bektasoğlu Aytuğ Shooter Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the expression "strength tires" mentioned in Article 13 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312, which is currently in session, be replaced as "used tires." Emin Haluk Ayhan Mustafa Kalaycı İsmail Faruk Aksu Baki Simsek Ruhi Ersoy Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the release of the declaration of non-importation of the 13th article of the Common Law Proposal 312 shall be changed "in addition to local and organic waste," as well as "in addition to national waste." İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0388par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0387par0035	İdris Baluken, Diyarbakır MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0389par0037	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you once again on behalf of my party. In Article 13 there is a regulation concerning the change in definition of,biocution in the Law on Electric Energy Productions of Energy Resources. I'd like to tell you more about why, within this proposal of the law, an understanding that favours private companies does not touch the citizen and why the AKP is persistently taking such a position. From time to time, friends from different political parties who spoke on this bench have made statements accusing the citizen of the missing fugitive, accusing more and more citizens, using such definitions. Look, the bottom line is that the creation of a tremendous privatisation field over this energy sector and it's completely a profit zone of the private sector, and it has enormous losses to the citizen, to the citizen. So far, we have not witnessed a single regulation of the AKP government regarding these victims. These companies that fill their pockets don't fulfill any of their own responsibilities at the point of investing in infrastructure. In order to renovate the old transplant lines, perhaps they don't meet the needs of a lot of the materials in the contract, and so, in fact, with their attitude, they reveal an understanding that is the perpetrator of the most missing fugitive. And those who don't do all that, they're creating a mass punishment mechanism all over this missing fugitive. So there's one thing that friends need to know about the missing fugitive in Diyarbakır, Urbana, Şırnak: the processes related to the collective punishment of a city are run by these companies. The person who regularly pays in Diyarbakır has to deal with the consequences of this special logic's power cuts. I'll tell you, as a friend of yours, a paralegal who's been there as a doctor, I've witnessed the survival of patients, asthma patients, silicon patients, who are stuck in a lot of my seizures because of the electricity that's been cut off. What profit logic has the right to implement such a practice on a citizen? It's an open violation of human rights. However, frequent power outages have caused white items in many homes, refrigerators, washing machines. For example, as a government, have you thought of anything to compensate or investigate for the damage caused by these blackouts, the autonomous profit logic of this private company? Well, he can't, so that can't happen, because your entire priority is limited to applications aimed at boosting the profits of these companies. Look, one of the most victims of cutbacks is farmers. Many farmers have to pull water out of the well with some special electric pump mechanisms and water its own product because there are no GAP irrigation conduits, causing a huge amount of electricity bills to collapse in the transformers that pumped them, as well as for the farmer in the region. If you're comfortable with this -- there were mass protests in Mardin, Urbana, Batman. So we're talking about a logic that brings 400 grand electricity bills to a farmer. You don't have a study of deletion, you don't have to concentrate on the immediate access to the land; you're focusing all the damage on the farmers. With your latest arrangement, you even cut the farmers' incentives to support the farmers -- the farmers who pay their electric bills regularly. So, as a whole, these private companies have brought a great deal of damage to the citizen, and unfortunately, you're not the least concerned about these victims. How can we make more profits for electricity companies that are cut off from their profits? You bring these legal arrangements with the search. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0390par0046	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the expression "strength tires" mentioned in Article 13 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312, which is currently in session, be replaced as "used tires." Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0391par0055	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0390par0056	İsmail Faruk Aksu has asked about the motion, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0392par0059	Mr. President, I have been sworn in by the National Party of Actions regarding Article 13 of Law Proposal 312. I salute you all. Turkey's energy point shows that the AKP-era energy sector has become an industry that has been brought up by wrong tax policies, smuggling and corruption, where long-term planning has not been done, self-source is not given enough importance, alternative energy resource potential cannot be motivated enough. The lack of efficient use of energy sources and the growing need for energy make our country dependent on energy. However, it is essential to have enough energy resources and to use them efficiently in order to have a say in the world, strengthen industry, and grow the economy. There is no doubt that the proper determination and implementation of energy policies will also increase the competitiveness of the country's production sectors. It is known that the cost and continuity of energy is one of the factors they consider important when choosing the investment location of many global companies around the world. However, as a result of energy policies imposed by the AKP governments, electricity energy has become completely dependent on energy, as well as has been largely provided by natural gas circuit stations in our country. This poses risks in both the expensive production of electricity and the dependence on natural gas, as well as the continuity of energy. The last Russian crisis has shown that it is a necessity of our national security to put weight on local energy sources and to diversify natural gas providers. In this framework, energy planning should be the basis for the diversity of resources and countries and strengthening supply security. About 40 per cent of electricity already used in our country is produced using natural gas, 28 per cent coal, 26 per cent hydroelectric and about 4 per cent wind energy. Looking at this table, both the environmental impact and the cost of the energy production of renewable energy sources, such as hydroelectric, wind, and sun, seem to be far less than potential. In order to ensure energy supply security in our country, energy production based on local resources such as wind, sun, geothermal is an inevitable necessity. In addition, the production, distribution and use of energy cannot be efficient. The number of casualties and fugitives in the distribution of electricity is high. Instead of taking measures to prevent missing persons and fugitives, these missing persons and fugitives are burdened with citizens who pay their electricity bills regularly. This is not a right situation. Dear lawmakers, appropriate measures must be taken to reduce the share of natural gas in the energy sector to a reasonable proportion. In this scope, a long-term energy supply-teleop projection should be made first, giving priority to domestic and renewable energy sources, not accepting new application for natural gas to produce electricity for a period of time. The number of gas storage sites, storage and daily injection capacities should be increased, creating high reserves against extraordinary situations and seasonal fluctuations. Justice and equality lie among the most fundamental principles of the law, and it is clearly against the principle of justice and equality to reflect the cost of electricity used by others without paying any price. It is unfair to reflect on our citizens the loss of the price of illegal electricity companies and the cost of reading counters that are not dependent on similar consumption. With these thoughts, I respectfully salute the High Council, saying that this bill, which has blocked the path of rights rather than to address our citizens' present victimhood, is unacceptable.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0393par0066	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and offer the need for the "final" clause (9) of Article 3 of the Law Against Renewable Energy Resources No. 5346, replaced by Article 312, which was replaced by Article 13/5/2005. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0394par0075	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0393par0076	Wants to talk about the motion, Aytuğ Ater, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0395par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we continue to fight to protect our beautiful country from the scourge of nuclear power plants. I salute the lawmakers who have not betrayed their country and humanity. The 13th article of Proposition 312 has been explained to the definition of "biocute," and there's nothing wrong with that. Every positive offer you bring about renewable energy, we'll say yes, because we know the damage to nuclear power plants. In addition to health, sea, agriculture, animalism, tourism, the nuclear plant was built on the Ecemis fault line, I remind you and refer it to your consciences. Mr. Secretary, at the time of the license, the Ecemis fault line was not yet defined, so there was no Ecemis fault line when the operation of the nuclear plant in Mersin Akkuyu was made before it began, and then it appeared, and we repeated it many times from this bench. Just as those high waves you mentioned in Fukushima were not calculated, so the Ecemish fault line was not in the account. Now you're going to tell me, sir, that we're trying to build an earthquake-proof nuclear plant the size of eight. So, you make it as tough as you want, the earthquake that we're talking about is going to cause this nuclear plant to collapse rather than rock and crash, because it's been identified as a swamp. Now, you're building a nuclear plant on the swamp and the Ecemis fault line. I pledge it to your consciences. Look, I passed on this information to you, and yet if you do, you will be complicit in this crime on purpose and purpose. There are times when we raise our hand without knowing it, but now you know. Now, to another subject, the price of nuclear energy. You know, some people just think about money, and I say to them, nuclear energy isn't cheap. Look, you're paying $12.35 per kilowatt hour for fifteen years under your promise to Russia, Mr. Secretary, you're paying $12.35 American dollars, and you're guaranteeing 15 years of purchase. But do you know how much the average sale rate in our country is in 2014? 17,19p/kilovathours. You'll sell it to citizens about three times as much. If you had gotten it from the wind, it would have cost 15 cents/kilovat hours, so it would have cost much, much less. So what do we propose, what do we propose, instead of a nuclear power plant, how do we get our energy? Look, hydropower plants are said to have a potential of 150 billion kilowatts if it's done according to procedure, if it's done in proper places instead of small streams. Wind, if the birds are not built on the migration path, it will work very well, and we use only 2 percent of the wind energy potential in Turkey. Look, the sun: God has given us such a beautiful, rich source of energy that almost nowhere else in the world. We have a total of 7.2 hours a day, 2,640 hours per square meter, and about 380 billion kilowatts per hour, Mr. Secretary, dear friends, 380 billion kilowatts per square meter. So, how much do we spend on average today? 300 billion kilowatts. I mean, if we can use the sun properly, that's it. If you add biogas, geothermal, properly burned linity, we'll figure it out. We don't need anything else, especially if we maintain energy efficiency. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0396par0089	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 13th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 14th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and provide you with respect to the need to change the terms of Article 312 of Law Proposition 14 to Article 6 of Law 46 in the joke added to Article 6 of Law. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Özkan Yım Kemal Zeybek Çetin Arık Ömer Fethi Gürer Erkan Aydın Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 312 Power Market Law shall be changed in accordance with the regulations of Article 14 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Simsek Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of Law Proposal 312 be removed from the proposal text. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmoud Jaladat Bagpipelı Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0397par0122	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0396par0123	Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0398par0126	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the amendment of Power Market Act 312. I salute the General Assembly. While we're making laws here, we're creating the legal possibilities for a return to energy companies. However, those who live in their own territory, in their own habitat, who will deal with these nuclear projects, will not be able to express themselves in any way. So, in the thousands of years of life cycles, won't the people who have created a habitat have ideas, ideas, and wills? Everyone will have the say and the authority for activities that will seriously affect the environment, but our citizens in that area will not have a single word. We said so in our election declaration. We have stated that the locals have direct words, authority and decision on the natural assets and resources of the regions, and that they should be, and that mechanisms should be created for that. The Black Sea must decide whether the Green Road, the HESS, the third bridge to İstanbul, a new airport or a throat, the Gezi Park, the Topchi Barrack, Sinop and Mersin, the nuclear power plant, the Yırca or Soma. We, therefore, will, rather than provide the need for a few energy companies, will, of course, support the energy policies of public and labor. We will fight to protect nature, water, forest, streams, mechas, beaches, agricultural areas, water ecosystems, and prevent it from being used as a profit and Rant area in the capital savings process. Look, as you know, the Ataturk Dam was built, considered a source of energy and irrigation. Because of the Ataturk Dam, a district of Adıyaman Province, Samsat Province, was flooded, and dozens of villages were wiped off the map. Today, however, agriculture is water - surrounded by water, but today agriculture is waterless in Adıyaman. He could not even implement a project that did not cost much and would include almost all of Adıyaman's plain villages in watery agriculture. If you're going to watch out for energy companies, look, this year there's a drought in Adıyaman, the farmer's a mess. Here, if your energy policies were a bit public and for work, I wouldn't say the lake of the Ataturk Dam, but you could include all of Adıyaman and the sea in the watery agriculture. However, you are already trying to implement a very serious water potential and cost-free Baby-1, Baby-2 projects, by blocking the vast range of Adıyaman (Adıyaman) in mountain villages, the fountains and teas that are the source of life, by setting up the people from their homes, from their homes, from their homes, and from the world's climate data, a costly project that can be dried up tomorrow. If the Ataturk Dam is near a sea of fresh water, when people are watering their fields with water wells, electricity, and therefore have difficulty paying off their debts, it is the shame of the energy policies you run, not the shame of those people. Why is it a shame? When you get there, your only perspective is the collector's perspective. ▪ How do we collect these electric debts? How can these electric companies do no harm, or rather how can they make more profit? You work from a point of view, such as logic. Why does this farmer owe so much money, why can't he pay his debts, and if you look at him, maybe you'll find a solution. You want domestic and national in everything, you even want domestic and national representation, at least that's how you go to the public, but these energy policies that you're implementing are not only domestic and national, but they're a classic manifestation of the idea that money, including environmental health, will destroy the health of the people in the future. I'd like to point out that meeting the entire energy deficit of this country in a separatist and insensitive way to accuse the people of stealing, as if it were creating Diyarbakır, Şanlıurfa, and territorial provinces, is disturbing both the people and all the sensitive people who live there. When we compare the amount of missing energy spent in the organised industries of major cities with the tax debt that the firms have been deleting, we can clearly tell who did the energy theft. I just asked the Minister about Genghis Holdings, and he said we're not following the Cengiz Holdings. Minister, I'm not asking the Minister of Health, I'm asking you about this Genghis Holdings because it's in your field of operations. You're talking about the people's missing money, the illegal cost, the collection of these companies. How come you don't follow a company that's got so much tax debt being wiped out, so much bidding in this market? If you'd like, I can ask you more, how many public tenders did Genghis Enterprises receive, and I can ask you about its involvement with the Mersin Nuclear Plant, which could result in an environmental disaster today? If these holdings and their partnerships are in Cerattepe, if Mersin is in Akkuyu, and there is a third airport, I suggest you follow it on behalf of this people.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0399par0137	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 312 Power Market Law shall be changed in accordance with the regulations of Article 14 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Mevlüt Karakaya (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COPIAL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISSION PRESIDENT ZIYA AlTUNYALDİ (KUNIA) Mr. President, we are not participating. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0400par0146	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0399par0147	Mevlüt Karakaya Adana MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0401par0150	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the motion on Article 14 of the Law Against the Power Market Act and on the Amendment to some Laws. I salute your high council. The main feature of AKP governments is their monitoring and implementation of anti-production policies based on domestic resources. We can see the impact of this in all the sectors and areas of the economy. Energy production is one of the obvious examples. You know, the Tenth Annual Development Plan was included in 25 priority transformation programmes. One was an energy generation program based on local resources. A detailed action plan was published.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0402par0152	And then there's the cut-off plan, the cut-off.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0401par0153	By betting on the pressure of Turkey's increasing energy imports on current transactions and energy supply security, local resources were determined to be evaluated for energy production purposes so that they could grow high and stablely, and thus reduce external dependence on energy. It's been known and repeated for years. The AKP has repeated this fact for years, but it has not been brought to a conclusion or to a solution production. Let alone find a cure, local production has been reduced from 32 per cent to 26 per cent. According to the transformation programme, the rate of 27 per cent in 2012 would be increased to 35 per cent in 2018. Though it is yesterday that is said, and it has come to pass; and it is yesterday that the new one is in yesterday, my dear, that we should say new things today. He may try to get away with it. At the point of arrival today, Turkey is the head of countries with the highest energy dependence on the outside in the world. If you look at electricity production: Yes, Turkey's electricity production has increased nearly twice as much, but if you look at the composition of electricity production resources, we can see that local coal has been replaced by a significant amount of imported coal. The share of local coal has fallen from 30 per cent to 14 per cent, and the difference is covered by imported coal. There's no significant increase in the share of hydraulic resources, our renewable energy potential, and it's far behind what we want. Our foreign resource addiction is growing in this lower sector as well. We're also having significant problems with consumption. Today, electricity distribution and consumption are divided into 21 regions, and each region is delivered to a distribution company. There are few areas in Turkey that have no power shortages. In the 21st century, there is no explanation for a world where electricity dependence is absolute in all areas of life. Today, when we look at the power outages, we see that Adana is the one who gets the most out of them, and my constituency is the one who gets the most out of them. The area where the most power outages took place in April is 86 power outages in April, which is also applied in 117 neighborhoods a day, including Balcalian Hospital, the largest hospital in the region, and also, unfortunately, our very largest university, Çukurova University, and we see that there is a planned cut-off in the average 40 regions, when we consider failures and unscheduled ones. Not just here, but in Osmaniye, Mersin, Hatay, there are the same things. With all due respect to your high council, I wish you a bright day in which there are no immediate measures and no blackouts.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0403par0159	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0404par0163	Request roll call.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0403par0164	...but there's a request for a roll call, so I'll do the roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Bayır, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Bakır, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Torun, Mr. Engin, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Yeşil, Mr. Kuğoğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Atici, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Arik, Mr. Toğul. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and provide you with respect to the need to change the terms of Article 312 of Law Proposition 14 to Article 6 of Law 46 in the joke added to Article 6 of Law. Tacettin Bayır (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISSION PRESIDENT ZIYA ALTUNYALDİ (Connya) We commend you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0405par0181	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0403par0182	Tacettin Bayır, Izmir MP who has asked about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ridge.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0406par0185	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, we'd like to thank Mr. Secretary and his friends for their appreciation. I was hoping maybe we could enjoy making something in common later. We've done similar work on the commission. We all want to do something for this country. Now, I'd like to point out one thing. When the nuclear power plant arrives, it will reduce the dependency of the outside. It is called. I've said it before, that's not true, because the Russians who brought the nuclear plant, they're the ones who will build it, they're the ones who will give the raw material. The Russian energy control over Turkey is up to 70 percent, my friends. You're dependent on Russia in natural gas, you'll be dependent on Russia in nuclear. Yes, as a country, as a citizen living in Turkey, we may have a little bit of nuclear energy, but just because we have a little bit of air, we're going to be completely dependent on the outside. But I'd like to give you an example of an unplanned investment, again, from two of your good practices that started with good intentions. One of them is the nuclear plant in Akkuyu, which has been spoken about since the beginning of the year, and its cost and energy production. Another example of you, and the second, is the cost and energy produced by the solar power plant you want to build in Iconya. Look, let's compare these two investments. According to the calculations, you're costing the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant of 4,800 megawatts for about 25 billion. In addition, the cost of a solar power plant of 3,000 megawatts is approximately 6 billion at the home of your former Prime Minister Davutoglu. Look, I'll point out the numbers, guys. The power we're going to get at the nuclear plant is 4,800 megawatts, the money we're spending is $25 billion; the solar energy you're going to build in theconium is 3,000 megawatts, the money we're spending 6 billion. So, with a short calculation, you can get $4,800 megawatts of energy for $25 billion, with the same number, solar energy -- you can get 12,000 megawatts of energy -- that's three times as much. The investment you're thinking of making in Iconia is the right investment, solar energy. We'll say it's true that you did the right thing, but we have to tell you from here that you did the wrong thing. Now, the solar power plant also has three times more production, less investment, and no risk; and like nuclear, we will not be dependent on installation, production, dismantling and storage of waste, either in Konya. Most importantly, I don't even want to think personally about the damage these plants will do to nature, to ecosystems. But solar power plants don't have those risks. In addition, our country is part of a God-given geography where it can take the most advantage of the sun. From Istanbul to Europe, especially Germany, a lot of aluminum profiles have been exported for years to be used in solar plants. If you think about the sun in Germany, Turkey is very, very low. Above all, the solar power plants are both economic and risk-free, and local industry and production will contribute in a sense to the development of jobs in domestic production. Now, Mr. Secretary, can I turn this inverse sentence that you told us earlier about the nuclear power plant in your statement and tell you this: Now, for you, the renewable energy issue, you're a nonrenewable person. You'd be sensitive, wouldn't you? It was on your thesis, too. I'm sorry. So, here, look, we're saying that you're doing the right thing; the project in Iconia is the right project, my friends. That's one-quarter cost of the other project. The project in Iconium can generate four times more energy than the Akkuyu plant. Come on, let's do this all over the place. Let's make the mountains of God, the sun, the bride, all around us; let's do the GES. Let's do the industry of Turkey rise, and let's increase our exports. Let's do this.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0407par0190	No continuity, no continuity.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0408par0191	Its efficiency is low, its efficiency.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0406par0192	A friend doesn't have enough knowledge. I know him from Izmir. We worked together in the Chamber of Commerce. He didn't do enough research, he didn't study. I give you all my regards, and I bid you good evening.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0409par0194	It doesn't have continuity, it's energy without continuity.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0410par0195	Thank you, Mr. Ridge. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the motion which has just been passed: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 14th article has been accepted. Congressmans, this concludes the vote of the substances in section one. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second part includes the interim substance, which is interim with the 26th article, including the interim article, and the 15 to 29th article, including the 20th and the 20th article. Now, I will meet your demands on chapter two. First, I'll make a promise to the spokesman of the political party groups. The first speaker on the second chapter is Erkan Haberal, Ankara MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0411par0205	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party over the second chapter of the Law on Electric Marketing Law and the Amendment to Some Laws. I hereby salute the High Council and its esteemed MPs. In our country, in recent years, the AKP government has implemented...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0410par0207	Mr. Haberal, one moment, sir. Members of parliament, I sense a hum in the General Assembly that will make it difficult for the offender to rest. Please, sir, let's hear it. Rebooting your time, Mr. Haberal. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0412par0211	Due to the wrong energy policies imposed by AKP governments in our country in recent years, unfortunately, energy dependency has become increasingly high; production's consumption rate has dropped, high lost fugitive rates have not been drawn to acceptable limits. The missing amount of electricity is the difference between the electricity that distribution companies buy and sell. In 2012, electricity distribution companies operating under the public roof were privatised to provide cheaper electricity, loss and reduction of fugitives. Electricity is missing and illegal targets are set by the Energy Market Editorial Agency before privatisation. The distributors who won the tender knew that if they caught their missing fugitive targets, they would profit, and if they failed to achieve the goal, they would lose. With the privatisation of electricity distribution, the higher control of electricity used in industry and housing has been aimed at attracting our missing fugitive rate to 6 per cent, the average missing fugitive in European Union countries; it has been intended to provide cheaper, non-interruption and quality electricity. However, with the government's wrong energy policies, the targets have not been met again, the electricity has not been reduced, and the power cuts have not ended in our country. The lack of energy supply security, the inability to prevent the missing fugitive, has been reflected in the bills. The citizen has been victimized due to high electricity bills, continuing to be injured. When we look at the world's missing numbers in electricity, according to International Energy Agency data, the average missing fugitive rate was 8.1 per cent worldwide; 6.2 per cent in the European Union; 7.6% in the United States; 4.6% in Japan; 4.2 per cent in Germany; 5.7% in China. Turkey currently has 14 per cent of missing fugitives. Compared to the proportions of the world, the government has failed in electricity. Despite so much time since the privatisation of electricity distribution, the missing fugitive rates have not been reduced to less than 14 per cent. The European average for missing fugitive rates is alleged to be caught in 2019. Thus, in the process, our citizen's pockets will continue to burn. In order to meet our need for clean, reliable and cheap energy needed for sustainable growth, the number of missing fugitives had to be the first to go, not the first to go. Electricity reaches consumers through many stages and activities from production to consumption. There are different costs, depending on the nature of each activity. The bill aims to reflect all costs for electricity to consumers, as well as all goods and services offered to consumers. The government has made it clear that it does not consider the minimum wager, pensioner, officer, low-income bill to save the distribution companies. As a result of the lack of necessary and adequate measures, illegal electricity has reached incredible numbers, irreparable. The use of illegal electricity has become an area of the terrorist organisation's struggle against the state in the southeast, and do not pay the citizens of the terrorist organization to the state that does not belong to us. What a pity that it is pressuring them in the form of electricity, which has been expressed by the Minister of Energy of this country. The solution process should not be damaged. There has been no necessary struggle. As a matter of fact, when we look at the missing rate of electricity distributors in 2014, the Tigris was 74.15 per cent; Vangolu was 61.2 per cent; Aras was 26.21 per cent; the Toros were 13.2 per cent; Greenery was 8.27 per cent; Aydem was 7.2 per cent; and the latest Tracia was 6.3 per cent missing. As a result, distribution companies are being protected by the AKP because of the unsubstantiated missing costs, while the citizen faces high electricity bills. As their missing fugitive rate targets rise, the expected reduction in electricity prices will be no more than a dream. Excessively high loss of electricity in the 21 electric distribution zones has caused all our citizens in our country to be billed and billed. Because of the government's national tariff, honest citizens who do not use illegal electricity are being punished. This is injustice, injustice, not acceptable practice. The first conditions set in distribution privatisations are to be implemented and to change the rules of the game after the match begins. The government couldn't stand the pressure of distribution companies. Despite numerous judicial decisions, the government has always tried to change the rules of the game, hiding the missing contraband in the bills in the distribution price. By 2015, the failure of distribution companies to meet the goals set by the EPDK (EPDK) began to affect the cash flow of direct distribution companies. Distribution companies have had to pay off the missing fugitive from their safes for every point below the target. Thus, in 2015, some distribution companies who failed to catch their missing fugitive targets applied to the EPDK for a compelling reason. The EPDK has gone to a new arrangement about some companies that are unable to achieve their lost target target. With the regulation issued at the end of 2015, the government has chosen to provide concessions for some distribution companies with a high number of missing fugitives who will increase our citizens' bills and cause even more harm. And now, with this bill, the government is looking for a way to legalise the collection of missing fugitive costs. In the meantime, our citizens have brought to justice the excessive missing fugitive cost reflected in the bills. The Supreme Court of Appeals shall not be reflected in a subscriber, but shall be paid back. However, the government is not a citizen, it is concerned with protecting and protecting distribution companies. By ignoring the Supreme Court's decision, this is the government that's trying to legalise the missing fugitive's price. This government has admitted that between 2006-2014 electricity users were collected at a total loss of $33 billion in illegal costs to explain the reason for saving companies from bankruptcy. So, the average amount of $3.7 billion per year is missing and the price of the illegal is transferred to the companies. Under the proposal of the law, distribution companies who have been forced to pay their missing fugitive costs to the citizens due to judicial decisions are saved from this great trouble. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to show you two electric bills. The amount of $28.85 was imposed on this bill, which was the price of 52 euros in consumption from March 2016. Again, the price of $48.90 was imposed on a receipt worth 88 TL of consumption from February 2016. As a result, more than 50 per cent of the consumption costs in bills are reflected in distribution costs for our citizens. Governments and distribution companies failed to fight the missing fugitive, allowed the missing fugitive to side with companies, not with rights, law, justice and citizens. This bill is the government's delay in bankruptcy for companies as a result of its wrong policies in energy, a project to save distribution companies. It is imperative to take concrete steps to ensure supply security in energy. In this regard, reducing the share of natural gas in electricity production is essential. Renewable energy strategy must be created to increase its share in energy production. Effective incentives and regulations for the diversity of resources in electricity production must be brought to life. It is evident that the proposal of the law is far from the regulations that promote electricity production and protect the rights of our citizens. I pay my respects to the High Council and you, the esteemed MPs.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0413par0223	Thank you, Mr. Haberal. On behalf of the groups, the second speaker is Mahmoud Toğrul, Gaziantep MP on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0414par0227	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, we're discussing the second chapter of a clear legal proposal. In fact, in the process, we can see how the offer is full of shortcomings, how troubled it is. At times, the group's deputy presidents are making dialogues with other group members, or they're with the minister, and they're making changes on it in a hurry. However, we had a meeting earlier to discuss many aspects of this unlawful arrangement that were contrary to the Constitution, which I had already stated -- and unfortunately, the political government brought it here in this way, either to compensate for its violations, to the Constitutional Commission, or to the subcommittee, to reassemble its shortcomings. When we looked at the proposal of the law, we had stated that it was actually very troubling at three basic points and that it was contrary to the Constitution. One of them, as I've actually mentioned in my previous talks, will be able to give a lot of land, military space, olive groves, private security areas, Mr. Secretary, with special authority, refinery and so forth, without asking anyone for nuclear purpose. We think it's extremely inconvenient. Second: We repeatedly express that it is not appropriate for such structures to be excluded from normal legislation. Look, our Mersin MP has just stated that the bottom of the nuclear plant in Akkuyu is a swamp and then a fault line has been detected there, and yet, we're going to build these buildings, these plants, but we're assigning an organization that has no area for building control; we're deploying the Turkish Atomic Energy Agency, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism's contribution will only be at the point of view, so in fact, it will be in the absence of privacy. Dear friends, the point is, it's about missing fugitives. You know, there are 21 distribution companies in Turkey, and these distribution companies are facing high losses until they get power from TETASH to consumers, and they're uploading the losses directly to consumers, so they're uploading the losses to the citizens; they're uploading them to the poor, the labourers. The percentage of these missing fugitives exceeds 50%. Now, imagine a distribution company, in a situation where the missing fugitive's rate is over 50 percent, and I'm taking it from the citizen anyway. Since he's going to say it, he's not going to be able to replace it in any form of transmission lines because he won't need it, he's taking his share out of the citizen's pocket anyway, he doesn't care about the citizen. The government and AKP's government, which should be concerned about the citizen, unfortunately, is busy saving 21 distribution companies. Now, at a point where it's not responsible for itself, how is 21 distribution companies going to replace these lines, reduce the number of missing fugitives? So, really, the possibility of further reduction of this missing fugitive ratio is just a dream. These missing contraband costs, you know, have been problematic since the EPDK law came out of this parliament in 2013, and these missing fugitive prices have been imposed on the citizens. The citizen then applied to the court or applied to the county arbitration committees. This issue has gone through various stages, has gone to the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court has set the end point; it has rejected the loss of a fugitive's price, not based on the law, but on the Constitution, and you cannot take it from a citizen. Now, what do we do? We're not making any constitutional changes, we're trying to nullify the decision by following the current decision with the law. On the basis of this decision, distribution companies have made these missing costs invisible in the bills first since January 1, 2016. Once it's cloaked... now that we've passed this law, what happens with this law? These invisible bills have been actually kept from the citizen, and it's actually been put in the way of the citizen's search for his rights. Dear friends, the missing fugitive is wanted by law this time. The missing fugitive, in the same way, will be legally guaranteed the missing price of fugitives from January 1st, while being taken through the law, will be turned into a ruling that the Supreme Court has made no decision. In addition to the lack of judgment, the legal means for the citizen to seek his rights are blocked, preventing the citizen from seeking his rights. Citizen, from now on, he will not be able to carry the details of his bill to the court, and the front is closed. However, he will be able to object to the height of the sum of the invoice, and the fact that the robbery, which is hidden in these details, has been somehow prevented from being carried to court. Dear friends, in fact, this country has suffered a great deal in the past from energy, from addiction to outside, or from addiction to large corporations. Remember, one day by large corporations, as a whole across Turkey -- if I'm not mistaken, it was January 26, 2014 or 2015 -- electricity was cut off. So big energy companies sent a message to Turkey there. The AKP has seen this message and has once again proposed who has power to serve the big companies, who has laws and regulations on behalf of whom. This law is the law to save 21 distribution companies. With this offer, these 21 companies, which are a burden on themselves, are trying to be reduced to the pockets of the rant distribution companies, which are somehow created, by not being replaced by the lines they normally need to do. In 2013 alone, $5.85 billion was raised in public as a missing fugitive. The distribution cost in 2013 is 3.5 billion, dear friends. He collected 2.35 billion TL companies from the public, and downloaded them into their own pockets. Now, the AKP government is really doing politics for the poor, for whom, and our people need to see it again. Our people will see this law once again, who is in favor of the laborer, who is in favor of the poor, and who is in favor of the farmer. He will see again who the AKP is on his side, how he is seeking to enrich the conglomerates, how he is seeking to create a profit for the conglomerates. This law -- we've been warned for several times -- will come back from the Constitutional Court in no uncertain terms. So I'm saying that we're actually wasting time here, wasting it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] At this hour of the night, I bid everyone good night, with all due respect.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0415par0243	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. The third term for the groups is for the Republican People's Party Group to be held by Denizli MP Kazim Arslan. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0416par0247	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the group on behalf of the general part of the second section of Power Market Act 312. I salute you all with love. Of course, when I give this talk, at this time of night, there is no one in the ranks of the AKP.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0417par0249	We're here. We're here.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0416par0250	Of course, I think I'll talk to the empty seats.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0417par0251	It's not empty, it's friends.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0416par0252	Yeah, I think it'd be nice if the guys were here before roll call.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0418par0253	The TV's live, you talk.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0416par0254	Right?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0419par0255	You don't see them.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0416par0256	My dear friends, when the problems and solutions of our energy are obvious, it's actually supposed to be followed by a cheaper energy, a better energy, a better energy policy that pulls costs down, but it's a law proposal, unfortunately, here, to save the day, to save distribution companies, to lay heavy costs on consumers, and thus to deal with it. Our problems are clear. As long as we can't reduce the cost of energy, as long as we can't give cheap electricity to our consumer, producer, exporter, as long as we can't give it to them, there's really going to be more loads on costs, and the industry and the producer's chances of competition will be reduced because of the costs of our low-income citizens. I see it's not here, I'm afraid. Nearly 48 percent of the electricity we pay is taxed, so it's known to everyone we've paid more than $100 for 52 lira worth of electricity. With the price of raw electricity, high taxes and additional loads, it has literally peaked in Turkey. So, first of all, I'd like to point out that by reducing taxes on the electricity we're going to give the consumer to reduce the charge, reset the VAT, remove the TRT turnout share, we're going to be able to deliver a cheaper energy to our consumer. If the energy used in production is given cheaply, our industrialist and manufacturer will have a better chance of competing with rival countries, which will be cheaper. In this way, there will be more income in the production of and exporting goods in our country. Now, we're looking at what's in the price of electricity? There's an energy fund, 1%. There's a TRT share, like I just said, 2%. There's a 5% share paid to the municipality, and there's a VAT. We also see that the energy bill, such as the price of reading, such as the money of the system, has come to us in a really large way, by adding a lot of money, such as the amount of money for distribution. Now, it's talked about from time to time, and the government says: "We produce cheap energy." However, compared to Europe, we are in six countries that produce the most expensive electricity based on the power to buy. For him, really, we can't produce energy, electricity cheaply, unfortunately. Energy is not expensive in Turkey. I want to say once again that we have to do it according to the ability to buy this account. My dear friends, it is absolutely impossible to reduce this burden and reduce the loss without making the investments necessary to reduce technical loss in distribution companies and state electricity, without implementing the necessary innovations, the change of line and the revision of the lines and using new technicalities. What was expected from electricity distribution privatisation was: let's produce more energy, produce more electricity, make it cheaper, and give it to the consumer for less. It was driven by the understanding of electricity, and they were told. Privatisation was always said to be useful, it was expressed, but at the point where we're in electricity today, we've actually come to a situation where we sit in a very expensive situation and have to use expensive electricity. The reason for this is that there are a lot of situations, technical losses at first, and I would like to say again that there is a law order trying to put this burden on the consumer, because the state has already endured a certain amount of the burden before it is calculated as it should be, and the distribution companies today do not. Thus, all the cost of missing and fugitives has been tried to be taken from the honest subscriber by the way they've been charged and tried to be taken illegally. The amount of this amount also amounted to 33 billion TL. Many cases have been filed, the courts have decided, and even those decisions are now being eliminated by this law. The pre-judgment is now completely closed, and I'm afraid the consumer no longer has the right to appeal for the price he's going to pay. My dear friends, I would also like to say here that even Mr. Davutoglu, who first came to parliament as a bill and admitted that this proposal, which was turned into an offer at the last minute, was really unfair, and that even Mr. Davutoglu, who resisted this proposal, caused his Prime Ministership to go away and resign from the presidency. My dear friends, Turkey's real resources are very, very good. By bringing forward renewable energy, I want to say that we need to encourage, support, support, and produce more electricity, to deliver solar energy, wind energy, and HESTs, to our consumer at a cheaper price. Now, when we look inside the schedule, it's put in a position where there's no way to interfere with the judiciary. If there is only a financial error, you will have the right to object to the outcome, but your right to appeal to any item concerning the content of the recipe concerning the pens will not remain with this law, I'm afraid. So I really want to make it clear to you that against consumers, in favor of distribution companies, in favor of manufacturers, this proposal for the law is contrary to the Constitution, the laws, the principle of equality, and the freedom of many rights. Of course, this law could come out of here, but I'd like to make it clear from the Supreme Court that this law will be passed. Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0420par0269	Thank you, Mr. lion. The talks on the second chapter for groups are over. Now, I'm going to make a pledge to the lawmakers who have requested a word on his behalf. First word on his behalf, Osman Boyraz, Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Boyraz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0421par0276	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my views on the Electric Market Law and the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. I hereby salute your high council. I pray that our proposal of the law is good for our country and for our nation. First of all, I'd like to thank our Department of Energy, bureaucrats, members of the Commission for contributing with all their suggestions, criticism and support. This arrangement makes arrangements in 12 laws, as you all know. I won't go into details, but many speakers have expressed them. Of course, I listened carefully during the day, especially to the conversations of our friends in the opposition. The paintings they presented and the graphics, the data, the paintings... and, frankly, I'm having a hard time putting them together. On one hand, from 2002, what's being said on the other side, I think I should talk about it briefly. In 2002, the 32,000 megawatts installed power increased to about 70,000 megawatts in 2015, up to 260 billion kilowatts per 130 billion kilowatts; in 2002, our board force, 12,000 megawatts, used renewable energy sources that were raised to 32,000 megawatts at the end of 2015. Again, our production of 34 billion kilowatts is using renewable energy sources that have grown to 82 billion kilowatts. Again, natural gas. And by natural gas, as someone who's worked for the gas company for about 15 years, especially in Istanbul, 1997, I think we've been assigned to do natural gas studies in Sultanbeyli district of Istanbul. We go there, we measure natural gas, I'm a map engineer, of course we measure it with the total station. The citizens asked what we were doing there. So we said, "We're going to bring natural gas, we're going to do a feasibility project." Of course, they chased us, saying, "Are you mocking our minds? I ran about a mile, and I escaped without being beaten. Of course, in the Istanbul district of Sultanbeyli, which was imagined to be a dream that day, even to be thought of as a dream, today natural gas went to 77 districts of Turkey, and natural gas was delivered to 350 districts. So there's graphs, there's data, there's paintings. There's a painting like this, and there's rhetoric on the other side. There's no denying the presence of the sun by closing your eyes, is there? That's the kind of painting we're looking at. Again, in particular, of course, our country serves as a bridge between its geopolitical position and its geostrategic position, its resources and opportunities, the resource countries that surround our region to change its capabilities. Thus, he carried out important projects both in the north-south and east-west direction. And you all know that, and I want to talk about what's going on, and I'm going to talk about it briefly. Of course, Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Pipeline, Iraq-Turkey Ham Petroleum Pipeline, Baku-Tiflis-Erzurum Natural Gas Pipeline, project TANAP, which is a project that all of us, citizens of the Republic of Turkey, will be proud of, I think, of today's Silk Road, through about 20 counties, 67 districts, 558 villages, through this project, is provided to transport Azer gas across our country to Europe. We all need to support these projects when such big projects are being done. We need to take our country's energy resources further. Of course, there's been a lot of talk about nuclear energy here in particular. Even though there is nuclear energy in many countries, we all have to question why it's not done in our country. Being against everything doesn't make any sense. As a poet put it, I actually edited it a little bit, it says: It was a miracle, if I had gone back 40 years, I blended with my mother and walked cattle on the mountain, We were in the middle of the bed, in the middle of the bed. We'd wake up to days without electricity. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I mean, if we go back 40 years, we probably won't want the days without electricity, right? Hence, these need to be done today. If we don't want to go back 40 years and live in the gas lamps, the demand for increasing energy has to be met. What do we say about that? The simplest definition of energy: no stopping, keep going. The stopping object doesn't generate energy, sir. Have a nice day.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0422par0290	Thank you, Mr Boyraz. The second speaker on the second chapter is İrfan Bakır, Isparta MP. Here you go, Mr. Copper.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0423par0294	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I salute you, my esteemed MPs and my dear citizens, who are watching us on their screens. I have taken a personal pledge on the second chapter of the Law Offer for Change in Some Laws and Electric Market Laws. We're faced with a law that will make it even more difficult, free of public interest, as our citizens' expectations are not met in an important legal proposal involving 79 million citizens. While we have great reservations in most of the substances, the lost and illegal costs that our citizens are most curious about and want corrected will continue to be a burden on the citizens' shoulders. The decision has opened the way for the missing and illegal costs, which were forced to be extradited by distribution companies, to be reassessed from all electricity subscribers. The missing and illegal costs collected from electricity users will be returned to the bills due to lawsuits that have been filed so far, so that our citizens will pay the bills of those who honor their duty of citizenship, pay the bills of electricity they use to the state, have no flaws or responsibilities, but will also pay the bills of those who steal and use illegal electricity. Between 2006-2014, 33 billion dollars of missing energy from our citizens were considered unlawfully paid for the loss of money to collect, the first time in the law was described as missing electricity under the name "technical and non-technical." In addition, the proposal has been intended to re-enact the costs returned so far, and in the following cases, it is intended to prevent the court from making a decision to extradite, in spite of the collection of illegal costs. So, the price to be paid to citizens who have been given the right to retrieve the missing price by the court or the consumer arbitration committee will be collected from all subscribers, not from the delivery company's vault, but from the bills. The offer was not with the citizen, but with more companies. Our people face the burden of the cost and compensation of distribution companies while waiting for the costs of production and consumption to drop. In order to reduce losses, to develop new models for the pursuit and prevention of fugitives, there have been ways of billing those costs, not taking responsibility. With the legislation of the proposal, the loss of legal interest at $33 billion will now be paid back to our citizens through the law, the way of the judiciary to which it will be set in motion, and the costs paid by our citizens so far will not be paid back. Again, the law to be passed is required to halt cases related to the wrongful collection of missing fugitive costs, and to avoid the laws and provisions to be passed later, not backtracked during the period of the implementation. The construction of production facilities with international agreements, particularly nuclear plants, is allowed to obtain production licenses without permission, approval, license, license, and such documents, and to begin construction of structures that are not related to the production facility without a license. In this case, there will be damage to nature by violating private or public property due to construction. ▪ Citizens will also be victimized by the arrangement under the name "publicisation." In the event private property is determined as a renewable energy source, there will be immediate publicisation of the areas involved. In addition, as a result of decisions made in favour of consumers, the cost of removing all the missing illegal extradition decisions that are expected to be collected is a sign of a limitation of the cost of loss and loss of technology and technicality, the cost of operating in the system, the cost of the service of cutting, the cost of reading, the cost of monitoring, the cost of the judiciary, the cost of the judiciary, the cost of investments, the price of the sale of investments, the price of the cost of the loss of resources, the price of the cost of the loss, the cost of the cost of the consumption. In addition, by offering the law, exceptional provisions for building a nuclear facility will be passed, allowing access to coasts and beaches, military land and olive groves, and it is clear what consequences that will lead to. The purpose of the laws is to respond to our citizens' expectations, to address their problems, to address their problems. Taking advantage of the public is one of our most important tasks. However, in the law proposal we discussed, public interest has been left behind, other expectations have been raised. We will always be supportive of all the necessary, positive practices for our citizens and for the benefit of our citizens. However, to support this bill is to ignore our responsibility to our citizens. We, the Republican People's Party, have never ignored the expectations of our citizens and will not. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0424par0308	Thank you, Mr. Copper. Now we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure on the second part for 15 minutes. I'll start the questions. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0425par0312	Mr. President, I'm asking the Minister: Which of the developed countries is doing it in our country, where nuclear energy comes out and tries to build this nuclear energy by suspending all legal regulations? Is there a new nuclear facility that's being built that's going into production? Two: According to the Law provisions of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources on Agency and Missions, many companies have been authorized to accept the approval and admission of electricity facilities under the Ministry's Electrical Facility Protocol and Electric Development Facility Rules. State's office is 10. His apartment has cancelled and shut it down as of 17/11/2015. So far, I'm asking how many private distribution companies and electrical facilities in the organized industrial area have been authorized by the Ministry to approve and accept projects against the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0426par0316	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0427par0317	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many regions have Turkey been divided in terms of electricity distribution? What would be the rate of illegal electricity in every region today if it was applied to the national tariff when the Energy Market Control Board made decisions related to this? Another question: There is a postponement in Article 25 of this offer until 31/12/2019, aimed at harmonising environmental legislation. Is this not protection in terms of the 56th article of our Constitution in terms of right of right of life violation, or discrimination? Likewise, again, there is no stopping and administrative fine in the production of electricity, so is there no discrimination in the 10th article of our Constitution, in terms of the principle of law in crime and punishment? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Subsequent 26...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0428par0322	Mr. Chaturoglu...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0429par0323	Thank you, Mr. President. The most risky area for all countries is energy management. Of course, every time the energy issue comes up, we also face a number of contradictions in this Parliament. We're talking about energy shortages, energy importing from the outside, and we're not comfortable with the fact that our country has demonstrated its diversity of energy. We need to follow a policy that is both renewable and directed at local resources, and we need to diversify products; hydroelectric, wind, geothermal, as well as those that believe that there must be atomic plants.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0428par0325	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0430par0326	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how much of the missing contraband costs belong to the households, how much of them belong to the industry?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0428par0328	Mr. Grandson...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0431par0329	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Labour and Social Security: nine months of employment in municipalities and in public within the framework of the Community Benefit Work Programme organised by the ISKUR are determined by the rules and list method. There have been many complaints concerning environmental cleanness, treeing, park arrangements, the employment of these workers in river reforms, particularly the demands of Republican People's Party municipalities are not being evaluated. While the number of unemployed people who benefit from unemployment insurance is extremely limited, is the cost being used to benefit from the unemployment fund of the previous year? We expect Mr. Secretary to put an end to this discrimination, the fair use of his sources. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0432par0332	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0433par0333	According to data from the Labour Health and Occupational Safety Assembly, 1,730 workers were killed in 2015, while 586 workers were killed in the first four months of 2016. In the first four months of 2016, nearly two Soma workers lost their lives in accidents, depending on their work life. In this case, the mandatory application for the equipment used in the mines, which envisioned the requirement for European integration, was transferred to 2020, allowing the mines to work with equipment that does not have an EU certificate. The implementation of ATEX, which is the directive of the European Union for equipment and protective systems used in possible explosive environments, was first adopted in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Before a year passed, the mines were given until 2020 (August 6, 2006) to meet that requirement under the decision of the Council of Ministers.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0432par0335	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0434par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in the Council of Ministers, electricity production has been reflected in the press that you have decided to establish a company in the Jersey Canal Islands, which is defined as the tax paradise of the Ash. Is that true? If so, why would the public institution avoid paying taxes? Even worse, how could you ministers and the President allow this? This company, the public company, will be established abroad and will operate in Turkey. Your decision also mentions waste management. That brings to mind the nuclear power plant negotiations. What people or countries have you promised about nuclear? How could you allow a tax evasion? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0435par0340	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0436par0341	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the chiefs are coming with an election and they're paying for electricity from their own pockets. Can't the Ministry's budget afford it? If your ministry isn't going to do it, how do you afford it? How are we going to deal with the victims of the mayors? Another issue: No one can benefit legally from his deceitful conduct. This principle is a principle that has been valid from Roman law to modern law. There will be an electrical theft and it will be charged to citizens who pay honestly, and how does that apply to that principle? Three: Our friends just told us about the missing fugitive price, but they told us about the housing and businesses -- how much is reflected in agricultural irrigation, industrial subscribers, commercial shops, bilateral industry subscribers?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0437par0345	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0438par0346	Mr. President, the construction and use of nuclear power plants have been abandoned in developed countries. If it exists today, it's built with an old technology and is expected to complete its life span. Today, it is stated that Germany provides 60 per cent of electricity production from solar energy. Nuclear power plant construction is now preferred by third world countries. We're not the Third World country, but will you continue building nuclear energy? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0437par0348	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0439par0349	I want to finish what I just said. A lot of mines that couldn't provide this equipment were closed in the past. However, some of these mines were reopened by the removal of the condition. Does this not mean that with the government's permission and approval, there is an opportunity to increase the deaths, and is a measure considered? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0437par0351	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. Now, I promise the government the answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0440par0354	Now, there was a particular question about nuclear -- Mr. I think you've taken -- during the talks: why is the sun so cheap, it's so expensive? Now, there are two important issues here. The amount of megawatts is not important, and the efficiency that that megawatt operates on the base charge is just as important. What do I mean? Do you know how efficient a nuclear power plant works in that megawatt, the same megawatt, when a solar plant works with about 18 percent efficiency? 92 percent. So the efficiency difference between the 3,000 megawatt solar plant and the 3,000 megawatt nuclear power plant is a minimum of 5. In addition, in what we call a number of loads, in what we call a twenty-four-hour period of time, does the base supply electricity for all 24 hours of the plant that you want to supply, or does it provide electricity for certain hours, or does the network provide electricity for supply security? Like what? Just like when the sun generates electricity during the day -- which you can't store -- you have to push electricity into the grid -- when it's dark, because it can't generate electricity at that time when there's no sun, because the system has intense electricity, because people burn more electricity at night -- it's not very convenient for plants to generate solar power at times, unfortunately, because they can't secure the grid at hours. So since the system's base charge is stable for 24 hours, due to the need for food, gas plants, coal plants, so, in the same way, for climate, the sun or the wind, during the evening hours of the day, after midnight, when there are too many winds, in different hours, during different hours, during the day, during the afternoons, when there are no more heat, the wind does not produce a lot of healthy and stable energy in the different time zones, just like the sun. Of course, the installed power -- it's really very important -- is methodically, in a stable way, 24 hours, 365 days... So, for him, the information that I'm saying is very important, that a nuclear power plant is consistently producing 8.500 hours of stable electricity within a calendar year. In these 92 per cent efficiency gas plants, 60 per cent come to this point in coal plants. He can find 30 percent of the wind plants. But like I said, finding 18 percent of the sun is an important point. So you're going to produce stable electrical energy for 24 hours, and you're going to have a very high efficiency rate. Of course, this diversification is important because there's something very sensitive that we need to know: this technology is developing. We're not planning on guaranteeing just a certain amount of electrical energy with the open reduction process, which we're already trying to create in order to capture this technology under the YECA, but do you know what we're thinking about by opening the way for this technology to be produced through the AR-GE and by opening the way for this investment? Just like the fact that solar plants, operating at 8, 10, 12 percent and producing electricity, are now up to 18 to 19 per cent, is an important issue that will rise to 22 per cent, 24, 25 per cent in the next six years on estimates based on developments in the world and in the region. So we say, at this exact time, at the point of efficiency of solar energy in the world, at the point of development of technology -- and this is very important -- five to six years ago, 25, 30 euros, dollars in dollars -- in a climate that is much lower and lower than half -- in a climate where the local companies are talking about it today, and in a climate where it's going to go down to a single-digit number, or even lower numbers in the next five to six years, we're trying to set this efficiency in Turkey, just as it's going to be a new investment environment of foreign, domestic production, domestic companies will be involved, not only in a domestic, but in a single-digitian car, which is actually going to be able to make its technology at a very low numbers. It's important, hopefully, that when this package passes through, it's one of the countries that has opened its path and produced more electricity, but that the renewable is one of the countries that closely follows its technology, as one of the developing countries. So, like nuclear, like coal, like gas plants, it's important that we create a portfolio that can be diversified with alternative renewable energy sources by reducing dependence on the outside. Now, you're looking at the portfolios of other energy-dependent countries around the world, like Japan, like Korea, and you're looking at the journey that all of this has done, which is a very dramatic example, which is actually useful to describe. Korea is a country that began the same journey as us in 1956-1957. In 1956-1957, we also become members of the International Energy Corporation, but you know in 1977, the Akkuyu tender is being cancelled, the second tender is cancelled in 1983, 1996, 2008, and so on, we lose sixty years on this new journey, and we get to a new spot in 1978, but Korea joins with us in 1957, and it builds its first power plant in 1977, and it builds its first plant in 1983, and it's 11 plants in 1996, and over 20 plants in 2008, and in the process after that, while we see, in technology production, we get to a new point in 1978, starting with us in 1977, starting with the first plant in 1977, and developing its native energy in 1986, and developing its native technology at an entirely 100 percent in 1986, and in 1986, in 1990, and in 1990, its native state of the country of the country, it's in 1990. Japan is like that. These technologies are very important investments and steps at this point, as energy-dependent countries such as ourselves, at the point of becoming a country that can compete both for employment and for the development of industry and for the development of industry. Japan has the same issue today. You see, there's a perfectly balanced portfolio in the electrical energy portfolio. Look, this is very important; in 20 percent, the gas looks at renewable hydro in 20 percent, 20 to 25 percent, coal in 20 percent, 25 percent in the other. So if you as a country depend on imports, and we put the fact that we import more than 90 per cent of gas and oil in Turkey here on the table in the reality department, we have to do all this in terms of these alternatives, this diversibility, in terms of investing steps to eliminate this risk, in terms of opening the way for the private sector, at the local population point, in terms of developing R&D, in terms of the development of local education, in terms of taking these technologies, and taking educations to compete with the world. I'll come to the other questions, but I think, Mr. President, you've extended them, and I'll write them down again, and I'll be on a different subject about them. But Germany generates energy from 60 percent of the sun. It's not true, the numbers that I have in mind are 6 percent. There's probably some misinformation there, Mr. Kazim, but I'll look at the point of truth and tell you more in detail. It's not 60 percent right, it's 6 percent right, not 60 percent from the sun.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0441par0360	That's a lot of new stuff.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0442par0361	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on the 15th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the word "untechnical loss" in Article 15 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312. 3/6/2016 Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Şenal Sarıhan Ünal Demirtaş Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose the removal of the non-technical statement from Article 15 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Spiritual Ersoy Bakı Simsek Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the second joke of Law Proposal 312 be changed in the following way. Technical Loss: Physical losses that cannot be billed to citizens, including transmission lines and power transfer lines in the distribution system, İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0443par0388	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0442par0389	It's Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı, Bitlis MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0444par0392	Mr. President, on behalf of my Democratic Party of Peoples and my group, I have taken a pledge on the 15th Amendment of Law Bill 312 that is being discussed. I salute you all. Now, I've done a lot of research on these electrical issues. All the doughnuts I found are here. Except for the unprofessional information that I've found to be prepared for an ordinary presentation. So here's how much we've been producing at this time, and we've increased it to this much. OK, but I'm looking for technical details, and I can't find anything. Since I have a board membership in the same board in the late 90s, I will address some issues. Of course, you'll say that the AKP was not in power then. You're right, but the system is the same system, nothing changes. Now, the information we were given at that time, around 7% of the loss rate, is an acceptable standard in the world. The losses at the time were 27 per cent in Turkey, so there were 20 per cent more, and there were 20 per cent more fugitives than the world's standards. I'll give you an analysis from a friend of mine, an electrical engineer, who we served with at the same time. They're sending our friend as an inspector to Istanbul, doing a ten-day search, 10 trillion fugitives he found in ten days with the money of that time, one trillion per day. What my friend tells me is that all of these fugitives were industrial electricity used in the industry. Now, when I see this data, I insist on it, the same fugitives are going through the same channels again. Mr. Minister says if the nuclear power plants are built, there will be 24 hours of electricity for seven days. It's a good thing, because the citizens of Mutki have a chance of getting electricity every day, seven days and four hours, let alone seven days and four hours in a mountain village. Of course, the end of the 1990s I was just telling you about was a new step towards privatisation. What was expected from privatisation was that everything would be flat, it would work better, it would work just fine. Unfortunately, this system is in complete disarray. The private sector doesn't pay a dime to the landowners where they plant their power poles. Bitlis has been postponing the payment of 100 families in Ahlat. I gave an example of mountain villages in Mutki, and the same thing is happening in Hizan. Unfortunately, our citizens receive electricity on average one day a week. Now, you've had electricity once a week, and I don't know what happens if you don't pay for it. And I'll give you some examples of the past years. Those of my age will know this very well, the Keban Dam, after the Karakaya Dam was finished, 90 percent of the energy produced was transferred west, reaching all the way to Istanbul. It's technically a loss of energy; the longer the line goes, the higher the loss, the more natural it is. This is the interconnected system. The energy was transferred this way, there's industry, there's need for energy, of course, natural. Is this system still going on the same way? If the electricity produced there is being transported west, the loss will naturally be high. Of course, there's also the 75th percent missing in Dicle Electric. So, of course -- the system -- if you produce electricity there, if you sell it on the other side -- we produced it here, as they say in the recipe. The loss between manufacturing and selling place, naturally, if you spent it in the West, you could lose 100 percent. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0445par0402	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the non-technical statement from Article 15 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312. Emin Haluk Ayhan (Marine) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0446par0411	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0445par0412	It's Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0447par0415	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion on the 15th article of Proposition 312. I hereby salute the grand jury. With the matter we're discussing, the law is added to the definitions of nontechnical and nontechnical losses and the network of distributions. In illegal use, it is included in the nontechnical and nontechnical missing definition. The main purpose of this arrangement is the legal infrastructure of having subscribers pay the price of illegal use to pay the electricity bills regularly. Now, I've looked at the reason, although the MPs have prepared this offer. The administration knows, as we say. Now, what does a normal bill or proposal do here, Mr. Secretary? The motive tells the substance, tells the reason why. The substance here explains the motive, the opposite, the substance here explains the motive. I mean, there's no such thing as a freak. In fact, after something so troubling at this time of night, I'd like to tell you about an incident that happened here: he wrote a one-line basis for a three-page clause in the Industrial Commission. And a general manager from the Justice Department represents a friend of the government, and I said, "Well, does this one clause cover a three-page clause? He said, "The longer we write it down, the more misunderstanding it gets. " I said, "E, if you hadn't written it down, it wouldn't have happened anyway." Now, that sounds like him, actually, the substance explains the motive. This is a difficult situation. What do you have to do with it? Gotta get through. What are we doing with our motion? Requesting backup. What's support? We think there's no justification for the loss of the distribution system, obviously due to unwanted losses and illegal use, and the fact that it's still a burden to consumers, that's our reason. We want this removed. What's important here is that the work is done, the work is done. And while you're being seen, you have to see when that law came out, in 2003? He's out. So this is the definition here? It's not. It's in the box." he says. But there has to be an explanation. That's our opinion. You might say it's not. We need to make that clear. Of course, we've said this before, but -- population growth, technological development, economic development, economic prosperity growth, what does it necessarily increase? It increases the use of electricity, increases demand. It's hard to keep up with the supply, but it's not in the operational state mode when you say there, there, there, there, there, Barzani, there, there, and there. What's it gonna be? You'll make your deals in serious state mode, and you'll even be open to opposition. Why should we oppose something that is right and clear? I'm telling you: 130 billion kilowatts, if you've come up to 260, we're congratulating you, and it's not easy to afford. Anyway, the problems here are because we don't know what to do in a hurry to afford it. This is what we're going to do here, and let the opposition not stop it. You're accelerating it, and when you're speeding up, it's... it's especially because the technology of plastic balls was a little bit more than that when we were kids, the ball would come down in a couple of strokes; when you hit it on the side, it would collapse, it would swell the other side, it would hit the other side, it would swell the other side, it would swell the other side. Now, that's something like that, but when you bring it in and you tell it, the opposition, after all, what's someone else going to do with these legislation if they come to power in the coming period? We'll have to find a solution, we'll find the same thing, we'll talk about the same thing. So, you have to take a good look at these. Look, a national energy policy needs to be seriously seated here. When do we do what? Look, you got a job in operational state mode with environmental countries on a lot of things. You brought the nuclear here, it's a separate issue, Russia with it, Iraq with it, other places. When you don't do serious work, it turns out to be trouble. It's impossible to say that your policies in terms of supply security are very useful for Turkey's future. I won't be long at this time of night, and I'm out of time. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0448par0426	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the word "untechnical loss" in Article 15 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312. 3/6/2016 Kazim lion and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0449par0435	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0448par0436	It's Kazim Arlen, Congressman of the Navy who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0450par0439	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment we want in Article 15 of Proposition 312. I salute you all with respect and love. This proposed description has been really busy with Turkey's agenda for over a month, and has made the consumer very uncomfortable with the producer and the people who use this energy. In fact, you have to be honest with the consumer. For him, it is the right way to make a good account of technical loss, and then put it in the schedule, and then set the price accordingly. Because the technical loss is a loss from the manufacturer to the consumer in a real sense, because of the lack of technical issues that no one wants or expects, which, of course, consumers will naturally pay for. However, when it is necessary to present the realistic price to the consumer, it is necessary for me to remove the term from the draft, which is the expression of illegal electricity, which is not technical, which is not lost. Because, if there is a fugitive, if there really is an electrical theft, if the citizen is using an unfair amount of energy, if he's not paying for it, then I want to make it very clear that it's not right to put the money that he's actually paying, that he's actually abusing, that he's stealing, that he's willing to pay for it, that he's honest, that he's not right, and that he's not fair. This will limit the authority of the court and the consumer arbitration committee for missing fugitives who will gain power from the definition of Article 15 (10) of the 21st article of the proposal we discussed. Again, within the scope of Article 26, it is also applied in the same way to find a body within the framework of the definition of 15. I want to make it clear to Derdest cases that this missing fugitive definition will be applied and that it will be appropriate to pay back what the subscribers are going to charge. Now, there's been an unfair payment from the citizen for nearly 33 billion TL. The court has decided to take it back, but neither the state nor the distribution companies intend to pay for it. In fact, there's a distribution company that's willing to go further from the past to the present to take back the investment costs they've made, and there's a ministry. Now, in the face of a situation like this, I really want to put a certain burden on the distribution companies, to make sure that this illegal use of electricity is followed well, to question them well, to use the power of the state, the ability of the state, to deal with this injustice by the hands of the state, which I would like to point out is your ministry's very important duty here. So, if there are contracts made by distribution companies as a result of these tenders, I think it's a good thing to reassess them so that they're not really burdened with improving them, that they're not unfairly paid for. At this time, I'm really waiting for a law to be passed that will prevent injustices from coming out of this House. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0451par0446	Thank you, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0452par0447	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0451par0448	Sir, you have a request for a sufficient number of decisions regarding the motion vote, correct?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0452par0449	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0451par0450	Yes, I will submit the motion to your votes. There's a demand for a decision to be made, so I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough of a decision, there is not enough, the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, there is a request for an open vote on the 15th article of the proposal. Now, I'm going to determine whether or not the lawmakers, the clients, were present in the courtroom. Mr. Oktay Vural, Izmir? Here. Mr. Levent Gök, Ankara? Here. Mr. Senal Sarıhan, Ankara? Here. Mr. Bulent Yener Bektasoglu, Giresun? Here. Mr. Seyit Grandson, the Army? Here. Mr. Ismail Faruk Aksu, Istanbul? Here. Mr. Didem Engin, Istanbul? Here. Mr Mehmet Gökdağ, Gaziantep? Here. Mr Murat Amir, Ankara? Here. Mr. Tacettin Bayır, Izmir? Here. Mr. Cetin Arik, Kayseri? Here. Mr. Necati Yilmaz, Ankara? Here. Mr. Moonslayer, Mersin? Here. Mr. Mevlüt Karakaya, Adana? Here. Mr. Bulent Kuşoglu, Ankara? Here. Mr. Aykut Erdoğdu, İstanbul? Here. Mr. Deniz Depboy, Aydın? Here. Mr. Nihat Yeşil, Ankara? Here. Mr. Irfan Copper, Isparta? Here. Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli? Here. Mr. Kamil Aydın, Erzurum? Here. Mr. Kadir Koçdemir, Bursa? Here. Mr. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu, Hatay? Here. Yeah, 20 names. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Under the decision taken, the open vote will be carried out by electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a two-minute period scheduled for a vote. Also, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote be voted by any minister in the two-minute period scheduled for the vote, which carries the color of the vote and the name and the signature of his vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The ballots and the electronic device are cross-referenced with the voting results, and I'll explain in a moment. The conclusion of the open vote of Article 15 of Law Proposal 312 is: [[X]] Thus, the 15th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 16th article, and I read the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 312 Power Market Law shall be changed in accordance with Article 16 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Simsek Ruhi Ersoy Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mevlüt Karakaya Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Power Market Act 312 shall be adopted under Article 27 of the Publicisation Act 2942, in accordance with Article 27 of the Publicisation Act, if the 13th statement of the Law Proposal is determined as a renewable energy resource for private property, which is added with Article 16 of the Law Proposal. We demand and propose that the statement be removed from the proposal text. The Moonbeater Kazım lion Tacettin Bayır İrfan Bakır Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Cetin Arik Didem Engin Kemal Zeybek Ömer Fethi Gürer Özkan Yım Erkan Aydın Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 16 of Law Proposal 312 be removed from the proposal text. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmoud Celadet Güdalı Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0453par0525	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0451par0526	It is Erol Dora, Mardin MP who wants to speak about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0454par0529	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 16th Amendment of the 312-tiered Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, the valued MPs were 10 workers due to the explosion of the coal mine in Ermenek district of Karaman Province on 22 November 2003. 19 workers were killed in the explosion of methane gas in the coal mine of the Turkish Taşkömurum institution in Kozlu district of Burslu district on 10 December 2009. 30 workers were killed in the explosion of the mines of Manirir on 23 February 2010 in Dursunbey district of Dursunbey district of Karaman province on 8 January 2013. These mining disasters, which I only counted a few of them, happened during your reigns. At least 1,470 workers lost their lives in the mines in the AKP's years, according to a report by the Labour Health and Occupational Safety Assembly. Why couldn't these deaths be prevented in 14 years? Because in your time of power, the essence of your energy policy has become market and profit-oriented. You have not fully fulfilled your duties and responsibilities as a public authority, especially in the practical audit. You've ignored the faults, flaws and shortcomings of non-company companies. You quickly carried out the legal arrangements in favor of the capital, not the worker. As you did not answer to the society of disasters, you also overwhelmed the cries of the relatives of the mine workers who lost their lives. This proposal shows that there is no change in your policies and your approach. For example, this law offers incentives to nuclear plants and coal plants, concessions, a large number of arrangements for capital. While the building law and construction control for nuclear plants is being disabled, public dams and coal plants are opening the door for the sale of extortion auctions without any value detection. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to ask the Minister: Can you guarantee that there will be no disaster in the nuclear power plants you've led as Minister of Energy? Will you be responsible for a potential disaster? I want to make it clear that we expect a full public statement from you. Just to be a stimulant, I would also like to point out that for whatever reason, you will be the primary responsibility for a potential disaster in nuclear power plants, which you plan to build by disregarding all the scientific facts and social responses that we express here as opposition. Later, they will be MPs sitting in the AKP ranks and authorising these arrangements. Dear lawmakers, as many witnesses have expressed here, Turkey uses very little of its renewable energy potential. For example, it can use 41.3 per cent of its hydroelectric potential from energy sources, 4.8 per cent of wind potential, 25.3 per cent of geothermal electricity potential, 7.9 per cent of biomass potential, and much lower in solar energy. Although renewable energy use is becoming increasingly widespread in our country, much of its energy needs are still being provided from unrenewable energy sources. To benefit more from our country's renewable energy potential, the current projects must be completed quickly and the energy transmission infrastructure in our country must be strengthened. Mr. President, valued lawmakers say the government must abandon these regulations threatening our future and launch a mobilisation for the benefit of society and nature in order to stimulate renewable energy sources, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0455par0537	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0456par0539	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0455par0540	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, and I'll call the number of decisions in the vote. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Power Market Act 312 and the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws can be rushed to publicisation under Article 27 of the Publicisation Act 2942 if the issue of private property referred to in the article 13) is determined as a edible energy resource area. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0457par0549	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0455par0550	Speaking of motion, Aytuğ Aterı, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0458par0553	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article 16 of Power Market Law 312 that we are discussing. Dear friends, they don't move to private property with a sign that you have added to this substance, and if the renewable energy is determined to be a resource, you say, "We can hurry to publicisation." Now, on the one hand, you're looking for space for renewable energy sources; keep looking; this is good, keep looking. On the other hand, you're saying: "When we find it, we'll pick it up." There's been serious problems with all the publicization you've done so far, and our government has been seriously victimized by it. So, we'd like this to be removed, and we'd like you to continue your work on renewable energy sources from here. I just told you I'd give you some numbers. Look, these numbers aren't my numbers. TEİASİŞ and TÜBİTAK are doing a joint study. These are serious institutions, although they've been degenerated, but we still have to rely partly on the information provided by technocrats and scientists. They're doing a study on 21 June 2013, and they're saying: "In 2022, how much energy is our country's need for energy?" They're getting bigger and bigger, and they're saying, "Let's take our growth rate 7.5 percent by 2022. No -- no, no, no -- and both institutions say together: our demand for electricity in 2022 is 450 billion kilowatts." So when we look at renewable energy sources, we see that all of this can be met, all of it. Now, there's been a strange discussion since then. The Minister of Energy has left, and even if the Minister of Sports is here, we have to bring him to the attention of the General Assembly. There's a serious, strange discussion here, and people say, "Sir, we understand the sun by day, but how will we maintain the system at night?" (Dear friends, these are things that people who don't really know say.) Of course, there won't be any sun at night, but we're going to continue using the same methods as we're getting energy today, right now. We're just saying that when the wind comes up, we use the wind, when the sun comes up, we use the sun in broad daylight, and at night, we're using the energy that we're using today and we're getting from fossil fuels. Until when? Until we were able to store solar energy. The technology is moving fast, we can do it very comfortably. Well, look, we can do this, Japan can't do it, and he's doomed to nuclear. They thought nuclear was a good thing. Until when? Until they get the Fukushima trouble. Look, Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan confesses five years after making a deal with us, saying: "I regret recommending Japanese nuclear technology to Erdoğan. " A Prime Minister says that, still, right now, this person is a member of parliament. It says that a country like Turkey, which is a risk of seismic and terrorism, must give up the nuclear power plant. I say this in the name of humanity. Look, my friends, Japan doesn't see us as danger, it doesn't see us as rivals, it just says: "I've been in trouble with Fukushima," millions of people were affected by it, and I suggested this to Turkey, and I regret it. For God's sake, don't. Now, if we don't give up on this, we'll really be out of our minds. It says this man: after Fukushima, my conclusion is that the safest nuclear power plant is to have no nuclear power plant. I believed that the most reliable energy policy was not to have a nuclear power plant. Smart people learn from experience. Well, you're smarter than us, learn from the experience of others, and let's work this out without nuclear. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0459par0561	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 312 Power Market Law shall be changed in accordance with Article 16 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Mevlüt Karakaya (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0460par0570	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0459par0571	Speaking of motion, Mevlüt Karakaya, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0461par0574	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the proposal for change in the energy market law and on Article 16 of the amendment in other laws. I salute your high council. Of course, today we're discussing a law proposal for the energy market. Energy is one of the basic input elements. As it has been expressed here in a timely fashion, the inefficiency is the essence of economic policies the Justice and Development Party has implemented in recent years. Today, we all know that when we look at agriculture, industry, service sectors, there are serious problems in the private sectors. In agriculture, imports were made more than ever before; we imported them to the hay; we could not find any domestic calf to slaughter at the Festival of Sacrifice; we had to import Angus. In other areas, it's not so different. But there's one area that's been built, produced, and successful here, which is very hot. In this regard, great productions have been made, especially with serious added values, value increases based on land and land. The import's the same way. Turkey must immediately implement the economic programme that produces it; it is a necessity. If we look at the conditions of the productive economic program today, we can talk about the three main elements. One is the low input cost; the other is the increase in high global competitiveness and domestic resource use. When we look at the basic input costs, there are initially complaints about energy costs. As a matter of fact, we all know that when we look at the production, the most basic, most urgent problems that need to be resolved are the height of input costs. Well, that's where the energy comes in. Work is no different, capital is the same. Today, we're talking about nominal interest down, but we're not talking about real interest. We do the comparisons with the past, with ourselves. However, when we look at the world today, when we compare it with other countries, countries that we're competing with, we see that we're paying serious real interest. We can all see that foreign investors have recently left their stock markets and entered bond markets, and real interest is very high when we compare them with other countries, and we're second in two-year bonds after Brazil, and it's not very different in ten-year bonds. The use of domestic resources to reduce energy costs -- we've just expressed -- began to drop significantly. Everyone agrees that it will contribute to lowering costs in renewable energy, but in 14 years it has been done, not a single barley-sized situation. Again, the matter of hasty publicisation is brought as an important problem by the clause I discussed with this proposal. As with TOKI apps -- let's hope -- the rushed publicization application here says it is not applied as a means to create and transfer them to the allies, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit07spe0462par0582	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 16th article is accepted. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0462par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 98th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 312. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are three proposals on the 17th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Power Market Act 312 and the removal of the statement from the text at the end of Article 17 (10) of Article 17 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0463par0008	Sir, we're withdrawing our motion, our motion in Article 17.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0464par0009	Yes, Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan did.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0462par0010	The motion has been drawn. Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 17 of Law Proposal 312 be removed from the proposal text. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı The signatures of the other motion are: The Moonbeater Kazım lion Tacettin Bayır İrfan Bakır Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Cetin Arik Didem Engin Kemal Zeybek Ömer Fethi Gürer Özkan Yım Erkan Aydın Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0465par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0462par0034	I will make a pledge to the members of parliament who have demanded a statement regarding the proposals that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Berdan Ozturk, Ağrı MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0466par0038	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment to Article 17 of the Law to Change Some Laws by the Power Market Act 312, and to the amendment to Article 17 of the Law. I salute the General Assembly. The Department of Energy's own figures show that even if the nuclear power plant is built, we'll be more dependent on fossil fuels in the coming years. With the cost of nuclear energy at stake, such an investment will certainly lead to a major opening for Turkey's energy and climate policies. There are basically two reasons for this senseless insistence: First, energy bureaucrats ignore the evolution of energy on Earth. The second is that while there are much cheaper, more reliable, and clean alternatives, we can only say that investing nuclear energy is a political choice of the AKP government. Mr. President, it makes sense that a party that talks about national will, the chest, and the sovereignty of the public will not take into account the public's demands and demands on this matter. The results of the A&G Research Corporation's public investigation have made it concrete that Turkey does not want nuclear. In the event of a referendum on nuclear power plants today, 64 per cent of the people say no to the construction of nuclear power plants. According to the research results, 86.4% of the people say they do not want to live near the nuclear plant. The ratio is 84.2% of those who say that we should not take risks to meet our energy needs, but to move towards clean resources. I'd like to share with you two key findings of the February 2012 study on the KonDA Barometer research series on the awareness and awareness of the environment. Nearly two-thirds of society oppose nuclear energy and HES (as well). If we re-referend every weekend and get the opinion of society, despite the mental and spiritual embargos of all polarization, society will still not say yes to nuclear energy. However, there are laws and directives that force Turkey, which are actually in the process of joining the European Union, to run this process more democratically. We only benefit from reminding Mr. Secretary and bureaucrats that according to the Aarhus Convention, information must be accessed, public participation and access to the judiciary. In this way, this was expressed in the Aarhus Convention. In this context, we think that civil society's more active participation in energy policies that directly affect the public should make the AKP government a priority policy. I need to remind Mr. Secretary and his bureaucrats of a very striking example of this. In 2013, the government issued a law that should not be subject to public charges, at least in the event of an accident at nuclear power plants. With the law passed, reactor producers were held responsible for the cost of accidents. General Electric announced that he would not build a power plant in India unless the law changed, and he said that we are a private company and that we cannot take any risk. As it is known in Japan, three of the six reactors have had a heart-melting accident, the Fukushima Daichi Nuclear Plant, which was the most feared type of accident, the TEPCO company has been nationalized by the Japanese government because it can't afford the costs caused by the accident, and thus the cost of nuclear cleanup, which is estimated to be 250 billion dollars, is on the back of the Japanese people. If you're so interested in nuclear energy, if you've got the guts, make a law like that so we can all appreciate how much you think of the people. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0467par0048	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. About the other proposal of the same nature, Aytüğ Atcı, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0468par0052	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article 17 of the Power Market Law Act 312 that we are discussing. Dear friends, with this arrangement, you're doing one thing. With this arrangement, you make up a cover for your past wrongdoings in Mersin Akkuyu. You know what you're doing? Look, you're giving production licenses to businesses that haven't yet acquired property or use, which have been approved, licenses, licenses, and other legislation. So, he's got nothing, he's missing everything; you're saying here's a production license, nuclear energy, and then you're saying that I'm giving you time to complete the missing. And you're not staying with that, you're saying that before you get your production license -- you're giving it away for free like that, right before that -- you're saying that the construction of structures that aren't directly related to the production facility can begin. So, what you're saying is that I'm going to tell you about something that I'm going through right now. I understand much better now, Mr. Minister of Energy and Deputy Minister Ali Reza Alaboyun why they wouldn't let me enter the Mersin Akkuyu Nuclear Plant. You're being tricky here; you're saying that the nuclear power plant's license hasn't been issued, the CED report hasn't been approved, the CED report is in the district now, but we can't stand waiting, we need the money to come in, so let's start construction there. I was once in the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant. There's no CED report yet, not even now, and I've taken pictures of all the trucks working there, all the construction vehicles, all the headlines.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0469par0055	We can't enter. You said.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0468par0056	Then I asked for permission to enter again, and neither the Minister nor the Deputy Minister, despite all my insistence and my writing, they wouldn't let me in. Now, when you bring this law, this law, this arrangement, I understand that you're malicious, your intentions are bad, because you're in there doing illegal, illegal things again. You don't have to be so wise to understand that. If you hadn't done anything illegal back there, you would have let this nation's deputy come in with permission. You didn't even answer my article. In our research, you made fun of people's minds, people's minds, and you said, "We are licensed to run a quarry in Akkuyu. What are you doing this for? Well, look, we don't like your apps, okay, but you're the government, so the whole world is watching us. We want to stop it, but the public has given you authority. But the people didn't tell you to go and bow the heads of the Turkish nation. For God's sake, you've declared a private security zone in the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant area, private security. I'm not ashamed, I run a quarry. You let the great governor of Mersin go. Now, as soon as you've done that, you bring in a clause, and you say, "Sir, construction of structures that are not directly related to the production facility can begin." Such an outrage has not yet happened in the Republic of Turkey. If you're doing a job, do it with your name!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0470par0058	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0471par0059	What a shame! Does that sound good to you? Does that sound good to you? That's rude!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0468par0060	It's a political responsibility. Building a nuclear plant is a political responsibility. Say, "We take this responsibility, we do it like lions." Why do you cheat?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0472par0061	We do it like lions, like lions. We're gonna ask you? We're doing it like lions.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0468par0062	Why do we run a quarry? Why do you give licenses and build infrastructure in the nuclear plant under the name of the stone furnace? Have you no shame, for God's sake? Don't you ever get bored lying to people?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0472par0063	We're doing it like lions.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0468par0064	You have no right to lie to so many people. Do the plant, take the responsibility, and we'll ask for the account. There's no need to stoop so low.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0472par0065	Let's go! We work like lions. You're going down!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0473par0066	President, what language is he using?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0474par0067	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0475par0069	The decision is sufficient, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0474par0070	I'll call the number of decisions, the number of decisions I need.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0476par0071	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0474par0072	Mr. Bostanci, I'll listen to you. Now I'm voting. Those who accept the motions... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motions are not accepted. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0477par0075	Mr. President, we haven't done anything to keep people's heads down. Our people don't give us the strength or support to keep their heads down. The AK PARTY has been in power for 14 years, in power because it holds people's heads high; that's one. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Second, the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant knows the world will build it. Everything goes by the rules and no doubt by virtue. It's unfortunate to bring this to an honest debate here, it's unfair, it's unjust. So, yes, he can be critical, he can speak, but it's a shame to turn this into a question of honor. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0478par0080	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0479par0081	It's not a namus job yesterday either." he said.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0480par0082	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0478par0083	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0480par0084	Mr. President has made it clear that I've been out of line.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0481par0085	That's what you did.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0478par0086	Congressmans, please, sir... Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0482par0090	Dear friends, if I were to document that you were given a license for a quarry by the governorate of Mersin to the site of Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, would you take that back?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0483par0092	You take your word back.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0482par0093	So, you're telling me that everything is in accordance with the law. Mr. Bostanci, right now the law tells you that you have a desire to build a nuclear plant here, but you have to fulfill certain legal arrangements for this desire, you have to get a CED report, you can't move your hair there without a CED report. What did you do? You said without the CED report: let's try another way, let's get a quarry license here.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0484par0094	You might need a quarry.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0482par0095	You got a quarry license and started processing there. It's a private-security area, and even as a congressman, I can't get in, it's a nuclear-stationed area, not a quarry. You made fun of people's minds, that's what I'm saying. Why don't you get up there and run a quarry? I've seen it. Hundreds of trees have been cut down. I said to the official there, "Why are these trees cut down? Why do you run a quarry?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0485par0096	I thought you couldn't get in there.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0482par0097	They told me: "We are building a fire road. One of you will explain to me the logic of building a fire road in the quarry. If you're gonna do it by the book, you're gonna have to wait for a CED report. So, I'm telling you, you're the government, you can claim such a desire; it requires a political responsibility, but it also requires a human responsibility. I'm not going to teach you your political responsibility, but I'm trying to tell you that what you're doing as a human being is wrong, that it's unhealthy. But you bring this stuff in -- you examine it, you pause it, you look -- you find a cover for all the illegalities you've done in the past. This clause has no other meaning, so it's a question of honor. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0486par0099	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0487par0100	Mr. President, look, the congressman is still bringing up the issue of honor, accusing the AK PARTY Group of dishonor.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0482par0101	No, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0487par0102	He should take it back.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0488par0103	We're doing it like lions.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0487par0104	We've been waiting for him to make this speech, but the congressman is still bringing up the issue of honor and stating that he's behind his previous words. Please, let him take it back.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0489par0105	Mr. Elitaş, now, I listened carefully to Mr. Horseman. Mr. Atici, the MP of Akkuyu Nuclear Plant (Akkuyu Nuclear Plant) is describing his observations within his own view. The AAK PARTY Group is dishonest. He did not make any accusations.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0490par0106	Never!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0487par0107	He didn't give a decent speech, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0489par0108	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0487par0109	He didn't give a decent speech. He didn't give a decent speech.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0491par0110	Yeah, he gave a dirty speech.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0489par0111	Mr. Elitaş, look, I'll make sure that all the orators don't give hurtful speeches to the other parties, to the other MPs, to the other parties, to the other parties, when I notice something like that, or the warnings...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0492par0112	We're hurt, but a lot.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0489par0113	I'll give you a warning as soon as it's inside my information. In his speech now, Mr. Horseman carefully transmitted his findings, relayed an observation.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0493par0114	Before, I mean.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0489par0115	All sentences, words, all expressions, are not statements that accuse an entire group of dishonest things.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0493par0116	Mr. President, if you look at the transcripts, it's in the speech.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0489par0117	He's presenting a mistake, sir, to the General Assembly's knowledge of a matter he misjudged, which, in his own opinion, is wrong.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0494par0118	No, sir, look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0493par0119	Mr. President, if you look at his transcripts on the motion, he's alone on the motion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0489par0120	I'll take a look at the reports, Mr. Elistash. I'll get the reports, I'll look at them, I'll evaluate them.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0495par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0489par0122	Mr. Bostanci, now, look, Mr. Elitaş has made a statement. Did you find the statement of Mr. Elitas to be insufficient, therefore?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0496par0124	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0495par0125	I have one thing to add, which is, Mr. Pitcher, of course, could be against nuclear.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0489par0126	Who is it? Is there someone out there who calls me come on?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0495par0127	Mr. President, Mr. Horseman may be against the nuclear reactor, he may be against the plant, he may be able to make his own claims about it, of course he can criticize the approach of AK PARTI, but to present these criticisms as a matter of morality, decency and humanity, is a speculative business beyond the context of the job.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0497par0128	Mr. Naci said he didn't mean anything by it.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0495par0129	Moreover, do what you do with integrity. The call - the work you are doing now - is likely to refer to another concept of chastity. That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0498par0131	Check the transcripts, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0499par0132	I'll take a look at the records. We voted the motions. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 17th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 18: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "unwanted" clause passed at the end of Article 18 of the Law Proposal (1) of the 312 Power Market Act and the amendment to some Laws shall be changed in the form of "wanted." Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Kemal Zeybek Cetin Arık Özkan Yilim Ömer Fethi Gürer Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Erkan Aydın Şenal Sarıhan ▪ To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0500par0150	We're pulling our motion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0499par0151	The motion is being withdrawn by the motion holders. Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "the measurement data cannot be sought" (b) of Article 18 of the current Law Proposal 312. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Alican Önlü Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0501par0162	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0499par0163	Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0502par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on Article 18 of Law Proposal 312. I salute the General Assembly. Again, we're looking at a law proposal that will pay off corporations, conglomerates, all the capital wants. It's the social state that's being ignored here. The most important duty of the social state, its first duty is to meet the basic needs of our citizens without charge, such as the means, water, electricity, education, health care. The government perceives these basic requirements as corruption, leading to laundering thefts, corruption. Of course, while the Electric Market Law is being discussed, we see concrete examples that privatisation is not in the interests of workers, workers. The negativity we foresee when we oppose privatisation is happening today. Let me give you a concrete example: The village of Turunç, Adıyaman, where I was born and grew up, was recently dehydrated for a week. Why? Because the transformer's electricity debt wasn't paid on time, the private company immediately cuts off the village's water. One week, the village with 5,000 populations is dehydrated. There's a risk of disease, a risk of infectious disease. The nation had to meet the need for water from the River Firat, three miles [5 km] away. With this dehydration, cleanup, like hygiene, has been invited to infectious diseases due to cleaning. If TEC had not been privatised by Turkey's Electricity Agency, the state would not have cut power, so the village would not be dehydrated. That's the truth, the social government doesn't take money from drinking water, it doesn't leave its citizens in the dark. Again, you know, Adıyaman is an agricultural province. Most of them deal with dehydrated agriculture. This year, the rains were scarce; due to the lack of rain, not enough products were available, and the quality of recolletes and products dropped, so there was a drought or something. But we are not taking advantage of the water or electricity of the Ataturk Dam, which is the size of a lake. There were some projects that we could implement at very little cost; unfortunately, they were not implemented by power. Will the government be able to pay for the loss of the people? If the autonomy we're aiming for in our party program -- the strengthening of the locals -- were our ideals -- believe me, most of these problems would have been resolved shortly.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0503par0171	You'll be fine.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0502par0173	From these, developing the model of decentralisation in accordance with the principles of democracy, developing social projects supported by stopping urban transformation policies that have victimised the population, supported social projects based on Ranta-based urban transformation policies, developing human-liveable cities with the decent transformation model, again organizing the relationship between the centre and the municipality to strengthen the management of the centre, improving local governments on the basis of social needs, ensuring the fair and effective use of local resources, combating nature, water, forest, creeks, coasts, agriculture, water ecosystems, and preventing them from using its capital as a profit and Rantial field. Again, it is the local authorities who are in charge of making decisions on health, education, environment, culture, transportation, franchise, agriculture, traffic and security services. It must be a democratic goal to eliminate central custody, ensure that the governors are elected by the maximum transfer of authority, that the locals have a say and decision on developments affecting themselves, their territory, their territory, and their resources. If we had done this, believe me, we would be working for our people today, not for the capital. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0504par0176	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "unwanted" clause passed at the end of Article 18 of the Law Proposal (1) of the 312 Power Market Act and the amendment to some Laws shall be changed in the form of "wanted." Senal Sarıhan (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0505par0185	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0504par0186	Asked about the motion, Senal Sarıhan, Ankara MP. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0506par0189	Dear President, I salute you all, dear fellow clerks, esteemed bureaucrats, lawmakers and fellow workers. Today, we're talking about a nationally qualified proposal to meet a national request. We all benefit from the fact that electricity, renewable electricity, dominates Turkey. This is something that will unite us. Maybe we can talk about the interests of different groups on other laws, but on this clause, it's possible to talk about the future of an entire Turkey on this bill. I'm thinking about what kind of work should be done by considering it. The opposition political parties and the ruling party would have to act in partnership with efficiency and public service, making individual talks on all the issues, and coming here with a text with which the agreement was essentially reached. I'm afraid we haven't been able to do that. It's a method that has existed here for a long time. I'd like to share some of my thoughts in this matter with you during the time that remains, as I've done some research on something that I'm not actually in my field. Dear friends, renewable energy, the competition of wind and solar resources, encouraged, protected, used, and applied regulations were introduced in 2013. Electric distribution, connection system use, network code, notification, import and exports and consumer services regulations were adopted in 2014. However, the number and capacity of entrepreneurs is very small because of the complexity of the legislation and the length of the bureaucratic process and it increases costs. To build photovoltaic panels of solar energy, bureaucratic procedures take at least a year, and the system costs as much as the bureaucratic process needs to be spent. This puts a large area of domestic investment and employment potential with cheap technology at a disadvantage against Europe, which will move into the unenforced system this year. Today, solar power has only reached 50 megawatts. However, Turkey has the capacity to reach a total of 200 gigawatts of energy in barren areas. At the moment, the production power, including all of Turkey's power plants, is 65 gigawatts, which is a huge potential. To act on that potential, legislation and procedure must be accelerated and merged and simplified at the same time. It seems necessary to give up nuclear energy. Germany doesn't even own half of the sun in Turkey, but its solar power is 100 times higher than Turkey's. Turkey's total power of electricity power is expressed as 73,000 megawatts. The total share of solar energy is only 0.4 percent. Germany's power in solar energy is being established at 39,000 megawatts. Now, while we're giving consumer rights, do we really need to evaluate the consumer's needs or the interests of our national interests and the interests of the public in general? During the preparation of this text, the main point of view should have been at what point of interest. But we can see... that I've just tried to express it in the part where I can't speak very easily. What did we do? We re-opened the points that both the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court had cancelled today, and soon after that we wrote a text of the law that would be returned to the Constitutional Court for violation of the Constitutional Court. It's actually making us lose time, and it keeps turning us around in our own space. As you know, both Law 6446 and Law 5346 are very new laws. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0507par0197	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 18 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 19: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 312 Power Market Law shall be changed in accordance with the regulations of Article 19 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Simsek Ruhi Ersoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the Turkish Armed Forces, the Security and Police Organization shall be changed in accordance with Article 19 of Law Proposal 312, which concerns national security. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Mahmut Toğrul Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This investment is made by relevant institutions and organisations, if the agreements are needed to invest in the 19th article of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws by Power Market Act 312, which is currently in session. This investment is made by a related distribution company in the case of investment in these facilities. We request and propose that it be changed in the form. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Kemal Zeybek Cetin Arik Didem Engin Özkan Yım Ömer Fethi Gürer Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Erkan Aydın Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0508par0229	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0507par0230	It's Cetin Arık, Kayseri MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Arik.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0509par0233	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. This is a law proposal that guarantees the interests of corporations and not our citizens, as many of the AKP Group's legislation has brought. They are not our citizens whose interests are to be protected, they are never, ever, our nation, but the power distribution companies. Once again, we are witnessing how the AKP (AKP) who printed posters for the man of the nation, who always called it "the national will" by offering this law. Dear lawmakers, for years our citizens have been charged under the name of the missing fugitive. In short, honest citizens are forced to pay the bill for the use of electricity illegally. Dear lawmakers, some of our citizens have appealed to the judge in recent years, saying that I can't get on the bus so I can give my child an allowance, they're stealing my allowance from me, they're asking me for my money stolen from me. The court has also decided to return the money taken under the name of the missing fugitive. That's what law and conscience and ethics are all about. In fact, my fellow Minister of Energy and Natural Resources at the time, Mr. Taner Yildiz, has also announced that the missing fugitive cost will be paid to distribution companies. Here are the headlines from the pool media: the company that distributes the missing fugitive's bill will be punished and the citizen will not pay the lost fugitive's price in electricity again. What changed, and why is the unjust price on the shoulders of the citizen today? It seems that law, conscience, ethical rules for the AKP, and commitments go on the shelf when it comes to allies. Dear lawmakers, above all, the application of a missing fugitive violates the principle of equality, the basic principle of our Constitution. Thus, the AKP Group, which has made it a habit of breaking the Constitution and laws, bending and bending them in its own interest, will not be able to base the legal basis no matter how much it tries to deal with this unfair practice against our citizen. With no law, this principle of our Constitution cannot be invalidated; it is not legally possible. Congressmans, this unfair and non-egalitarian practice will also dull the faith of our citizens in the state, law and justice system. This problem can be solved by developing proposals to destroy the missing fugitive in the field, not by enforcing injustice in a shortcut. So we've prepared a law proposal. The missing fugitive costs can't be generalized, so we're asking local authorities to pay the price of missing fugitives in each area. Because there are very serious differences between regions; in some areas there are about 7 per cent of missing fugitives, while in some areas there are about 80 per cent. It would have been a fairer approach, but power ignored our offer. A government that can't even collect illegal electricity money can't run this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to give you an example of your application. You go to a restaurant with your friends, the restaurant's packed. Then there's a group, and they eat and drink, and they're missing a bird's milk at their table. And then, those guys at the table, they walk away without paying the bill. And then when you ask for the check, you get an inflated account -- $105. When you object, the owner of the restaurant tells you that this is not your account, but the people at the next table ate, drank, and then left without paying the bill, so I wrote you their account. Why are you billing me for someone else's food? Don't you object, Mr. Secretary? How is your proposal of the law any different from this? See, a $52 electricity bill is coming in for $105 worth of electricity for a citizen who consumes electricity. It's 52 liras, but the invoice is 105 lira. Mr. Secretary, you're not objecting, but on behalf of the nation, I object to this injustice. Honourable MPs, this is the People's Assembly. Let's not punish honest, decent citizens with our laws here. Come on, let's all be the voices. Please, not by instruction... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Come, let's make a decision on our conscience for once. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0510par0245	Thank you, Mr. Arik. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the declaration of institutions and organisations concerned with national security in Article 19 of Law Proposal 312. Mahmoud Toğrul (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0511par0254	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0510par0255	Mahmut Toğrul, MP of Gaziantep, who has asked about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0512par0258	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, at this time of night, unfortunately, we claim to have made a law in the interest of Turkey; this is a total freak. Dear friends, there are 2,500 HES planned in Turkey by 2023. Legal regulations have been made to dominate and govern market logic in relations with nature in order to ensure short-term profits, ignoring ecological destruction and vital threats to public health created during the AKP period. The Law 4628 is seen as a turning point in Turkey's development of hydroelectric plants. As of 2003, the Agreement on Water Rights Act 4628, which was adopted under the Power Market Act, and under the following legal regulations, has been handed over to the private sector without control of the right to use of all rivers in Turkey, and the establishment of capital control over nature has been set on a legal basis. Even when all of these plants are completed and produced, they will provide only 5 percent of the energy needs in our country, and only 25 to 30 years. If we don't stop now, this natural slaughter will continue until there's not a single stream that doesn't dry with a game of death. The HESEs, imposed under the name Renewable, are the basis of a massive ecological destruction, as they are being subjected to a multidimensional intervention in nature, as they are trying to be built in an uncontrollable and unmanageable way, without a complete water policy on the basis of basin planning. With the interference of the creek bed, life in the stream and around it is severely damaged, hundreds of endemic species are disappearing, the levels of ground water and underground water are being tampered with, the surrounding trees are being cut down, the quality of the forest is lowered, and the form of erosion is changing. In summation, natural killings will be carried out by interference under the name "HES" which is considered renewable to the natural balance that has been created over a period of thousands of years. Dear lawmakers, 25 dams are on the agenda only in Dersim. None of this is actually for energy purposes. There's a concept that we've given to Turkey's literature and the world's literature, especially under the name of the security dams, which are being made into a huge dam pile. The area's culture, history, geography is also being destroyed, as all streams are destroyed, along the border and in the region. In the beginning, again, is the history of Hasankeyf. The Ilisu Dam will be destroyed by the 12,000-year-old historical Hasankeyf. Unfortunately, it is said that energy has been sacrificed, but that is not the truth. What's really going on? What really happens is that a history, a geography, a culture, more accurately, the cultures of the years, their civilisation, whatever is there, is buried deep in history. With that understanding, unfortunately, we forget the fact that we destroyed our ecosystem. We didn't surrender this universe, this universe is our children's trust, we're obliged to hand it over to them, we're obliged to leave it to them. So we have to tell this Talan to stop at once. You're looting, destroying everything, destroying history, geography, culture, whatever it is that comes your way, for a little profit, for a little bit of wealth, for a little bit of side money. The fact that you destroyed this country is also true. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0513par0266	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 312 Power Market Law shall be changed in accordance with the regulations of Article 19 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0514par0275	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0513par0276	Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu, Hatay MP who has asked about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0515par0279	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding Article 19 of the Law on Electric Marketing 312. I salute your committee. Valuable lawmakers are said to be owned by institutions and institutions that concern national security with matter, and the distribution companies in the region should demand the management, maintenance and repair of the central tension level of the institutions and institutions providing electricity power. In the need for investment in these facilities, it is said that the investment will be made by relevant institutions and organisations, and the procedures and foundations related to implementing these services will be organised by the institution. I mean, there's an advantage to distribution companies here. This proposal refers to the distribution plant, except for the connecting lines that are built to connect the internal plumbing of consumers to the distribution system. With this arrangement, the limits of the distribution system are being changed to the operating of licensed distribution companies. As you can see from the definition of the law, the structure is all of the plumbing up to the access points of the building, including the connection lines, at the distribution facility, and they have to be paid by licensed distribution companies, while a change in the concept of a connection line is being added to the law, and the cost is being cut off from being part of the distribution plant, which is on the back of the citizen, the consumer. Dear lawmakers, there are 21 power distribution companies in our country... Mr. President, if we could ask our representatives...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0516par0285	One moment, Mr. Ahrazoglu... Congressmans, please, sir, I invite you to remain calm. I know it's been a long time.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0515par0287	It's your own law. You're breaking your own law, we're waiting for opposition until now. It's about the law, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0517par0288	Where are your friends?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0516par0289	Yes, Mr. Ahrazoglu, please address the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0518par0290	It's a shame, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0519par0291	Dear lawmakers, in my speech on the first chapter, where there are 21 power distribution companies in our country, the world average is 6.4 per cent according to OECD data, and we have about 14 to 15 per cent of the world, and most of the losses are in the East and Southeast Anatolia region, where there are 3 companies. In addition, the electricity distribution company in the southern region has demanded that the price of electricity in the camps established as a result of the incidents in Syria be paid, but that those living in housing outside the camps use illegal electricity, the bills are not paid, and therefore the missing fugitive targets detected by the EPDK have been raised. Since Hatay, Kilis, Gaziantep, Osmaniye, Mersin, Adana are high in cities, these prices are demanded by the distributor company. I'd like to ask you here, Mr. Secretary, is it going to be paid to the people and the owners of Hatay and the cities I count in Hatay and the owners of the districts of Hatay of Hatay and the cities where they are being asked to pay for it, or to be paid for it by the contractor company? Dear lawmakers, the amendment to the release of the nontechnical missing persons from the 15th article has unfortunately been rejected by AKP MPs again by the AKP MPs, who have adopted the amendment motion to determine and change the target rates for non-technical losses as well as the application that legalises the removal of the missing illegal costs from the consumer and reflecting the costs to the bill.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0520par0295	I'll turn on your microphone and finish your words, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0519par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the AKP lawmakers and the government, who have blocked their ears on all our warnings to protect consumers, say they will victimize the citizen once again with this bill, I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0520par0299	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0521par0300	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0520par0301	I submit the motion to your votes: I'll call the number of decisions, the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 19th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 20th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the statement "in the neighborhood distribution zone" to come after the statement "in the distribution zone" in Article 20 of the article 20 of the Law Proposal to change some Laws under Power Market Act 312. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Mevlüt Karakaya Bakı Simsek Ruhi Ersoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we provide and absorption the requirements for the release of "except the exceptions set by the council" in the article 6 of Law Article 6446, which is brought with Article 20/1 of the Common Law Proposal 312. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ahmet Akın Kemal Zeybek Tahsin Tarhan Didem Engin Cetin Arik Özkan Yım Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Ömer Fethi Gürer Erkan Aydın Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 20 of Law Proposal 312. We propose and propose that the 20th amendment of Law Proposal 312 be changed in the following manner. "The (1) (b) joke of Article 14 of Law 20-6446 was changed in the following way and added the following joke. 'b) A production facility based on maximum 10 megawatt renewable energy sources, (6) State support is offered for energy production facilities based on renewable energy sources that are part of the first joke (b). How much will the support be, the procedure and the basis for the application conditions and the audit processes are organised by the Council," he said. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0522par0337	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0520par0338	Asked about the motion, İdris Bauken, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0523par0341	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all again. Of course, energy policies are directly related to foreign policy. The main reason for the apocalypse that is now in the Middle East is the search for global imperial forces and their regional collaborators to dominate the energy reserves of Middle East. In this sense, Turkey had an important opportunity ahead of Turkey, so Turkey could provide an effective power in the region in the Middle East, a very advantageous position on energy reserves in the region over relations with its peoples of oil, natural gas reserves, but unfortunately, the Syrian policy developed through false foreign policy, unpredictable approaches and a total anti-Kurdish opposition has caused Turkey to miss such a historic opportunity. So with some technical arrangements for the energy market here, we are looking for a way to make partial, palliative changes in Turkey's energy policies. Let's put it this way: In fact, if Turkey had been able to walk through some of the right policies about Rojava (the solution process), if it could read Syrian policies correctly, if it had been an effective actor in peaceful diplomatic efforts to go to the democratic Syrian republic, it would not have been in a position today to be condemned to sentences that would come out between the two lips of several countries. Unfortunately, with ISIS, with Al Nusra, with Ahra al-Sham, all kinds of dirty relations were made with gangs like the AKP, oil trades were made, and trades were made from the border -- millions of dollars -- to be determined by TİK figures.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0524par0345	Lies!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0523par0346	The whole world knows all this, the whole world is talking, and I'm not the only one saying it; the whole world is talking, and it's going to come in front of you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0525par0347	Forget the world, look at the facts, look at the facts. The whole world is talking... you've been lying to your neck, you've been lying here for months.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0523par0348	The only reason all of this is because of the foreign policy you've created on anti-Kurdishism, but as long as you haven't revised this foreign policy correctly, you're going to continue to drag this country into these mistakes.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0525par0349	You've been telling the same lie for months, and you're not sick of it.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0523par0350	Now, we're looking at media reports that you've slowly started the search for a return to the era of Brother Assad, so that the Kurds don't get status.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0526par0352	Where are you? Where are you in Turkey?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0527par0353	Congressmans, please, sir, please...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0523par0354	You're trying to get those diplomatic negotiations back under the table now. Look, you haven't been paying any attention to all the warnings we've been giving here. You may not...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0528par0356	Whatever's wrong with Turkey, you're there!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0523par0357	...but when you don't, you don't run away from that responsibility when we're talking about the invoice from the podium or when it comes to you internationally. With your wrong policies in Syria, the point is clear that you have brought relations with Russia. So there's been this sort of ephemeral situation, and now I'm going to bring it to a pilot error, and how can I put it together? You're actually humiliating the country's foreign policy over its search.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0529par0359	That's how much you understand.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0523par0360	The whole world's talking about it, the whole world's talking about it. It's your wrong foreign policy, as I said.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0530par0361	You were doing the halay there, aunty.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0523par0362	Now, you're thinking of getting out of this by transferring all these foreign policy errors to Mr. Davutoglu, but since the world has seen all reality, you can't possibly get any results from such a quest.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0531par0363	You can't fool people.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0523par0364	When we look at the foreign policy statements made by Mr. Bakili Yıldırım, we can already predict that there are worse days ahead. Regarding the German Parliament's stance, President Erdoğan says we will review all relations and will be seriously affected. There's nothing to worry about, Mr. Bakili Yıldırım. We'll keep things under control.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0532par0366	What do you know, how do you know!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0523par0367	Either that's where I'm concerned.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0532par0368	You're pulling the rope, Auntie.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0533par0369	Congressmans, sir, please.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0523par0370	You have no idea whether the ambassador has come to Turkey or not.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0534par0371	Mr. Vice President of the Group, what a choir!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0523par0372	The journalist asks: "Will you call the ambassador to the country? " The ambassador has come to Turkey, and the Prime Minister has no idea. Now, from such a vision, what energy policy can be created correctly, what foreign policy can be created correctly? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0535par0375	Three political parties have decided here, so tell me what you've done.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0536par0376	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0537par0377	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0536par0378	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0537par0379	Mr. Baluken has repeated his hundreds of claims that the AK PARTY has been associated with a number of illegitimate organisations such as ISIS, Al Nusra, in the Middle East. He's said it hundreds of times, and we've actually answered it hundreds of times; it's in the records, and once again, I want to remind you of these recordings.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0538par0380	We refused, we refused every time.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0536par0381	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0539par0382	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0536par0383	One moment, Mr. Bauken, there was Mr. Sky before you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0540par0384	Mr. Baluken to see you, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0536par0385	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0541par0386	Mr. President, this information I'm giving you is not information I've made up from our own point of view.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0542par0388	That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0543par0389	It's all made up.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0544par0390	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0545par0391	If you listen, look...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0544par0392	One moment, Mr. Baluken, one moment. Congressmans, Mr. Baluken just spoke from the bench.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0545par0394	We couldn't talk.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0544par0395	There's been a lot of talk from this side of the General Assembly, and I find it hard to hear him here. Now that he's up, he's saying something, and you're not giving him a chance to talk, I'm begging you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0546par0396	The same choir goes on, they're choirs.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0544par0397	It is the duty of the entire General Assembly to listen to a preacher, sir, please. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0547par0399	Mr. President, first of all, let me remind you that we did not choose to work for the General Assembly at this hour. We are currently conducting Parliamentary work here on a working schedule, which will include Sunday and if it does not end, through the group proposal brought by the AKP. Therefore, AKP MPs must respect Parliamentary work in accordance with this working calendar, which has come up with suggestions brought by their own group. Even if they disagree with the opposition's right to say what he said on the stand, they must respect it and give its answer on the stand. In the meantime, during the time you've given us today, we have said that it is not appropriate to have these talks held at this time, that the negotiations should be ended here, and that it should be continued on the following day or next week. So the reason why you're here at this hour is not because of us, but because of the suggestion you've brought in and the noncompromising attitude you've brought in, so let me put it this way.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0548par0401	Enough, Mayor, enough!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0549par0402	He's still talking!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0550par0403	Then go.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0548par0404	Enough! We don't want to hear it, enough! Let go of this authorized officer.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0551par0405	There's the choir again. What the hell!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0552par0406	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Yes, please.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0553par0408	Second, ISIS...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0554par0409	You work here with two people, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0555par0410	What's it to you?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0553par0411	Are we going to ask you how many people we're going to work with?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0555par0412	Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0556par0413	Mr. President, enough! There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0557par0414	Wait a second. Congressman, are you teaching the Presidential Court your duty?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0556par0416	I'll remind you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0557par0417	Who are you to remind the Presidential Court of your duty?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0556par0418	I remind you, yes. It's my duty as a congressman.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0557par0419	Snap out of it. Snap out of it.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0556par0420	You guys get your shit together. What's that?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0557par0421	Congressman, I remind you again to reconsider your attitude.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0556par0422	I am, okay. And you don't have to tell me...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0558par0423	That's not very nice.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0556par0424	It's not nice for him to tell me.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0559par0425	Congressman, did you say something I didn't hear?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0556par0426	No, I didn't tell you, I told your friend.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0559par0427	And I don't understand these hand gestures. What do you mean?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0556par0428	I don't have a hand gesture. When I'm talking, my hand goes up in the air, not an expression of disrespect to you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0559par0429	Don't be disrespectful, listen! Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0556par0431	Is that what he is, what we are? Is there such a thing?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0560par0432	Mr. President, there are records of ISIS dealing with the border trade in these Parliamentary minutes during budget talks. Through TÜİK data, we asked about the amount of border trade made between 2014 and 2016 by Akchakale Gate and Cerablus Gate.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0556par0433	He's still making me talk!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0560par0434	And the answers the government's ministers have given about them have been filed into Parliamentary reports. So we have expressed our views, not on some fabrication that we have made up in our own way, but on the facts that have been made up in the minutes of the House, in the numbers of the TİK.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0561par0435	Those are the stories the Russians made up, the stories the Russians made up. You agree. This country has nothing to do with ISIS.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0562par0436	Thank you, Mr. Baluken, it's been filed. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0563par0440	We have a roll call, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0562par0441	Yeah, I haven't voted yet, but I'm going now. There's got to be a roll call. First, I'm going to identify the MPs who requested roll call. Mr. Gök, Bayır, Mr. Emir, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Engin, Mr. Gökgin, Mr. Torun, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Bakır, Mr. Green, Mr. Toğul, Mr. Baluken, Mr. Dora, Mr. Yıldırım. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0564par0448	You can hardly find two parties and 20 people.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0565par0449	20 people use the bench more than 200 of you, 20 use it more than 200. And then there's that.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0564par0450	If 20 people had influence, you wouldn't be like this.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0565par0451	Unfortunately, you wouldn't be like this if 200 people had the effect.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0564par0452	The effects of 200 people continue.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0565par0453	Well, it's obvious, obviously.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0564par0454	We say the last word, and we always say the last, so don't worry.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0565par0455	Thanks.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0566par0457	There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With due respect, we offer and offer the requirements for the release of the statement "except the exceptions set by the council" in Article 14 (6) of Law Article 6446, which has been brought with Article 20/1 of Law Proposal 312. Kazim lion and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0567par0469	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0568par0470	Motive...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0566par0471	I'm having it read. The regulation of exceptions is not the right approach in the initiative on renewable energy sources, such as the transfer of shares. The proposed change aims to move within a framework that is consistent with the importance of the subject by which individuals or institutions will take steps in this matter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the statement "in the area of distribution" in Article 20 of the Law Proposal to change some Laws under Power Market Act 312. Mevlüt Karakaya (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0569par0482	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0566par0483	Mevlüt Karakaya, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0570par0486	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the motion on Article 20 of the law proposed to change some laws by the Power Market Law. I salute your high council. The idea of the proposal we're meeting is to increase the use of renewable energy sources in our country and to try to balance production for increasing energy demand. The AKP government has decided to take this step, even though it is too late, and has come to us with a proposal for a law. As you know, the most important renewable energy in the world today is solar energy. There are two conditions that are necessary to harness solar energy. The first is investments in the power of countries, or solar energy. The second is the geographical position of the countries, which is the ability to sunbathe. We know our country is in a very lucky position in the second of these conditions. Turkey is the second best sunbathing and capacity in Europe after Spain. But our country is not as fortunate as our God-given geographic position as the established power. The powers that govern our country have not used this advantage for years and have made our nation dependent on foreign countries. Although European countries started investing for renewable energy sources in the early 2000s, the first licensed solar energy tender in our country was held in 2014. Although Germany's power is 38,000 megawatts, the sunbathing capacity is less than one third of our country, our country's power capacity is only 410 megawatts. Dear lawmakers, the issue is not only failure in solar energy or other renewable energy sources. The point is that our energy policies are all wrong. The way to end this setback is by resorting to major structural changes. In this scope, the Department of Energy, connected and related organisations, the OSCE related to energy, the structural situation of the EPDK (EPDK) must be reviewed. In order to promote renewable energy and increase its share in energy production, a comprehensive, renewable energy policy must be created by meeting with all sides of the sector. The sensitivity of society in building a hydropower plant, which is another major foot in renewable energy sources, should also be considered. Projects that are not at risk of destroying the ecosystem should be carried out under Basin planning. In addition, environmental impact assessment legislation and relevant institutions must be reviewed. As we form energy policies, we need to think about our ecosystem and remember that we are a country of agriculture. In agricultural products, products to produce biofuel should be determined and produced with minimal damage and the highest benefit. Do we know that the land we use today, the land we've never had, is one centimeter of fertile farmland in five hundred years? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to make a message to power from here: your energy policies are bankrupt. From now on, spend your energy in the interests of our nation, our government, consider our proposals, and we won't be late any longer. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0571par0495	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 20th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 21: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 21 (c) of Article 21 (e.g.) of Article 312 of Power Market Act 312 and the removal of the non-technical missing person's statement. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Simsek Ruhi Ersoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st amendment of Law Proposal 312 be changed in the following manner. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Alican Önlü Mahmut Toğrul The joke (6) of Article 17 of Law 21-6446 has been changed as follows. In no way can consumers be billed for additional costs except for the amount of energy it consumes directly, loss cannot be reflected in consumers. The consumers are determined by the board on the application of the consumer, which has so far been billed without consumption, and with legal interest, consumers are given the right to consume as much energy as the equivalent of this money. These are the types of tariffs that are set up in accordance with this basic principle: İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Alican Önlü Mahmut Toğrul Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 21 of Article 21 be removed from the proposed text of the Power Market Act 312. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Bayır Tahsin Tarhan Kemal Zeybek Didem Engin Cetin Arik Özkan Yimım Ömer Fethi Gürer Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0572par0533	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0571par0534	Aykut Erdoğdu wants to talk about the motion, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0573par0537	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, yes, we are tired in the middle of the night. Now, the ruling party says, "Why does the opposition make us tired?" First of all, let's just say there's a law as important as electricity. So we've taken 25% of these people's votes, and we can't even touch a comma in this law, but our constituents are going to pay taxes on this law, and they're going to pay the price.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0574par0539	That went through the commission.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0573par0540	Now, just because he passed through the Commission doesn't mean it was a democratic compromise. Now, here's our problem. There's a difference between us, and you're thinking, you know, there's electricity production companies, there's distribution companies, there's costs. If we raise the cost of these companies, these companies will go down, they'll go down, they'll go down. So we look at it by consumers, and we say, these companies can't reflect them. Now, when we look on both sides, which side is the greater injustice? Look at the state of the large public masses in Turkey. There's an example: there's a woman called Hacire Arslan. He has five children. The power of the Hacire lion was cut; the next day he has homework, and it is cold. A widow in Hacire Arslan. He's going, he's turning his power on as a fugitive. And he was arrested, Hacire Arslan, sentenced to two and a half years in prison for illegal electricity. He's a cancer patient. I called the children of Hacire Arslan, and they are in a terrible state. I, of course, don't personally ask the municipalities for help, including our own municipalities. I told a friend of mine they left food at their house. Hacire Arslan went through all this trouble for the 400 million-dollar electricity bill, but for example, these coal companies, all the owners of the power distribution companies, they're all isolated in Bosphorus. Now, we're the ones who are isolated in the Bosphorus... no matter what political inclination they're voting for, no matter what party they're voting for, but there's a class mechanism here: you always put your priorities in favor of capital, and we're trying to put our efforts as far as possible. This philosophy of yours is no longer working in the world, and it's starting to not work out: wealth is becoming more and more monopoly, we're getting richer, we're seeing more and more expensive cars on the road, but people who pay this electric bill are getting poorer, their children are getting worse, they're getting worse, they can't afford healthcare, and it's going on. We have to figure this out together. That doesn't mean: "Come, let's sink these companies together." Come, let's seize the assets of these companies. We don't mean it, but we know how the laws we make here are in practice. For example, there's just been a rule of law. Well, it's not a bad substance, it's a cure for evil. He says, for example, that there can't be a pay transfer. We all know that in EPDK, there's a group called a serious player, he took these licenses, he used their relationship in bureaucracy, he used their relationship in politics, and they made a lot of money. We're here ten years later, and we're bringing in an arrangement to stop these pursers. Look, it's like this in electricity, in transportation, in all projects. If these injustices continue in this way, the result of injustice reflects income distribution as injustice, and if this distribution of income starts to break down so quickly, Turkey is standing over identity politics, and that's why people don't rebel. For example, we say something, the identity, the faith, whatever it is, the CHP people don't believe it. Or when you say something, because of a similar dissolution, people are based on this injustice, but there are moments when they can't stand it. When you look at the economic progress in the world and Turkey, the vast masses of people will now rebel against you, us, all of Parliament, a whole order, a whole law. It's up to us to find a solution to social peace, without making polarization so tense. I salute all of you, morning or night, at this hour. I'll be back in a little while, though. Good evening.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0575par0547	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st amendment of Law Proposal 312 be changed in the following manner. İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends The joke (6) of Article 17 of Law 21-6446 has been changed in the following way. In no way can consumers be billed for additional costs except for the amount of energy it consumes directly, loss cannot be reflected in consumers. The consumers are determined by the board on the application of the consumer, which has so far been billed without consumption, and with legal interest, consumers are given the right to consume as much energy as the equivalent of this money. These are the types of tariffs that are set up in accordance with this basic principle: Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0576par0558	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0575par0559	Mahmut Toğrul, MP of Gaziantep, who has asked about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0577par0562	Thank you, Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, yes, it's probably one of the most important items we're talking about, which means that the missing fugitives are being made pay. With this arrangement, the AKP government plans to reassess lost and illegal costs from all electricity subscribers, which are forced to be extradited by distribution companies as a result of the judicial decision. In the event of this regulation's legalisation, the missing and illegal costs collected from electricity users will be reassessed into bills due to lawsuits that have been filed so far, and it will be reassessed from all subscribers. In this way, citizens who have lost and have paid the price of fugitives, although they have no flaws or responsibilities, will also pay the same amount returned as reciprocals. For the first time, the proposal is described as missing and illegal electricity under the name of the missing person who is not technical or technical. Again, pencils for distribution and retail sales are made legal regulation. These regulations confirm that consumers have been collected without legal basis so far. The general reason for the bill is that liberalisation and privatisation processes create new costs for electricity users. Collecting lost and illegal costs is not only legalized, but also allowed to increase the loss and illegal costs collected in bills, in accordance with the changes that the EPDK will make in the target's loss and fugitive rates, in an arbitrary manner. The cost of non-technical losses is included in distribution tariffs and reflected to consumers. The procedure and the basis for the cost of identifying and changing target rates for technical and nontechnical losses are organised by the Council -- the rules that are removed -- and the rules are made. So far, the charges returned to the court have been re-indicted to the bills, and the following cases have been asked to prevent the court from making a decision against the collection of illegal costs, on the grounds that it is illegal. In applications and lawsuits related to the product or service fee, consumer arbitration committees and courts' authority, product or service costs are also limited by the control of the organisation's regulatory procedures. Again, the proposal envisions stopping cases related to the wrongful collection of missing and illegal costs, and validation of the laws passed later, not during the period of law enforcement. As a result of previous lawsuits, judicial decisions have been neutralized and the executions have been nullified, and therefore the extradition of the price is nullified. This provision, which is incompatible with the general principles of law and the rule of law, is clearly contrary to the Constitution. This provision by the AKP's government punishes citizens when it does not contain any encouraging, compelling regulations aimed at reducing the loss and illegal cost. The motion aims to pay back and not receive any more of the costs taken under the name of consumers, including the missing fugitives, the execution, the distribution, the sale, and other names. Dear friends, the AKP has once again proven to our people whose side you're actually on with this offer. He just said, yes, you're on the side of the rich, the monopoly, the distribution companies, the insurgents, the ships, the workers, the poor, and the people who live in narrow income in this country. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0578par0576	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0579par0578	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0578par0579	I'll call the number of decisions, the number of decisions I need. All those in favor of the motion... Those who don't agree... There is hesitation among members of the Presidential Court as to whether the number of decisions are sufficient. I'll vote with an electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'm starting the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 21 (c) of Article 21 (e.g.) of Article 312 of Power Market Act 312 and the removal of the non-technical missing person's statement. Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0580par0593	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0578par0594	It's Deniz Depboylu, Aydın MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0581par0597	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the 21st Amendment to Power Market Act 312. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, according to the proposal, the total cost of electricity distribution and authorized supply companies will be collected from consumers by the missing fugitives, counter-reading, retail sales service, delivery system use and distribution. We want to prevent the loss of our consumer's rights in our motion. Electricity production, distribution and delivery service is a public service, and it needs to be conducted in the public interest. The power, which sees all of our country's and our people's material and spiritual values as political and economic rants, does not remove its hand from a citizen's wallet through electricity bills. For 14 years, it has been unlawful to take unfair fees and costs under the name of different pencils over the price of electricity used in homes and workplaces. The price of distribution, the price of missing illegals, the cost of reading counters, the price of retail sales, the cost of delivery systems, the energy funding cuts, and the unfair and illegal costs collected under the name of TRT are inflating the public's electricity bills. According to the current electricity tariff issued by the Energy Market Editing Agency in January 2016, the price of retail service from organised industrial areas also brought our entrepreneurs to the point of rebellion. That's why we, the National Movement Party, are asking our citizens not to receive these fees, but to reduce their electricity bills. However, at the coming point, power also blocks the way for the court, while making it legal for us to take these fees with the opposite thought. We ask: Why do you continue to support your wrong privatisation policies and not our citizens? Despite the prediction that consumers will receive better quality and cheaper services with the privatisation of electricity distribution services, the practice has seen these effects for 14 years, with no improvements to consumers. On the other hand, even though privatisation has indicated that the missing and the fugitives will be reduced even further, the practice has been the opposite, and the missing and dumped on the honest citizen who paid for the electricity that the fugitive consumes. About 38.5 million citizens won't forget these three segments that are trying to legalize the illegal and illegal seizure of the money in their pocket over electricity bills.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0582par0601	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0581par0602	Sir, it's late. From now on, I will not be in the mood of Aydın. I will limit myself to this matter. Yeah, who's he not gonna forget? First: the MPs who drafted this bill and approved it here. Second: the Ministry of Energy and third: I'm afraid he won't forget the so-called autonomous energy market regulatory committee that's been established as a subsidiary. Judicial decisions, ongoing judicial proceedings, the results of consumer arbitration committees in favour of consumers and all missing costs pending collections will be against our citizens by this offer. Illegally, illegally reflected electricity in the bill of an honest citizen, and the damage to this scope will now be legally included in the electricity bill. Companies don't invest in preventing loss, and the higher the illegal use of malicious subscribers, the higher the public's electricity bills will increase. If the government is weak in collecting the cost of electricity produced by electricity, we see no moral aspect of the government's transfer of this weakness's bill to honest citizens with no responsibility. With such an impossibly illegal procedure, a legal arrangement to bypass judicial decisions will go down in history as a disgrace to the government. Daughter-in-law, when the road is near, give up your insistence and support our motion, and I say we show your goodwill, and I salute you, to show you sincerely that you are on the side of our citizens who voted. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0583par0611	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, there is a request for an open vote on the 21st article of the proposal. Now, I'm going to identify their presence in the General Assembly by reading the names of the lawmakers who have the will. Levent Gök, Ankara? Here. Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. Tahsin Tarhan, Bigeli? Here. Tacettin Bayır, İzmir? Here. Bulent Bektasoglu, Giresun? Here. Cetin Ağık, Kayseri? Here. Kazim Lion, Denizli? Here. Necati Yilmaz, Ankara? Here. Didem Engin, Istanbul? Here. Senal Sarıhan, Ankara? Here. Mehmet Gökdağ, Gaziantep? Here. Nihat Green, Ankara? Here. Seyit Grandson, Army? Here. Mevlüt Karakaya, Adana? Here. Murat Amir, Ankara? Here. Mahmut Tanal, Istanbul? Here. Bulent Kuşoglu, Ankara? Mr. Kuyoglu is not here. Irfan Copper, Isparta? Mr. Copper is here. Kadir Koçdemir, Bursa? Mr. Coachdemir is here. Ismail Faruk Aksu, Istanbul? Mr. Aksu is here. Kamil Aydın, Erzurum? Mr. Aydın is here. The Horseman, Mersin? Mr. Pitcher's here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. An open vote will be carried out by electronic device, according to the decision taken. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a two-minute period scheduled for a vote. In addition, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy be voted by any minister to deliver the vote color and the ballot bearing his name and name and signature to the presidential office within a two-minute period envisioned for the vote again. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The clear vote of Article 21 of Law Proposal 312: [[x]] Yes, Article 21 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 22: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the value assessment of Article 22 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws can not be made under Article 22 of the Power Market Act 312 which is currently in session. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Kemal Zeybek Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Didem Engin Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Erkan Aydın Özkan Yimım Çetin Arık Ömer Fethi Gürer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There is no value assessment of assets or shares in this joke as part of the privatisation tender of Article 22 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312. We provide and propose that the statement be taken out. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı See Lightning Spiritual Ersoy Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of Law Proposal 312 be removed from the proposal text. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0584par0682	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0583par0683	It's Berdan Ozturk, Ağrı MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0585par0686	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group to discuss Article 22 of the Law on Electric Market Number 312 and Amendments to Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. As you know, mines are the common property of the public, the people, and are under the government's rule and savings. In the name of the people, the right to run, search, and run mines belongs to the state. For a period of time, the state can transfer its right to search and run the mines to real and legal individuals in the framework provided by the Constitution. This era does not mean the age of ownership, or mines are not subject to private property in this sense. As the Mining Engineers' Chamber has made a determination, the management industry, particularly in countries with advanced coal industries, is the most heavy, the most difficult, and the most risky, the business is at the top of its arms. Therefore, health, safety of work, measures to be taken and investments to be made in such a business is extremely important. Another discovery made by the same room is to be thought of as a whole from underground mining management to the operating system, from ventilation to digging technology, from shipping, from staff employment to education and physibility education to investment. The biggest weakness created by privatisation policies, the redevance system and the unsecured policies is that business health and job safety are put into the plan for more profits. As of this stage, private sector's investments in this area are far behind the government's investments. After the public-issued mines have been transferred to the private sector, the increase in business accidents has drawn much attention. According to data from the Turkish Chamber of Engineers and Architectures Association, work killings in coal mines increased by 40 per cent from 2002 to 2011. Among the main causes of this increase are the following: privatisation, subcontractorization, neglect of labour health and work safety measures to reduce costs, reducing the number of workers working within the TTK by one-third. As a matter of fact, the state's redevance system and the cost of coal's ton come from $130 to $23, and the cost of its savings is the worst part of the situation when hundreds of workers die. The painting is darker than thought. Following privatisation and subcontractorisation policies, Turkey took its first place in Europe and the top three in the world in the fatal mining accidents. For this reason, subcontractors should be banned from employing jobs killings, removing labour health and labour safety from the law, allowing all control authority to be given to labour and occupational organisations, and making an urgent change and transformation. However, the only thing the AKP government understands about change and transformation is to privatise all public goods and pursue its own allies. Unfortunately, there's no value in paying the price of this commoner in Soma, because the value given to man is of little value in this government. The only thing this government cares about is the insatiable desire for money and profit. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0586par0689	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There is no value assessment of assets or shares in this joke as part of the privatisation tender of Article 22 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312. We provide and propose that the statement be taken out. Mevlüt Karakaya (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0587par0698	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0586par0699	Mevlüt Karakaya, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0588par0702	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the motion on Article 22 of the Law Against the Power Market Act and on the Amendment to some Laws. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, in fact, there is a balance problem with the electrical energy system in our country. We see that this balance is created within the framework of supply demand, price and energy security. Of course, it is vital for sustainability to create a balance between reasonable and affordable prices and the inconsistencies of energy security. Economic growth, social and human development, naturally increasing demand for electricity consumption. Depending on this, the lack of domestic and renewable resources to compensate for the deficit makes energy security more difficult by increasing external dependency. False resource preferences, wrongly applied incentives, loss and the inability to prevent fugitives have put pressure on public burdens and so on, causing prices to rise, not to be affordable levels. Valuable lawmakers aim to facilitate privatisation of assets and shares of the EUAS-related partnerships with Article 22 of the bill in order to establish renewable energy sources or an electrical production plant based on domestic coal. As it is known, since 2009, hydroelectric and thermal power plants have been privatised, while 52 hydropower plants have been privatised and 33 plants are under way. In addition, 11 thermal plants have been privatized, while 8 plants have continued privatisation and transfer operations. As a result of privatisations, EUASK's share in Turkey's power has fallen to 28 per cent and Turkey's share in electricity production has fallen to 18.32 per cent. Congressmans, we are not opposed to privatisation as the National Movement Party. At this point, we expect privatisation to be justified and to prevent a new monopoly in the electricity market. The government must rein in its move to create dominant power in the market, which is increasingly marked by privatisations, and establish the full competitive market structure in co-operation with the sector. Privatisations should primarily be implemented through the IPO, allowing the capital to spread to the bottom. Government monopoly must be prevented from replacing private sector monopolys, market regulatory studies must be activated, and competitive markets must be created. All measures must be taken to ensure that privatised plants can produce in international competitive conditions, protect consumer interests and not bring additional public burdens. Dear lawmakers, one of the conditions that I initially said is the regulatory of the market, which is essential for the creation of a balanced electrical production system, to sustain it. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0589par0709	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Power Market Act 312, we offer and propose that the value assessment of Article 22 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws be changed in the form of. Aykut Erdoğdu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0590par0718	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0589par0719	Aykut Erdoğdu has asked for a statement on the proposal, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0591par0722	Mr. President, there are two very dangerous declarations in the motion that I'm going to discuss, the value and the market. I just got off the phone with the bureaucrats, and they've explained in part -- let's not be disassociated. Partly logical, but partly irrational. I'll tell you why. Why are we afraid of this value assessment and the negotiating tender? Now, privatisation is that if you're going to sell a public asset, you need to know the value of it. For example, if you're going to sell this Assembly Hall, how many seats do you have, the lights, the place, you know, you bring out a value, and it's a price on your bid, partly this kind of cost or something like that? The Privatisation Act says: "Before privatisation is determined, and after privatisation is completed, this evaluation report is released to the public." For example, do you think any evaluation reports have been made public in your privatisations? Unexplained. Let me give you an example of why it wasn't explained: Now, for example, TEKEL had a alcohol factory, which sold to a businessman who was very close to your party for $280 million, and even to a businessman who was in the pool. This businessman sold this factory for $280 million for $1 billion eight months after he bought it, and he sold it for $2.5 billion two years later.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0592par0723	Abo!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0591par0724	If it had been appraised, if it had been evaluated, it would have been sold for $280 million -- and by the way, they've made terrible profits -- it would have turned out to be at least 10 times the amount of assets. That's why the evaluation report hasn't been released. For example, the TELEKOM company was sold for $11.5 billion, but after the sale of the TELEKOM company, taxes were reduced, fixed fees were paid, no competition. So, because we have these bad experiences, we don't do evaluations. The moment we hear the word, despite the reasonable explanations of bureaucrats -- because there were reasonable explanations at the time -- we are concerned. Second issue: the tender is said to be negotiated. Now, the right way to do these kind of tenders is in closed bid style, and open bids in regular tenders. So, why are you putting it down to a negotiation deal by yourself? Because the administration has a lot of jurisdiction in the negotiating tender. Normally, we have experience in how the government's broad powers are used. The government's broad powers often lead to the absence of opposition businessmen or a number of incentives for prerecognised companies. Guys, that doesn't make any more sense. For example, Mr. Secretary just explained that there are reasonable processes related to nuclear energy, but of course we don't have that kind of chance, we haven't developed a counter argument. You're going to build a nuclear plant -- I'm absolutely against it and I'm not helpless -- but there are a lot of ways to do it. For example, we have diplomatic interests. You're not bidding on our diplomatic interests. From one source, there is a method called "single source." There are many ways to choose from this single source. But, in this way, the company that Mr. Minister used to be CEO or CEO of has no questionable business relations with that country. See, that's what's wrong. Now, you're trying to get us to admit these wrongs. That nuclear power plant isn't just yours, it's all of us; it's not just going to hurt you or us when that nuclear plant goes off, it's going to hurt all of us. We're trying to learn about energy policies now. For example, what was our way of getting the right information about these nuclear plants? Because we have a constitutional authority, we can supervise you; you can rule, but we can control you. There were strong Court reports. Has he been to the opposition parties? He didn't show. What happens when you don't show up? The information is being monopolized. Mr. Secretary's getting out of there... and we're lucky to read it, but we don't believe it right away. You can't go any further this way. Look, I'm telling you, there's at least $30 billion in damage to the TELEKOM issue. If there's a chance one day, I'll tell you how it happened. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0593par0731	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0594par0733	Mr. President, may I have a quick word?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0593par0734	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0594par0735	About Mr. Aykut, there's no value sale here. There's no need to evaluate it for him. The Privatisation Administration has prepared this clause himself, which is the one we're talking about, which is where the Privatisation Administration prepared the site. I'll tell you what kind of allocation is in very short, thirty seconds: We're here to privatize the transition of the fields, and privatisation is in the open depletion method of the tender, so what do I need as a government? Electricity. Whoever gives me the cheapest, not the age of the field, not the sale of the field, but the ten years, fifteen years on allocation, and whoever gives the cheapest power to the state, will give him the right to operate. So there's no sale, and there's no value because there's no sale. I just wanted to make a quick note to the House about him. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0595par0738	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0596par0739	Mr. President, can I make a very brief statement?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0595par0740	Here you are, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0596par0741	Evaluation isn't just for sale. Second thing: if you're going to make a clean bid, like you're going to do a closed bid, like one of them's going to give you 12 cents, one of them's going to give you 9 cents, and one of them's going to give you 6 cents. Who gave him six cents, you give him the bid. But what will you do in the negotiating process?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0597par0743	Evaluation of income capacity, which means it's not a normal sale there.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0596par0744	Negotiating negotiations will begin, separate negotiations, one by one, and he has a terrible right to be appreciated. Neither did the people who wrote this Privatisation Act in vain. Mr. Minister says it's not a normal privatisation. The age of this minefield, since there is such a thing, they bring a separate law on something so important, they write all the processes, so it's a transparent tender process. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0598par0746	Way to go, Aykut!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit08spe0599par0747	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Members of parliament, there is a request for an open vote on the 22nd Amendment. Now, I'm going to find out if they're present at the General Assembly by reading the names of the clients: Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. Levent Gök, Ankara? Here. Tacettin Bayır, İzmir? Here. Kazim Lion, Denizli? Here. Senal Sarıhan, Ankara? Here. Mahmut Tanal, Istanbul? Here. Mevlüt Karakaya, Adana? Here. Bulent Bektasoglu, Giresun? Here. Cetin Ağık, Kayseri? Here. Mehmet Ahrazoglu, Hatay? Here. Mehmet Gökdağ, Gaziantep? Here. Seyit Grandson, Army? Here. Nihat Green, Ankara? Here. Kadir Koçdemir, Bursa? Here. Necati Yilmaz, Ankara? Here. Murat Amir, Ankara? Here. The Horseman, Mersin? Here. Aykut Erdoğdu, İstanbul? Here. Tahsin Tarhan, Bigeli? Here. Kamil Aydın, Erzurum? Here. That's 20 names. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Under the decision taken, the open vote will be carried out by electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a two-minute period scheduled for a vote. Also, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote be voted by whomever minister is acting, and the ballot bearing the color of the game and its name and name and signature, be delivered to the presidency within a two-minute period scheduled for the vote again. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The clear vote of Article 22 of Law Proposal 312: [[x]] Article 22 is accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0599par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 98th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 312. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are three motions on Article 23 that I'm having read...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0600par0006	We're making our motion, which begins with Emin Haluk Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0599par0007	Yes, the National Movement Party's motion is withdrawing. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that other expenses related to Article 23 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws should be changed in the form of related expenses. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Kemal Zeybek Cetin Arik Özkan Yım Erkan Aydın Ömer Fethi Gürer Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that his statement be changed in the following form, after which it will come in Article 23 of Law Proposal 312. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0601par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0599par0030	Idris Bauken, Diyarbakır MP who wants to talk about the motion... I don't think so. I'm having it read. The proposal is intended to make the text of matter more clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that other expenses related to Article 23 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws should be changed in the form of related expenses. Kazim lion and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0602par0042	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0603par0043	Motive...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0599par0044	I'm having it read. With this change, the material is intended to have a more understandable meaning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 23 is accepted. There are three motions on the 24th article, and I'm having them read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Law Proposal 312 will be changed in the form of the following form, after which it will come to be mentioned in the article (1) of the 24th article of the current Law Proposal. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmoud Celadet Güdalı Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement referred to in Article 24 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws should be changed in the form of the article. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Simsek Ruhi Ersoy Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Power Market Act 312 and the Council of Ministers shall determine the amount and the other procedures, including the duration and price setting of the provision of the 24th amendment of the Law Against some Laws. We submit and propose that the declaration be changed in the following way. The amount, time and price-setting of the supply in question, and other procedures and bases are determined by the regulation of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, in line with the view taken from the relevant public institutions and institutions. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Özkan Yım Didem Engin Kemal Zeybek Ömer Fethi Gürer Cetin Arık Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Erkan Aydın Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0604par0077	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0599par0078	It's Kazim Arlen, Denizli MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0605par0081	Mr. President, I have made a promise that we would like to request a amendment to Article 24 of the Law on Electric Marketing 312. I salute you all with love. When we evaluate the broadness of this law, it turns out that as no burden has been brought on the distribution companies, there is an arrangement that completely burdens the consumer and inflates the price, especially for the consumer's purchase of electricity. As for consumers, it is clear that the price is inflated with a lot of pens that consumers can't really pay for, and the money for electricity is unfairly and unlawfully, trying to buy, and thus bringing a heavy burden on consumers. It appears that missing fugitives are trying to be loaded on honest subscribers, and investment spending is still trying to overload consumers. Let's take a look at our business. We have a lot of friends who do a lot of work. But, I've never added anything to the bill for the goods I've sold in my line of work. I've never added anything to the money for the transport, I've never added anything to the delivery money, I didn't add anything to it, I didn't add anything to it. But, you see, the result of a study that will be brought in under the regulation of this law is that a lot of pens are written in the electric bills and uploaded to the consumer. Now, what kind of privatisation is that, in fact, with privatisation, there's a message being sent to the public that both the competition is going to increase and the prices are going to cheapen, and then we finally see that there's a structure, an attitude towards total monopoly. So, it's clear that there was no good contract with distribution companies in the first place, so there was an arrangement that burdened the consumer completely by putting on prices, so that the problems that would have arisen later could be completely corrected by the failures during the agreement's walk. Now we're looking at distribution companies, where there's no risk to the distribution companies, and they're getting power from TETASH to consumers. What's the distribution company doing here? It's just a service, an intermediary, but it's making a lot of money off the back of a consumer, but it's not willing to take any risks, it's not taking any risks. Now, in market conditions like this, it's clear and clear that in a market like this, there could always be injustice, illegality, and that it would ultimately remain above the state and above the citizens. For him, it is not acceptable for companies to read the meter as they sell the electricity, which is essentially their primary task, and then eventually find the cost, such as the price of reading the meter from the consumer, meaningless, meaningless, like the cost of communication, meaningless, like the cost of the system, to add prices to the bill. So I'm saying that these things need to be corrected, that consumers should be electrocuted at a price that is literally the result of competition. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0606par0088	Thank you, Mr. lion. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement referred to in Article 24 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws should be changed in the form of the article. Emin Haluk Ayhan (Marine) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We're giving credit, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0607par0097	We'll leave it to the General Assembly's discretion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0606par0098	Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0608par0100	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 24 of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws by Power Market Act 312. At this time of day, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the agreements on the trade-instrument of Turkey's Electric Trade and Accord Incorporated Asystrians, do-business-development and right-of-business power plants are being filled by the regulation of Article 24 of the proposal. This arrangement regulates the ability of TETASH to make electricity energy tenders that allow it to meet its obligations within the framework of Law Code 6446. It is also organised that TETASH makes the purchase of electricity primarily from these facilities in order to encourage local coal-fueled electricity production facilities. In this article, environmental sensitivity is ignored and a very serious environmental problem concerns our future. In the event that TETASH cannot meet the amount of electricity that it should meet, the Council of Ministers has the authority to determine the amount, time and price of this provision, as it is specified by companies running local coal-fueled power plants. However, citizens are especially concerned that the authority to set a price will be used in the form of a transfer of its authority to subsidiary companies. In addition, it is not possible to understand that in our country, developed countries are concerned about environmentally sensitive renewable energy sources. In our country, which is going to need more energy, energy production and efficiency in the future, providing energy supply security and encouraging investments for renewable energy sources must be accelerated, but our country, which has signed the Kyoto Protocol and adopted the terms of this contract, must be more careful to use thermal energy sources in particular. Energy must be produced without harming the environment and human health with an approach based on environmental and sensitive understanding, improved waste control and disposal, basin and resource planning. In order to combat global warming and climate change that threatens our world, coal-based energy production must be made by consideration of environmental dimensions. However, as we're about to talk about, it's going to get better and better, if the goal is to save the day for someone, if it's not to think about the future of the citizen or the country, then there's nothing to do. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid the offer also poses a major threat. In the interim article 8/1, large structures that are completely contrary to environmental legislation will be exempted from punishment by 2019, and nature will be plundered with structures that will be exceptioned to the CED legislation. This arrangement also violates the 56th Amendment of our Constitution. AT THE same time, TEDAS will produce from coal-fueled electricity production companies, while investing in these companies, polluting nature as you wish. In addition, one of the main functions of the Energy Markets Organization is to ensure that a citizen receives electricity in the distribution of electricity at the most appropriate supply safety and at the appropriate price, and we see that the relevant arrangements are regulations that prevent the citizens from using electricity at the appropriate price, and I salute you all again at this hour of the morning.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0609par0106	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Law Proposal 312 will be changed in the form of the following form, after which it will come to be mentioned in the article (1) of the 24th article of the current Law Proposal. İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0610par0115	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0609par0116	It is Erol Dora, Mardin MP who wants to speak about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0611par0118	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 24th Amendment of the 312-tiered Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, I'd like to first share with you the message that workers working at DEDASH in Diyarbakır have sent us regarding the loss of their rights. Mr. Congressman, we worked for DEDAS as malfunction maintenance staff at various times. Following privatisation on 01/06/2013, EKSIM Holding Inc has claimed responsibility for all departments and personnel of the DEDAŞ institution. The EKSIM Holding administration, like the government-run DEDAS, has enslaved and exploited us malfunction maintenance workers, especially by handing over the supply of malfunction maintenance to subcontractors, even subcontractors. In these subcontractor processes, our minimum and natural rights of overtime, roads and meals are definitely not paid for by us. Therefore, because of our rights mentioned above, we have filed a lawsuit against subcontractors and the main employer, EKSIM Holdings, to pay our overtime, roads and food fees through the court. On 01/06/2016, EKSIM Holdings imposed a contract that we can call slavery, and made two conditions for signing the contract. One: to sign a waiver on all our lawsuits and rights against ECSIM Holdings. Two: We have been asked to resign from our constitutional rights union. We, the workers who run the DEDAS fail-safe maintenance repair system, have informed the employer that we will resist by not signing the slave agreement imposed on us. So they refused to accept our upright stance and informed us that 350 personnel had terminated their work as of 01/05/2016. Dear lawmakers, the message I read comes as a result of the withdrawal of energy production into capital. We also tell the minister that there is an urgent need to find a solution to the problem that has been experienced by DEDAŞ workers in Diyarbakir right now. With the bill being ignored by the judiciary, the ECSIM Holdings pressure the workers to waive their lawsuits has made clear the relationship between power and capital. Furthermore, it is unacceptable for workers to be asked to resign from their unions. How and how can this company show this daringness to disregard the Constitution? Of course, this is exactly how the statement of the government's approach, which defies the Constitution, suspends the law, comes to our attention in the field of labor. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers; the AKP government stipulates that with this bill, cases related to the wrongful collection of missing and illegal costs should be halted in reverse or that the legislation shall be passed later, not at the time of the execution. As a result of previous cases, judicial decisions have also been neutralized and the dismissal of executions has been invalidated, and therefore the extradition of the price is invalidated. The general principles of law and this arrangement, which is incompatible with the rule of law, are clearly a violation of the Constitution. No body, authority, authority, or person can give orders to the courts and judges in the use of the jurisdiction; it cannot send orders and instructions to the courts; it cannot give advice and advice, as stated in Article 138, which regulates the independence of the courts. There is no question about the use of judicial authority in the Legislative Assembly, no discussion, no statement of any kind. With legislation and executive bodies, management must comply with court decisions; these bodies and the administration cannot change court decisions by any means, and cannot delay the fulfillment of them. As in this proposal of the law, it is not surprising that in a country where the power defies the Constitution, non-legal companies do not recognise the law, and I salute the General Assembly again. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0612par0130	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the amendment to the 24th Amendment, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 24th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 25th article, two of which are the same property, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the term "directionally" issued in Article 25 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Simsek Mehmet Parsak Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 25 of Law Proposal 312 be removed from the proposal text. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıdirm Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Alican Önlü The signatures of the other motion are: Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Kemal Zeybek Özkan Yım Didem Engin Cetin Arik Ömer Fethi Gürer Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Erkan Aydın Does the commission participate in two proposals of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0613par0164	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0612par0165	I'll make a promise to the MPs who want to talk about the motions. Murat Emir, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0614par0169	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you at this hour of the morning. Of course, you're telling us that we're a very fast party, we work fast, we get results fast, and you're telling us to get used to it. Well, is it? No, I'm afraid not. When we look at the 25th article that I have promised, we can clearly see how slow you are when it doesn't suit you. I read from the article:...that investments in harmonisation of environmental legislation will be granted until 31/12/2019 to complete the necessary permits for environmental legislation.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0615par0172	Okay, there's an election in 2019, that's why.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0614par0173	See, this means: Think about a company, think about a company about distribution of electricity, think about it polluting the environment, think about it not making the investments that that company should have done, and you know that, but you say: "We can wait until the end of December 2019." Dear friends, we ask you for a reckoning, so leave us alone; these people will ask you for a reckoning. If these people don't answer, those polluted streams will be teas, ants, insects, trees will answer to you, those rivers will answer to you. Come on, don't do this. In a law, it is not in any way a conscientious approach to recommend a period of nearly five years, friends. Of course, here, almost every speaker has expressed how the missing fugitive costs were actually placed on the backs of our citizens who didn't consume it. Of course, I'd like to remind you that, once again, this was actually abandoned 3,000 years ago. Three thousand years ago, there was really a collective punishment during the primitive legal era, societies, tribes, each other, collective punishment, but you should know that this has been abandoned for 3,000 years. It's not as if you're trying to put the price of electricity that you don't respond to in some way, that you don't even need to explain, that you don't need to, that people who don't use it, that you're trying to put our law on your back, and so you're actually taking your understanding back 3,000 years. Dear friends, I'd like to tell you about a decision made by the European Court of Human Rights and our Supreme Court. A law was passed in 2008, and it was decided that the cost of electricity in the places of worship would be met by the budget of Religious Affairs. However, when it comes to the temples, your discrimination, your ignoring, and the fact that we don't consider this place a sanctuary. In 2014, however, the European Court of Human Rights, as your government, has made it clear that you have no right to determine, regulate, dictate, or dictate anyone's faith as a government. In the same way, the Supreme Court ruled against it in 2015, and we are faced with the fact that it is now considered a temple. The Turkish judiciary has made the right decision on this matter; the government has decided that no one has the right to divide anyone, to replace anyone, to come to the mosque if you like it, to say, "If you don't come to the mosque, go to the mosque." To say, "You can't call a temple where I don't recommend it, you can't worship there." He has made it clear that no one has the right to say, "No one has the right." What needs to be done now is to establish a legal status. The Alevis want their basic rights, they want equal rights, they come in demand for equal citizenship, and you shouldn't ignore their demands any longer. I'd like to say good evening to you in the hope of setting up a more equal Turkey in the end of my words, but I think it would be more appropriate to say good morning.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0616par0180	Thank you, Mr. Emir. It's Berdan Ozturk, Ağrı MP, who wants to talk about the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0617par0184	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment to Article 25 of the Law Against the Power Market Act 312 and to the amendment of the 25th Amendment. Like fossil fuels that are limited, nuclear energy is an endless road because uranium used in nuclear plants is a very rare substance in nature. Technological projects that predict re-emerge from nuclear waste to solve this problem cannot be implemented for technical and economic reasons. In a few decades, the atomic industry will run out of fuel. As uranium and natural gas will eventually run out, mankind will only be able to meet the need for energy in the long run by preventing renewable energy and unnecessary loss in energy use. Although the nuclear industry tries to convince us otherwise, there is no such thing as a secure nuclear plant. As the disaster of Fukushima occurred in Japan in 2011, accidents do not occur only in old-tech nuclear plants or in less developed countries. The nuclear plants in Germany have a security incident every three days. The Federal Radiation Protection Agency receives between 100 and 200 incident reports each year from Germany's nuclear power plants. French nuclear reactors have an average of 900 incidents per year. Any of these can easily cause a new Chernobyl or Fukushima disaster. In 1986, the Chernobyl disaster left its 30th year behind on 26 April. The harmful effects of radiation spread by radioactive fallout from the exploding nuclear plant continue to affect life. Over the past twenty and thirty years, the process of cancer has passed, noting that people affected by the radiation released from Chernobyl today have significant increases in cancer types as well as in non-cancer diseases, particularly carcinoma diseases. In addition to all these diseases, early aging has also been determined to be related to radiation in recent years. Radioactive activity is able to re-integrate through soil, air and food chain, causing the radioactive effect to re-explore and re-explore in the living. And it would take a long time for that effect to be seen as concrete. The effect of radiation on genetic material means that the future generations will be affected most of all species. To highlight the importance of nuclear energy, the atomic industry highlights the share of nuclear energy in electricity production. But looking at the share of nuclear energy in energy consumption across the world, it turns out that human energy needs are of almost no importance at all. In 2011, nuclear electricity met only 6 per cent of the world's energy requirements. Renewable energy already contributes to the world-wide need. Turkey can easily give up a very, very small share of nuclear energy. With the risk of nuclear accidents, nuclear waste spreading high radioactive waste, and the costs of their safe storage, nuclear energy will not be economical at all, which may last for a short period of time. Nuclear energy is dangerous and unnecessary. It is incumbent upon all of us to return the nature we have entrusted to our children, to our children, without betraying the trust. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0618par0192	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the term "directionally" issued in Article 25 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312. Emin Haluk Ayhan (Marine) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0619par0201	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0618par0202	Mehmet Parsak, MP of Afyonkarahisar, who has asked about the motion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0620par0203	Kamil Aydın, Erzurum MP.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0618par0204	This is Kamil Aydın, Erzurum MP.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0620par0206	Maybe with your speech, they can appeal to acceptance.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0621par0207	Yeah, I hope we can be convincing. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, good morning, and I salute you all with my best wishes. But, it's morning, the sun's up, and I'd like to pick on Mr. Secretary with some new energy. Now, while our Minister was just passing on his answers to the questions, however, as he responded to what we talked about at this hour in the United States about our missing fugitive, he said: I mean, there are six billion dollars missing in the United States of America. Let's not get ahead of ourselves. Even in America, he's lost, but the fugitive is a bit troubled, and we have some concerns about that for some reason. Now, Mr. Secretary, these are both interpretations from a critical point of view. One: I mean, right now, our people have a huge infinitive, and they want a solution. But we're saying that, you know, by underestimating that this, like, happens in a woman's daughter, it's like an incentive to make a way for those who use it, for those who commit it, even for those who don't do it, and for those who are honest and responsible for their citizenship as well as for those who act consciously, it's an inverted motivation as if they're being punished. In this sense, I think it's a good idea not to set a precedent for this perception. And now there's been a lot of digits, a lot of talk about missing fugitives, a lot of time. In this context, I'd like to talk to all of you about energy, especially the production and distribution of electricity, or one or two things that have reached all of you from your constituencies so far, these are troubling things, especially management. It was as if there was a shortage of identification of positions, tasks, responsibilities, and powers in the post-privatisation of TEDAS and institutions, when the staff in the institution was distributed to different institutions. Indeed, in our complaints, such as the engineer himself, an electrical engineer, but in the institution he's been sent to, believe me, he can't do the right thing, he can be assigned by the head of that institution in an arbitrary way, wherever he wants to be. And as such things happen, other than what they've been paid before, they're really, really suffering from a lot of harm. It's not something that directly concerns the Ministry of Energy, but with our ministry's contribution, it's a problem that can be solved, so let's help our colleagues at the point of authority and responsibility and rights. Another thing is that after privatisation, especially in rural units, in our counties, there are major complaints to the trustees. It's more felt in areas where climate conditions are heavy. So, when there's a blizzard, a rain, a wind, any heavy conditions like this, the lamppost in the village falls down or makes a lamp, something happens, the wires snap. Who's the reporter? The Mukhtar is looking for my head of the district. My brother-in-law says, sir, call the company. They're looking for the company, and the company says it's not our responsibility, it's going to be TEDAS; we're going to fix it; we're going to fix it, we're going to fix it, we're going to do it through TEDAS. He's looking for it, poor Mukhtar, this time they're saying no, sir, it's between this company's responsibility. Believe me, we have villages in the dark for months, village chiefs in the mosque with lanterns, village dwellers.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0622par0214	That's right.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0621par0215	There is also a real problem in this sense. By holding all of this together, at the point of resolving these troubles, Mr. Secretary and the valued MPs, if we lead, we're already making our nation pay heavy bills, and I'm telling them to use the electricity they deserve, the money, the price they charge, in peace. I wish you good morning again, my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0623par0219	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, there is a request for an open vote on the 25th article. Now, I'm going to find out if they're in the General Assembly by reading the names of the client lawmakers. Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. Levent Gök, Ankara? Here. Tacettin Bayır, İzmir? Here. Tahsin Tarhan, Bigeli? Here. Cetin Ağık, Kayseri? Here. Bulent Yener Bektasoglu, Giresun? Here. Kazim Lion, Denizli? No. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu, Hatay? Here. Senal Sarıhan, Ankara? Here. Didem Engin, Istanbul? Here. Necati Yilmaz, Ankara? Here. Mehmet Gökdağ, Gaziantep? Here. Nihat Green, Ankara? Here. Irfan Copper, Isparta? Here. Mahmut Tanal, Istanbul? Here. Murat Amir, Ankara? Here. The Horseman, Mersin? Here. Bulent Kuşoglu, Ankara? No. Kamil Aydın, Erzurum? Here. Kadir Koçdemir, Bursa? Here. Mevlüt Karakaya, Adana? Here. Sure Haluk Ayhan, Denizli? Here. Ismail Faruk Aksu, Istanbul? Mr. Aksu is here too. We found 20. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Under the decision taken, the open vote will be carried out by electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The clear vote of Article 25 of Law Proposal 312: [[X]] Article 25 is accepted. There are two motions on the interim article 19 of the 26th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current regulations will not be implemented until the provisions envisioned in Article 19 of Power Market Law 312 are implemented. We demand and demand that the law be changed in the form of the electricity market. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Bayır Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Cetin Arık Necati Yilmaz Şenal Sarıhan Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the proposed text of the interim clause, which is envisioned for the extension of the 312 rows of Law Proposal under Article 26 to Law 6446. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Mahmut Toğrul Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0624par0280	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0623par0281	Mahmut Toğrul, MP of Gaziantep, who has asked about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0625par0284	Thank you, Mayor. Dear MPs, I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, privatisations are increasing the cost of electricity and the price of sale. Now, what needs to be done is to immediately give up privatisations and develop energy policies in accordance with the conditions of our country. These privatisations in the field of energy will push unemployment and subcontractorization to a secondary plan for business health and safety to lower costs due to the ambition to increase profit margins, which will lead to increased business killings. For economic, social development and human life, the reliable, cheap and clean supply of energy has become our country's most important problem. Sustained privatisation and free market practices have led our country to energy shortages, our people to expensive electricity prices. Fighting and resisting these wrong practices is a priority patriotic duty. The poorest people have no way of using increasingly expensive electricity. We object to almost the privatisation of the Linite fields and thermal plants. We're stressing that the only solution to the supply of energy is the public production and service presentation, and we're going to keep stressing. The current energy policy is imposed on the world with forms of energy exploitation and production, such as thermal plants, HESEs, nuclear power plants, mines, conventional and new methods, and the removal of rock gas, oil and natural gas underground. In addition to the destruction of ecosystems and biodiversity, the world's climate balance is changing rapidly and dangerous in the last quarter century. If climate change is not seriously halted, ecological and social destruction will take far more dangerous dimensions, which will deepen economic, social conflicts. The Republic of Turkey is contributing to this negative development, among the world's leading states in the rise of greenhouse gas emissions per capita. The dominant centralist and exploitive energy policies, antisocial urbanization, increasing the consumption of matter and food, are accelerating with urban and inter-city highways. Clearly, current energy policies lead to more climate change, ecological destruction and war policies. Dear lawmakers, we live in this universe, and unfortunately, we are rapidly ending this universe. We're making the world, the ecosystem, and the universe uninhabitable as we go on with policies that make some people richer and increase their energy consumption in a way that can't be avoided. Especially with the nuclear problem now in the world, that it's malfunctioning, that it's troubled, that it's ending the world, that it's disrupting the ecosystem, and that it's causing various health and environmental problems, while it's now a tradition in the world, we've put new enthusiasm on this issue, like the Third World countries, and we're trying to destroy Akkuyu, Sinop Τ. Likewise, we quickly consume the hees, our streams, our mechases, our waterworks. As soon as this policy destroys history, geography, culture, in fact, climate change, greenhouse gas emissions will destroy the universe and the ecosystem. We're becoming creatures that consume their own geography. On this occasion, at this hour of the morning, unfortunately, I'd like to say good morning to the AKP. Hopefully, they'll be a little affected by what we're saying, but we continue to be sad to see that they're not affected. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0626par0291	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current regulations will not be implemented until the provisions envisioned in Article 19 of Power Market Law 312 are implemented. We demand and demand that the law be changed in the form of the electricity market. Kazim lion and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0627par0300	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0628par0301	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0626par0302	I'm having it read. Since the current regulation is incomplete, it must not be implemented until the law is in effect. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the interim Article 19 of Article 26: those who accept... those who do not accept... the Interim Article 19 is accepted. There are three motions on the interim Article 20 of Article 26. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the interim Article 20, which is held under Article 26 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Simsek Ruhi Ersoy İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Alican Önlü Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Didem Engin Kemal Zeybek Özkan Yım Erkan Aydın Cetin Arık Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Ömer Fethi Gürer Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0629par0334	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0626par0335	I'll give my word to those who have motions for the same kind of motions. Didem Engin, Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0630par0339	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the High Council and wish you a good morning since it's half past five in the morning. The AKP's Electric Market Law Proposal contains a series of regulations that prevent the return of lost contraband in electricity bills that concern all our citizens. The 26th article in the law proposal that I'm promised is a clause related to this missing fugitive issue. You know, every time we charge an electric bill, we pay the missing fugitive price. For example, the bill for a subscriber using 50 lira electricity increases to about 100 euros in total, with taxes, with a TRT share, with a missing fugitive price. Some of our citizens filed a lawsuit a while ago, and we're not the ones who are using electricity as a fugitive. Why are you taking money from us? They objected. The Supreme Court has also justified our citizens and has decided to extradite the collection of stolen electricity costs. Furthermore, it is the duty of the distribution company to prevent escapees and collect them from those who are using them as fugitives, said the Supreme Court. Of course, when such a decision came out of the Supreme Court, the distribution companies were deeply disturbed because between 2006 and 2010, the loss we paid to citizens' distribution companies was $33 billion. Therefore, they do not wish to repay such a price to the citizen. With this bill, the government has asked that all the extradition costs and costs of the courts in favour of the citizen be reflected again on all subscribers' bills. I take your attention to the fact that he even wanted to make us, the subscribers, pay for the court fees, the government. He also wanted the investment spending of distribution companies from 2006 to 2010 to be reflected in citizens' bills starting in 2016, government. When we, the opposition party, reacted and you said how to ignore the rights of the citizen, some of them were forced to withdraw in the Commission, and the decision is now expected to be made. In addition, the government has added a clause limiting the authority of consumer arbitration committees and courts to this proposal so that similar cases will not be filed after this. There's also a notice in this clause that I'm talking about that allows the decision to be made by this limited authority so that there will not be a decision on the extradition of illegal electricity costs in current cases, so in short, illegal electricity costs are required by law from 36 million subscribers. In addition, a few hours ago, the 15th article passed by AKP votes, where illegal electricity was legally recognised; the illegal issue of fugitives was legalised by the definition of nontechnical loss. So, the government doesn't want to use the word "trafficker" anymore, and it thinks that if you don't use the word "smuggler," the citizen won't notice and will pay. The government's job is not to increase the profits of electricity distribution companies, but to protect the rights of its citizens. How can I charge honest subscribers who regularly pay the missing fugitive's electricity bill? In 2011, our current President, who reads the 61st Government Programme in the Parliament General Assembly, said: "We aim to reduce the rate of electrical missing persons at the end of 2010 to 6 per cent by the end of 2015. The number of missing fugitives is still 14 per cent in 2016, at the level of 151%, so the AKP has not made any progress on this issue. It's very easy to set goals, and the important thing is to take decisive steps to achieve them. The government has no right to bill our citizens for this failure. This law proposal is an indication of how much the AKP, which has ruled our country alone for 14 years, values our citizens and how much he cares about concepts such as rights, law, justice. This provision brought by the government violates many of our Constitutional provisions. In Article 2 of our Constitution, the principle of social law is subject to the basic objectives and duties of the state in Article 5 of Article 38, the responsibility of punishment in Article 38. The State shall take protective and enlightening measures in Article 172, encouraging consumers to protect and protect themselves. We hope that this approach, which seeks to prevent those who seek their dues from going to court, will be rejected by the Supreme Assembly, and will be removed from the text of the law, which includes an open violation of our Constitution. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0631par0350	Thank you, Mr. Engin. Idris Baluken, Diyarbakır MP who wants to talk about the other proposal in the same context. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0632par0354	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're going to say good morning to all of you, our last words, our last words. For one thing, at the point of the breach of the Constitution of this law proposal, I think there's a consensus of understanding in the General Assembly. I mean, even if it does pass through here, we've been working this long because of a law that's gonna come back from the Constitutional Court. But, of course, we've still tried to express as many of our party views about energy policies as possible on this occasion. Its essence is that it is not possible to solve fundamental problems in Turkey without the AKP's energy policy -- based on renewable energy -- based on energy policies such as the sun, wind, geothermal. Sadly, the AKP continues to insist on nuclear power plants, thermal plants, and HES. So, why are we so against it? So, there are two key dimensions to our objections to these forms of energy, the thermal power plant, nuclear or HES. First, it clears the way for as much privatisation as possible, and it assesses privatisation through labour exploitation, in exchange for affordable labor, to provide the equity owners. The second is ecological destruction. I mean, we don't object to human life, we don't disagree with the fact that it's based entirely on an understanding of how to disrupt the ecosystem without contributing to natural life. Now, on one hand, labor exploitation, privatisation, ecological destruction, and, as a result of that, the public's inflated bills. Well, of course we can't approve of them. Look, there's been a 88 per cent price increase during the AKP period on electricity bills alone during a four-year period. So, we think it's impossible to make any progress with these kind of palliative solutions. Look, with your policies, you've turned our country into a HES dump, so you've built a HES on where there's a stream running, and you've wiped out everything that belongs to the living. Mr. Bayraktar of the AKP, who was in the previous cabinet, said that at the last stage, these things would not happen, and you're right, we're ruining small streams. I mean, there's still no point in insisting on it when there's a reality that even a cabinet minister accepts. It is said that 10 per cent of the current energy deficit will not be met by the HES (HES) and all NGOs, or leaders of all opinion, who are experts in the work. Although the amount of energy that will be provided from there can be easily repaired only at the point of regeneration of energy transmission lines and infrastructure failures, unfortunately, your attitude remains. Of course, as long as your anti-study, anti-Ecology, anti-Ecosystem, anti-human life policies continue, we will continue to raise our objections. We've been working for, like, 16, 17 hours straight. Today, I wish you'd brought a bill, a bill of law, which is based on people, but was worth so much hard work, we'd come home with the conscience of saying, "We've done a good job for the public, not in the name of Rant."
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0633par0362	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mevlüt Karakaya Adana MP who wants to talk about the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0634par0366	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I bid you all good morning. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on the motion given regarding the current proposal. Dear MPs, in fact, the interim Article 20, which is part of Article 26 of the bill, is an arrangement that guarantees a real collection. According to this arrangement, 17 articles of non-responsive conduct are carried out concerning distribution, counter reading, retail service, transmissions and missing-and-missing costs, cases and applications, according to the regulation. So, in the process, it's not just a matter that will guarantee the delays in collection, but it's not something that will contribute to the market. Criticism has been made on the subject of privatisation from this platform. The privatisation issues of the sector are not very different from the other areas. In fact, some issues have been tried to be overlooked here because of the industry's unique property, its complexity. In a recent appeal to privatisation, Mr. Minister , it is not privatisation, but the practice here does not require a sale of goods and assets, and there is no need for a evaluation for that. They said that the Privatisation Administration provided this item and this part. So, first of all, let's say that there's a value movement here, that there's some kind of economic value being left out. This may not be a sale, it may not require a cash sale, it may be in the same form of exchange, it may be in the form of a trade of interest, but as a result, there is an economic value in exchange for an economic value, the field, the field that is left, has the capacity to create revenues, and that the income capacity that has been created has to be expressed at current value. There is surely a value that we can express as an alternative to the change of economic value or as an opportunity cost, depending on which we can produce clear economic losses and gains. Yes, the electricity market, when compared with other markets, is both complex as well as as as the product's structure; it has a complex structure; it's the same thing in product costing; it's the same thing in price creation. We're loading the missing and illegal costs to citizens today, yes, as a way of lowering the costs and operating costs that have been created here, this law has been passed to the citizens to finance it, and unfortunately, you've seen fit to burden the citizens with it. But other valuable lawmakers, the other cost, the cost that we're describing here as "stranded cost" is actually reflected in these bills, as well as in the fact that privatisations can't be done properly, generally because we don't care about capacities and cost loads coming from around here, and we don't plan properly. And by pointing out that, he says good morning to all of you again, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0635par0373	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Members of parliament, there is a request for an open vote on the interim Article 20 of the 26th Article. Now, I'm going to read the names of the clients, the MPs, and I'm going to find out if they're present at the General Assembly. Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. Levent Gök, Ankara? Here. Tacettin Bayır, İzmir? Here. Tahsin Tarhan, Bigeli? Here. Cetin Ağık, Kayseri? Here. Bulent Bektasoglu, Giresun? Here. Kazim Lion, Denizli? Mr. lion is gone. Mehmet Ahrazoglu, Hatay? Mr. Ahrazoglu is here. Senal Sarıhan, Ankara? Here. Didem Ergin, Istanbul? Mr. Engin is here. Necati Yilmaz, Ankara? Mr. Yilmaz is here. Mehmet Gökdağ, Gaziantep? Here. Nihat Green, Ankara? Here. Irfan Copper, Isparta? Here. Murat Amir, Ankara? Here. Bulent Kuşoglu, Ankara? No. Mahmut Tanal, Istanbul? Here. Kamil Aydın, Erzurum? Here. Ismail Faruk Aksu, Istanbul? Here. Kadir Koçdemir, Bursa? Here. Sure Haluk Ayhan, Denizli? Here. Mevlüt Karakaya, Adana? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. An open vote will be carried out by electronic device, according to the decision taken. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote of the Interim Article 20, under Article 26 of Law Proposal 312: [[x]] Interim Article 20 of Article 26 of the proposal has been accepted. There are three motions on Article 27: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we provide and offer the requirements for changing the terms "or" of Article 8 of Turkish Oil Law No. 6491, which is dated 30/05/2013 in Article 27 of Law Proposal 312. Kazim Arslan Tacettin Büyır İrfan Bakr Ahmet Akın Tahsin Tarhan Kemal Zeybek Cetin Arık Özkan Yım Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Erkan Aydın Ömer Fethi Gürer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the term "two" in Article 27 of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws under Power Market Law 312. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Simsek Ruhi Ersoy Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and offer to remove the clause from the text of the item in the first sentence of Article 27 of the Law Proposal 312 that is being discussed. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıdirm Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Alican Önlü Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0636par0441	We don't agree either, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0637par0442	Let's get him to read the motive.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0635par0443	I'm reading the reason: The main causes of life loss in the mines in Turkey are known to have caused leaks and explosions due to methane gas. Soma, the greatest mining disaster in our history, is the most painful example of this situation. Mining engineers and relevant experts point out the extraction of methane gas before coal. This is basically the safest way to extract methane gas, the work that will be conducted on Earth. The motion aims to bring methane gases to the ground. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose a change of terms in the terms of Article 27 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under Power Market Act 312. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISSION PRESIDENT ZIYA ALTUNYALDİ (Connya) We commend you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0638par0454	We appreciate it, too, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0639par0455	Motive...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0635par0456	I'm having it read. With this arrangement, the Council of Ministers has been authorized to increase the percentage of state shares from methane to quadruple. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and offer with respect to change the need for changes in terms of Article 8 of Turkish Petroleum Law 6491, which is dated 30/5/2013, in the form of Article 8/1 of the Law Proposal No. 312. Kazim lion and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0640par0467	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0641par0468	Motive...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0635par0469	I'm having it read. The material text is intended to be clearer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the amendment to Article 27, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 27th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 28th article.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0642par0475	We're drawing our motion, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0635par0476	The motion for the National Movement Party has been withdrawn. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and demand that the declaration of the Law Proposal 312 be changed from the date on the 28th article of the current Law Proposal. İdris Bauken Berdan Özturk Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmoud Celadet Bagpipe Tunceli Bitlis Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 28 of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws under Power Market Law 312. ▪ This law will take effect at the end of the fifth year, following the date of publication. Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan İrfan Bakır Bulent Yener Bektaşoğlu Tacettin Bayır Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0643par0494	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0635par0495	Anyone want to talk about the motion? No. The proposal is clearly in violation of the Constitution with many articles, which will cause irreparable damage if it is adopted and is enforced. The proposal has been envisioned to postpone its implementation for five years, considering market conditions, constitutional principles, relevant legislation and environmental rights, division of property, forces, rights-seeking freedom, legal state and social state. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and demand that the declaration of the Law Proposal 312 be changed from the date on the 28th article of the current Law Proposal. İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0644par0507	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0635par0508	I'm reading the reason: The proposal aims to make the text of matter more clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 28th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 29 of the same nature.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0645par0514	We're rolling.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0635par0515	The National Movement Party has withdrawn its motion.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0646par0516	Mr. President, we're pulling back.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0635par0517	Peoples' Democratic Party has also withdrawn its motion. There is a motion on Article 29 in this case...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0647par0519	CHP's shooting too, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0648par0520	We'll do it, too, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0647par0521	CHP did too, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0649par0522	I can't hear you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0648par0523	Let's do it.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0649par0524	The Republican People's Party Group is also filming. There are no more motions on Article 29. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 29 is accepted. Before we vote on the whole proposal, I will make a pledge to the two MPs who, according to Article 86 of the Civil Code, want to express the color of the game. Lehte, Mr. Necip Tetovo of İzmir. Here you go, Mr. Shield.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0650par0531	Mr. President, Mr. Court, the highly valued members of our political parties, the esteemed MPs, sir, I respectfully salute everyone. Good morning, and I wish you good morning, Sheriff. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Sir, we've been here 18 hours. Of course, after 18 hours, I'm one of the last speakers. What do they say? The last one to die is the last one to die, but remember, the last one to say it is the last one. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My first words to Mr. Tacettin Bayir, our friend, who spoke to us on this stand, but was not able to speak.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0651par0536	Look, don't, don't!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0650par0537	Please, sir... In his speech, Tacettin Bayır said: "Mr. Necip Shield doesn't understand these things. I know him from the trading room, he didn't study well.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0651par0539	Second one's right, first one's wrong.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0650par0540	He knew him from the Chamber of Commerce, he was a regular member, and I was president of him for 15 years; one. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Secondly, sir, Tacettin Ridge spoke of the efficiency of the wind and the sun. So I said, from there, from where I am, to their capacity, to calculate the value of production and efficiency. Yeah, that's what he said to us. I'm Tacettin Beye...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0651par0543	The Izmirans are asleep.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0650par0544	I say, while you were in your home, in your pajamas, watching TV, I was in Urla, Karaburun, and I was in the fountain measuring the wind.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0652par0546	So you're always wandering around the fountain?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0650par0547	Mr. Mesut Yilmaz was the Prime Minister of Cumhur Ersumer Energy -- I put this on the shore -- the late Ersin Faralyan Minister of Energy.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0653par0548	He's been all over the place.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0650par0549	A large company was founded in İzmir, 1992, not in İzmir, but in Turkey, ENDA Energy Distribution. Right now, I'm a co-founder of a company that produces 264 megawatts. I was a board member until yesterday, but when I became a congressman, we resigned. I'm telling you this once, who knows, who doesn't, let this out.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0654par0551	There's bullying.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0655par0552	By God, Izmir's fight is back on.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0650par0553	Now, my dear friends, I'm going to cut to the chase. As I said, there was a law in 2001 about this energy market, and then there was another law in 2013. We're doing additions to this law today -- this law's number is 6446. I want to say that in Turkey today we produce 74,039 megawatts of energy.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0656par0555	Who makes it?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0650par0556	Just so we're clear, keep this in mind, my friend himself. As we produce these 74,000 megawatts, we have 37.9 percent of natural gas, 28 percent of coal, 25.8 percent from hydraulics, only 4.4 percent from wind and others; this contains geothermals, which is worth 8 per thousand. We produce 260 billion kilowatts of electricity. And the money Turkey paid for all its imports for energy supply -- I received a note from our Minister yesterday -- is $38 billion. The highest import energy is natural gas, and the money we pay for natural gas is 11 to 12 billion dollars per cubic meter.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0656par0557	You've studied, you've studied.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0650par0558	Now, the purpose of this law is Turkey... do you remember there was an ad that was as old as I was? No color TV, no black and white TV. On TV, black and white, the commercial said: "Schaub Lorenz." (Laughter) (Laughter) There was another ad, one minute: image in the moment: Nastional. There was another ad: Are our money going up? Isocam! How was he shouting, and how was Isocam coming, and how his losses prevented the fugitives?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0657par0559	There's no advertising on the council bench.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0650par0560	This is the law that allows this country to stay in Turkey for money to escape from the use of local resources, from the use of them, from the use of them. I vote yes to this law. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But, of course, I listened to my friends here excitedly, excitedly, listening to my friends. Thank you, our Mercury friend is in the back. We don't have an enlightened geothermal friend. Mr. Tacettin Ridge is here. I see they're against the dam, against the wind, against the geothermal, against nuclear energy.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0658par0565	Thank you, Mr. Shield.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0650par0566	Is there anything you're not against? 260 billion kilowatts of electricity...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0659par0567	We love you, Papa Necip!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0650par0568	Let's make a battery that will produce 260 billion kilowatts of electricity.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0659par0569	Okay, that's it, time's up.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0660par0570	Mr. Shield, please... Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0661par0572	Sir, I vote yes. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0660par0575	Mr. Bay...
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0662par0576	Mr. President, the speaker friend used my name personally to make a serious taunt. I demand a say in Article 69.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0660par0577	Mr. Ridge, I'll give you my word, but before you do, I have to remind you of something. Mr. Shield said something: "The last person to speak will remember what he said." Did he give you a pass?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0662par0578	No, he wasn't, then he wasn't. Yeah, that's exactly what happened.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0660par0579	Well, here you go, Mr. Bayer, I give you my word on the bullying.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0663par0580	But he's not about to challenge the new tease.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0660par0581	I mean, I don't know, it's the last one to talk.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0663par0582	Well, look at him!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0664par0585	Dear friends, really, I've worked with my brother, Smyrna MP Necip Tetovo, for many years in the trade room, but he didn't know me well enough. First of all, let's correct his statement while you're walking around in your pajamas in the morning.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0665par0586	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0664par0587	I don't wear pajamas, I usually sleep in shorts, Izmir boy. (Laughter) Let's fix that.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0666par0588	It's not like he's going into your bedroom.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0664par0589	Second: Mr. Secretary and Mr. Commissioner themselves have given me their thanks for our positive criticism during our break. I mean, I'd like to thank you, too.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0667par0590	You picked on Necip there, but you picked on him. He doesn't know. You said he didn't know.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0664par0591	But I'll tell you one thing for sure, I'm going to walk high in Izmir because I said no to this law, but I don't know how you're going to travel.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0667par0593	We always walk tall, we always walk white.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0664par0594	I wish you all good morning. Good luck with that, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0668par0596	Thank you, Mr. Ridge.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0669par0597	Sir, for the same reason I've been bullied, I want my word.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0668par0598	I can't hear you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0669par0599	Sir, for the same reason, I would like a word.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0668par0600	On what grounds, Mr. Horseman?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0669par0601	In response to the geothermal, the MP of Mersin also called my name.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0670par0602	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0671par0603	There's a lot of Mersin proteges.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0672par0604	Here you go, Mr. Horseman. Please do not challenge a new taunt, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0673par0607	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, yes, we are against nuclear power plants for thirty-five years.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0674par0609	You're against us, too.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0675par0610	You're against everything, is there anything you're not against?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0673par0611	From here, I salute the people of Mersin, who have opposed the construction of nuclear power plants in Mersin for thirty-five years. The people of Mersin will not build you this nuclear power plant. Mr. Secretary, don't waste government money, don't play with people. You won't be able to do it in spite of everyone. Look, in our research at Mersin, about 80 percent of the people who live there say no to the nuclear power plant.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0676par0613	We'll do it in spite of you, we'll do it in spite of you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0673par0614	Do a survey, do a survey, and if the people say yes to the nuclear power plant, I promise you, I will never go on this stand again.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0677par0615	How many deputies do you have? How many deputies do you have in Mersin?
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0673par0616	But if the people of Mersin say we don't want a nuclear power plant, for God's sake, don't do it in spite of the people. It's the plague of great friends. Look, as a pediatrician, I'm telling you, the plague of this business is great. We'll make up for all the corruption there, we'll replace the trees that have been cut down there, don't worry, they'll all come and do temporary work; we can't cure children who are going to have cancer there; we can't ease the pain of the birth mothers there, if there's an explosion or any accident, we can't remove the damage that's going to happen to all of Turkey and its neighbours. Put your hand on your conscience, use your vote that way. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0678par0619	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Against him, İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0679par0626	Dear President, dear lawmakers, good morning to you all. I wish everyone a happy weekend, a happy future. Dear friends, what does this law bring? With this proposal of law -- of course, we've always told the Minister with questions -- distribution companies won't go after thieves who steal electricity. Second thing: Electric companies will not invest in preventing loss of power lines. What is it? We call it the missing and the fugitives, we divide the losses: one is missing from the transmission lines we call technical loss; the second is the fugitives. The losses in Turkey are 7 and 8 in the world, 4 and 7 in the world. However, due to the lack of investment, the costs are reduced while the privatisation of these costs is not done enough, so these costs cost the public. He's got to go over political power on this one. A second issue: The state of the Republic of Turkey is a social law state. But there's a national recipe, there's a regional recipe. The difference between the national recipe and regional definition is this: this is not an acceptable situation, at one time, when our Constitution allows us to do this because electricity prices in the poor may be cheaper, and the cost may be lower. I'm also a member of consumer associations, and I'm still a member. We, as a member of consumer associations, would like to see this as consumers, and it's not past its time, so here's what we propose: Five electric pencils -- missing, illegal, distribution, delivery, retail sales services and counter-reading costs -- cannot be taken from electrical subscribers in accordance with the Supreme Court decisions. Our second amendment proposal from consumers is returned ten years back, with 18 per cent of the VAT from commercial interest, which has been illegally collected under the name of loss, illegal, distribution, delivery, retail sales service and meter reading costs. Our third offer is free or low electricity to subscribers who are poor, who have no income, or who have no income, according to the right to satisfy the basic needs of consumers from their universal rights. These three proposals should be in accordance with both human and social state principles. Now, the cost of illegal electricity is to be taken from honest, honest, paying citizens. Of course, we have friends who are lawyers among us, and since Roman law, there is a principle that these immoral procedures are invalid. Why? Now, our precious muft is here on my left-hand side, no matter what religion, no matter which religious scripture, is it a crime or a sin to steal? My dear Mufti, what do you think of this? [[Laughing from the lines of the AK PARTY]] Well, if theft is a crime according to every religion, according to every scripture, then it's a crime, and it's immoral. Well, it's immoral, it's unprofitable, it's against all legal regulations, it's against all religious provisions, but it's still accepted, dear friends. There's nothing acceptable about it. This provision violates the principle of discrimination of the European Convention on Human Rights of Europe, which we have signed under Article 2 of our Constitution, Article 10, Article 56, Article 172, Article 36, and Article 36, under Article 90 of our Constitution. Therefore, my request from you: The 88th and 87th articles of our Civil Law allow it again, and it can be corrected for these reasons. I'm glad I could convince you.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0680par0637	No.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0681par0638	You haven't done it in five years and you haven't convinced me again, Tanal. You talk nonsense every time, it's empty. You're just talking nonsense.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0679par0639	If I can't convince you, either I need to work a little harder, or you guys need to read a little more.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0681par0641	No matter how hard you work, it's no use.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0679par0642	Thank you all. Have a nice day.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0681par0643	It won't help, Tanal, it won't help!
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0682par0644	Mr. Mahmut, work with my mufti teacher a little longer.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0683par0645	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. The negotiations of the proposal are complete. I'll submit the whole proposal to your votes, but there's a request for an open vote on all of them. So now, I'm going to read the names of the client lawmakers, and I'm going to determine whether they're present at the General Assembly. Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. Levent Gök, Ankara? Here. Tacettin Bayır, İzmir? Here. Tahsin Tarhan, Bigeli? Here. Cetin Ağık, Kayseri? Here. Bulent Bektasoglu, Giresun? Here. Kazim Lion, Denizli? No. Senal Sarıhan, Ankara? Here. Mevlüt Karakaya, Adana? Here. Didem Engin, Istanbul? Here. Necati Yilmaz, Ankara? Here. Mehmet Gökdağ, Gaziantep? Here. Sure Haluk Ayhan, Denizli? Here. Seyit Grandson, Army? No. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu, Hatay? Here. Nihat Green, Ankara? Here. Murat Amir, Ankara? Here. Mahmut Tanal, Istanbul? Here. The Horseman, Mersin? Here. Kamil Aydın, Erzurum? Here. Ismail Faruk Aksu, Istanbul? Here. Kadir Koçdemir, Bursa? Here. Irfan Copper, Isparta? We found 20, and Mr. Copper is here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. An open vote will be carried out by electronic device, according to the decision taken. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote of the entire Law Proposal 312 rows: [[x]] The offer has been accepted and legalized. Good luck with that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At a meeting of the Council of Advice 4/6/2016 on Saturday, the following proposal was approved by the General Assembly. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The General Assembly was advised not to meet on Tuesday (June 7, 2016) and on Saturday (June 4, 2016) and Sunday (June 5, 2016), which was agreed to work according to the earlier decision. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. The Minister has a request for a thank-you speech due to the legality of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0684par0714	Dear President, dear lawmakers, we've passed about 16 hours. Although a work process began on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, starting from Friday morning, ending this morning, I think, for Turkey, what I think is very important to the energy markets is that our bureaucrats, especially in the process of preparation -- thank you very much for all the support you've given to pass this law here for hours. Of course, as the ruling party, I would also like to thank our ruling party's esteemed representatives for supporting you here for more than 18 hours of sacrifice. It is my wish that God, the Lord of God, grant this country much better, much more blessed services during our Ministry of Law, to open the way for good services. Again, before you take too much time, I'd like to thank you very much by looking into the eyes of our deputies waiting for the flight clock. I say God be with you, and I wish you a good day.
tbmm-2016-06-03sit09spe0685par0718	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, I wish that the month of Ramazan, which will begin on Monday, will bring blessings to our MPs, to our employees of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to our country and to our nation. We are starting talks with the Court of State and the Foreign Commission Report, which has been ranked in the 2nd place between the Republic of Turkey and the Kingdom of Belgium on June 2, 1987, to confirm the Protocol on Double Taxation Agreement on Taxes signed in Ankara. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission was not to be found after this, the decision was made to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Wednesday (June 8, 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00. I say good morning to you all, and I wish you a good day.
