tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 47th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, today is February 28th. Nineteen years ago, a black mark fell on our political history. I salute the victims of February 28th from here, and no matter what they call it, I reject any interference in civil politics, democratic politics. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) I wish my country's political history would never be blackened again, and I believe it will be. Congressmans, before we begin the talks, for today's speciality, I'm going to give a minute to my first 12 fellow lawmakers who have entered the system. My co-chair friends have a say in this. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0002par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. On February 28, 1997, as a result of those unfortunate days of Turkey's life in Turkey, unfortunately, the competent staffs have been eliminated and many others have been brought to duty. In this regard, all sanity must be united against any further intervention in democracy in order for Turkey to lead a life within the normal democratic process. I, again, condemn what happened on February 28th, and believe that in order for Turkey not to experience a new February 28th, we must all do our part together.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0003par0014	Thank you. Mr. Tor...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0004par0017	And on this anniversary of February 28th, I condemn these antidemocratic practices. However, it is also useful to point out that by learning from these antidemocratic practices, I think that power should be more tolerant, more reasonable, more just. On this occasion, I wish that Turkey would never live on February 28th again, never again challenge antidemocratic practices.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0005par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. As members of a political party that has suffered the greatest damage from coups and revolutions, we condemn the whole coup d'état. February 28th, and we want all of those who have made similar initiatives brought to trial. Sadly, today, unfortunately, we are also witnessing that those who complain about February 28th have not started any criminal proceedings concerning the February 28th. And we strongly condemn that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0006par0024	Thank you. Mr. Aksu...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0007par0027	Thank you. On the anniversary of February 28th, I also condemn attempts at Parliament. I wish the antidemocratic practices would never happen again. But I also condemn this kind of coup attempt to gain power by making tools, and also on April 27th. And I say it is vital that the Turkish Grand National Assembly be open, that it remains open, that it remains open. I also offer my respects by expressing that democracy is a way of life for us.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0006par0029	Thank you. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0008par0032	Thank you, Mr. President. We also condemn February 28th as post-modern coup to the impact literature, but the greatest lesson we're going to learn from February 28th is to hope that those in power, those in the hands of men, do not fall prey to a polarizing, alternating, ignoring practice. On the other hand, we also condemn the massacre in Hodja. About a hundred years ago, we saw a new mesem made by Hnçak and Taşnak gangs, especially in the Eastern Anatolian region, and in the postmodern context of Hoshlı. So, once again, as in the past, we've lived with this metric that the imperial forces have their accounts on our country, especially in our geostrategic regions, where we're bordering. Hopefully, after that, such antisections will never be seen again, especially to our relatives. And I hope we take the necessary steps in this matter, with respect.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0009par0035	Thank you. Mr. Coachdemir...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0010par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. On February 28th, I condemn the intervention of the will of the community, the will of the nation. But after February 28th, public opinion is created through symbols to end the shadowing of the fundamental issues of society, in an untamed, untamed, unthreated, and untamed communication environment, in a real democracy, in which we, our children, and our grandchildren are doing their best to live together, I offer you respect.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0009par0040	Thank you. Mr. Kavakcı...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0011par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. On the anniversary of February 28th, I'd like to remind you today of the May 2, 1999 -- nameless coup. In person of an elected MP, the women-men who voted for him in Turkey, the campaign to report against many people who were not covered, has ended on June 2, 1999, the campaign to report the attack began on 2 May 2015, but with non-concealed MPs and men's deputies who also took the oath. I pray that these days will never happen again, and I want to say that we will do our best. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0012par0046	Thank you. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0013par0049	Mr. President, the biggest problem Turkey has is terrorism. Talks with the PKK are often on the agenda and discussed in our General Assembly. Now, I'm going to ask you the following questions about these allegations: Does the prime minister of the period know about the meeting known as the oslo meeting? Is the organization aware of its actions? Have these actions been reported to the security forces? Have some of the forces within the MIT reported to the members of the organization that the security forces will perform operations against the KCK? Is MIT involved in the adoption of the ACK (KCK) as a side by Turkey? Did the MIT play any role in communication between Ocalan and the organization? Is there any information on the state borders proposed by the CENT? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0014par0052	Thank you. Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0015par0055	Mr. President, thank you. The question proposals we've been given by the government have been answered or answered by the government, either past the deadline and the agenda. It is the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to ensure that these questions are answered. According to the Turkish Parliament's 24th Legislature report, 8.635 verbal questions were submitted during the 24th term, only 2,134 of which were answered, 75 per cent were not answered. During the same period, 68,784 written question motions were submitted, which were answered during the period of 13.970, and the rest were not answered. Will you take measures to ensure that our people, as chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, will fully exercise their control over lawmakers, or will the AKP government not like control, sees itself above everything, and we are in that understanding, there is no need to be audited? Do you agree?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0016par0058	Mr. Filter...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0017par0060	Mr. President, yes, today is February 28th, to our member of parliament, elected by the nation's votes, out! Out! Their voices are still in our ears. We have the honor of living these days as representatives of the nation, without the headscarf-open distinction from those said to last a thousand years. Although February 28th is against the headscarf, it is actually against the development of Turkey through the headscarf and through the woman. We all complain of coups and the constitution of coups. Therefore, I believe that all parties must act together in building a new constitution. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0018par0063	Thank you, lawmakers. Anyone who wants to hear from the group's vice presidents... Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0019par0067	Mr. President, thank you. We wish everyone a good morning. February 28th is a very important anniversary in Turkey's history. For example, the coup d'état of September 12th is the year Kenan Evren would become Chief of Staff in 1978. It is the date of the arrest and arrest of 12 students who opened the banner at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 1996, and the date of the release of Reza Zarrab (Riza Zarrab) after the 17-25 December operation, and the release of the National Security Council in 1997 and the Republican People's Party Group... We want to make it clear that as the Republican People's Party Group, which is directly or indirectly trying to hit democracy, giving all kinds of direction, against all kinds of constraints, we hope that what happened on that day should never happen again, that all politicians who were victims at that time, all the academics, all the academics, all the businessmen who were victims at that time, should contribute to democracy, not be able to walk away from democracy in any way. The House has a self-criticism to do here. Of course, given the February 28th process and the continuation, the founders of the Justice and Development Party talked about taking off a shirt when they went into another party construction after that process. Is February 28th against new shirt holders or those who insist on your shirt? Is the Justice and Development Party here today the party of those who resist the February 28th process, or the party of those who evolved on February 28th and those who turned on it in another political direction? We leave him to the political historians, to the sociologists, to the scientists who will analyze him. We're hoping that if they're in power, they'll take power, if they're in the local government, they'll continue their duties, protect newspaper corners, because they've written in the paper, because of their political opinion. This Parliament should make a self-criticism. For example, Genghis Çaldar, Nazlı Ilıcak, Umur Talu, Ali Bulaç are victims of February 28th, but today they express to themselves that they feel the pressures of similar editions are worse than those days. Let's think about it from this point of view. Isn't it also another blow to put pressure on power when it's taken, to try to push the opposite side out of public life, the press, the think life, to use that power? Finally, Mr. President, February 28th is another anniversary -- the newest. We lost a great master who was fed by the thousands of years of culture of Anatolian, whose novels were translated into many languages of the world, who was the same age as our republic, and the great Chinese of our literature, Yasar Kemal. We won't forget the great man with his tongue, his posture, his love of man, the great man with the great heart who showed us all that another world was possible, his loud voice that crossed the ages. I say that in the universe, man takes up not the size of his body, but the size of his heart. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0020par0075	Thank you very much. We, too, cherish and cherish the memory of Dear and Dear Yasar Kemal, honor and honor, and say that books are in our care. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0021par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, welcome back.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0020par0084	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0021par0085	I wish all my friends good morning. Today, February 28, 1921, I'd like to begin with a reminder of the introduction of my speech, as well as the adoption of the first budget in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and today we're still negotiating a budget. And on February 28th, on a day that is identified by the concept of "darbe," our dear fellow lawmakers express their views. We, the National Movement Party, are better than the worst democracy than the best revolution. We remember the word of our late Prime Minister, Alparslan Turkeş, who said, "The coup attempt is consistent with all the blows." May 27th, March 12th, September 12th, February 28th... and now you can't remember February 28th and not mention April 27th. May we all make a reminder to the coup d'état of April 27th, and have a common opinion on that matter. And how sincere are the anti-inflicted rhetorics of those who are the products of the coups, which we also need to discuss because in this anti-fact, I think, the most important issue is minimal consistency. This minimum consistency must be achieved in a primitive way, and it must be opposed to all blows. Now I don't know the Constitution. Isn't that a coup? A president, a prime minister or a minister? This is definitely a coup. You have to stand up to them, too. I will not obey the Constitution, but make up the Constitution for me. It is also a coup attempt. Therefore, we must all oppose this together by being thorough, primitive, and consistent. Again, unfortunately, the terrorist attacks continue, and we have learned that the police vehicle has been attacked. One of our officers is a martyr and two of our officers are injured. As we pray for God's mercy to our martyrs, we pray for immediate healing to our wounded policemen. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. I offer you all love and respect with the determination to destroy this scourge of terror as soon as possible, as a nation. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0022par0092	Thank you. Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0023par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0022par0097	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0023par0098	And for the first time in your session, I wish you the best of luck in your new assignment.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0022par0099	Thank you very much. I wish you the same blessings.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0023par0101	Thank you. Yes, about the coup d'état of February 28th, which is actually very close to February 28th, and we've had a coup in this particular process with an approach about women who know those processes... that allows them to expel the headscarf from universities and the headscarf... which is called violence against women and ignores the woman's will. This impact process, in fact, was a process where all right violations were revealed, and at the same time, we saw that Sincan was entered by tanks and cannons. This country is a country that's going through a lot of coups, but even now we're still going through a process where we condemn and deny these past coups, and we're still in our cities today, in our cities, in our counties, in our cities, in tanks, in our cities, in our cities, in our cities, in our tanks, shooting at the people. So I'm going to say once again that there's been a coup in 2016. Because we see tanks and heavy artillery firing on the people, on Tyre, on Cizre, on Silopi, on İdil, on Derek. This is a coup process, which is a violation of rights. So beyond looking at what politicians need to do in a place where politics should solve the problem, to slaughter people with military coups or tanks, balls, that is also a situation in 2016, Turkey. Burning people in basements of violence and actually spreading their funerals all over the provinces is actually a coup attempt to prevent people from even reaching their own funeral. That's how we perceive it, that we condemn all of these blows as one. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0024par0105	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0025par0108	Mr. President, thank you. And I wish that the next budget talks would bring blessings to our country and our nation above all else. Of course, today is February 28th, February 28th, the 19th year of the postmodern coup. On this occasion, I would like to point out that in previous times, particularly the May 27 conflict, the March 12th chief, again, the 1980 conflict, and the recent testimony of the 27 April e-mighty, travel actions, including the 17-25 December operations, I have again condemned the nation's will to halt democracy in an attempt to prevent democracy, once again and again today. These coup attempts are not only wasteful of human resources in our country, but attempts to cut down on the economy, including social, political, democracy, to waste every area, to throw a country's development, change, transformation back decades. I'd like to stress once again that I'm particularly condemning all the blows in that sense, that it should be the will of the nation. When February 28th took place, the mindset of February 28th was said to last a thousand years. But thankfully, our discreet nation, who had learned from the past, had suffered a great deal of pain, has once again shown that it must be the will of the nation. I, in particular, would like to stress to the point of how our human resources were squandered on February 28th. Yes, February 28 has caused a significant inequality, especially in the field of education, especially among our women, which has resulted in a result that will lead to inequality, with the heads open between women and the heads open. The result, of course, has caused many of our sisters, especially our sisters, to be deprived of school, education, and that is a waste of a very important human resource. In that sense, again, on the occasion of February 28th, I say that I condemn all the blows, that they have passed on to our history as a black mark, a black mark on our democracy. I'm telling our country that we need to make sure that in this period of power, in this period of our nation's consent, all the steps taken at the point of democratic rights and freedoms will move our country much further in the coming period. Sovereignty belongs to the people of the world, and to continue this way from now on, we parliamentarians have a very important task to do. I hereby wish to all my citizens, police, and soldiers, who have fought terror strongly in the cities where curfews have been imposed in Eastern, Southeast Anatolia. And I ask God's mercy on our martyrs. This land of Turkey, this land of our country, was not easily won, and it is clear once again that it is not easy to ensure the unity of our land, the unity of our land, and the terror of our lives. Hopefully, in this struggle, in his righteous struggle, in his legitimate struggle, and in his legal struggle, our nation will win; it is the will of the nation that counts. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0026par0117	Thank you, too.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0027par0118	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0026par0119	Congressmans, I applaud from the heart the Turkish Grand National Assembly's stand against February 28th. In fact, I'm saying today's view of the Court is the biggest answer to February 28th, and I'm going on the agenda.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0027par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0026par0122	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0027par0123	I was going to make a brief statement, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0026par0124	You must not have been in the system.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0027par0125	I'm in, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0026par0126	Then, in the later stages of our work, I promise you, I'll move on to the agenda now, Mr. Yasar. Congressmans, today three women run the House, and we all wish all of us good work. [[Applause]] According to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2016 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2014 Central Management Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll be doing round two interviews today. In the second round, there is the Undersecretary of Treasury, Banking Editing and Control, Capital Market Board, General Directorate of Foundations, the President of Afet and Emergency Management, the President of Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, the President of Foreign Turks and Associations, Ataturk Culture Centre, Ataturk Cultural Centre, Turkish Language Institution, the budget and final accounts. 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2016 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2014 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Presidency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2014 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2014 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2016 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkish Historical Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Administration Final Account for 2014 Commission? Here. Government? Here. Members of parliament, lawmakers who want to ask questions about the budgets involved in this tour must enter the system. In the second round, I read the names of the members who were spoken for by their groups and individuals: On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP; Arzu Erdem, İstanbul MP; İsmet Büğataman, Bursa MP; Ruhi Ersoy, Osmaniye MP. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Ziya Pir, Diyarbakır MP; Müslüm Doğan, İzmir MP; Erol Dora, Mardin MP; Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, Iğdır MP; Kadir Yıldırım, Siirt MP. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mustafa Savaş, Aydın MP; Şaap Kavioğlu, Bayburt MP; Recai Berber, Manisa MP; Israel Barmaşla, Artvin MP; Yusuf Akıt, Tokat MP; Tamer Dağlı, Adana MP; Atay Sışı, Antalya MP; Ayşe Keşar, Düzce MP; Alpaslan Kavcıoğlu, Nigde MP; Osman Boyraz, İstanbul MP; Mehmet Erdoğan, Gaziantep MP; Sabri Özturk, Giresun MP; Hakan Seroğlu, İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; Hasan Bassın, MP; Hasan Bassun Bası, İstanbul MP; Osman Öğıp; İstanbul MP. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Aykut Erdoğdu, İstanbul MP; Sibel Özdemir, İstanbul MP; Serkan Topal, Hatay MP; Emre Bridgelü, Tekirdağ MP; Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan, Ankara MP; Mustafa Tuncer, Amassian MP; Burcu Koksal, Afyonkarahisar MP; Tanju Özcan, Bolu MP and Bült Öz, Çanakkale MP. On behalf of the individuals, in favor of Salih Çetinkaya, Kırşehir MP; on the contrary, Ruhi Ersoy, Osmaniye MP. Now, let's start with the National Movement Party Group. The first speaker is Antalya MP Mehmet Günal. Your time is 23 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0028par0185	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. February 28th has spoken enough, our friends, but I'm sad to wake up in the morning with the news of the martyrs again. First of all, I'd like to begin by asking God's mercy for all our martyrs, especially today's, and all the ones we've lost in Hodja. Secondly, Mr. President said when he was counting the institutions -- and I promised him today -- that I would be undersecretary of the Treasury, Banking Organization and Control, the Capital Market Board -- but I turned around and looked, Mr. Minister of Finance, we don't have a minister of interest.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0029par0188	There are unrelated ministers. The ministers are indifferent, and the government is irrelevant.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0028par0189	Yes, so naturally he's going abroad as Secretary of the Treasury, but we're upstairs -- our Commissioner here -- have we changed it nine times, Mr. Coacher? I mean, according to the state of the ministers, we're also stellarizing the marshal, the Plan and Budget Commission, and we've changed ministries in that agenda change eight or nine times according to the ministers' schedule.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0029par0190	There's a government that doesn't take its own budget seriously.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0030par0191	Mr. Mehmet, our Finance Minister is there.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0028par0192	Thank you. I'm an economic bureaucrat, so don't worry, I know where the minister is looking. I'm also a money-bank teacher, and I know all about those institutions, and it's in your Prime Minister's department, so don't worry. Now, I said there for this: the Minister of Finance can't replace him. I mean, he can't keep it as a person -- because he's the former Minister of Finance -- and he can't keep it as an institution, everyone has a responsibility. I'm sorry, Mr. Agbal, but I told you yesterday as well as Mr. Agbal -- I can add him as well as Mr. Prime Minister -- after the speech he made the day before -- no matter how much you provoke Mr. Bostanci, I'm making a status assessment. It'd be nice to have him here today. The budget's been negotiated once. We've seen each other twice this year, there's been a temporary budget, but it's an exceptional situation, it's not something we do very often. For him, those programs would have to be moved. And while we're doing that, our friends are adjusting to that schedule, they can slide, they can set up institutions. Let's see, Mr. Agbal doesn't even respond fully to the issues about himself, and I don't know how he's going to respond to what's going on with Mr. Lightning, so we're going to look at the questions that we've asked over and over and over again. If we're responding to what we're talking about right now...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0031par0194	I'm not giving you the answers you want, so you're upset.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0028par0195	Look, he couldn't stand it, I told you, Mehmet Simsek couldn't take his place, so he wouldn't be thirsty, he wouldn't talk at all, and sometimes he won't even answer, he'll shut up, he'll be resourceful.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0032par0196	It's good to shut up or talk.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0028par0197	It's important to answer. He'll shut up, of course, but you have to answer the questions when the time comes. I've said this for you, from the beginning: I'm not going to do it like them. The reason I'm saying it is because the most fundamental principle of the National Movement Party is that my country and my nation, then my party, then me. So, really, if we're going to draw constructive conclusions from this budget here, if we're all going to go forward, if our country is going to solve problems, then we're going to discuss these questions, and you're going to get our opinions. The other day, Mr. Prime Minister said: "We are listening. We are listening." But you don't pay attention. Sometimes he can't even listen. Come on, today -- if you say so, if you're talking February 28th -- let's drop this populism. I'm going to make some status assessments first, and then I'm going to say some things about our solution proposals. Dear friends, the basic thing in the budget is that when we make a budget here, we put it on a target, it sits in macroeconomic balances. First, our friends, they're taking long-term demands on investment; then we're looking at what we're able to do; and then, according to this, there's a mid-term program and a financial plan, and then the government comes to parliament with a budget bill that fits. So, if now -- if you button the first button wrong... you know what they say -- if the goals you set in the first place are wrong, which one of them are you going to hit? I mean, there's no way we're going all the way down when we've got the button wrong.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0033par0201	Yeah, but how do you know it's wrong, Mr. Günal?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0028par0202	Now we're going to argue about it, whether it's wrong or not; I mean, how accurate the numbers are, what they are, what they're not. Now, here, dear friends, there's a lot of confusion in the concept and a lot of pink stories being told. Well, let's do politics on this. We don't say politics on that. If you don't accept this, you can't solve it, there's no solution without accepting the problem. Oh, we've got the minus, so let's do this. It's one thing to say, "We don't do anything wrong, we don't do anything wrong." It's another thing to say, "Everything's true." So we say that it's our job, too -- people who have given us opposition -- to tell you what's wrong, what's wrong, what's missing, to get the budget done more accurately, to get the right policies implemented. So from the beginning, all ministers do the same, including Mr. Agbal, did his presentation. I've looked at the whole world's growth, development... all he's trying to say is that all he's trying to say is that the world is shrinking, and we've grown that big, and we haven't grown that big. But there are countries where we are equal. Who are we going to compare it to? With developing countries. As a developing country, we have to make a comparison with them. So, we're looking at this in 2002, and it's like this in 2015. And my brother, 2002 is gone, and we're doing what budget? Oh, and do that right. So when you do something analytic, when you say do it right, you have to look at it in equal terms. Thirteen years, you said it was the fourteenth year. The other day, the subject of polymics was done here with Mr. Bostanci, and I responded to some of it. Let's look back. Where should we look? Let's take the average of developing countries with Turkey. Look at the thirteen years that have passed, and look at the thirteen years related to AKP. On average, our average between 1990 and 2002 is between Turkey and developing countries -- 0.4 points, when you look at it as a percentage. But when you look at 13 years of AKP power, there's more than a point minus 1.5. I mean, Turkey has grown less on average from similar countries. Now, it's one thing to get up and tell it like it's a success story. Oh, that's why it happened, that's why it happened, because there was this crisis, and there was this crisis, and we did it after it, and we couldn't do it. We don't object to it, we want to do it together. There was an election, the government was formed. Well, then, we'll do our opposition mission, and until the next election, power will do its job.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0033par0204	But let's build it together then...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0028par0205	Then we'll sit down... and I've told you so many times, and so do the ministers. You're looking at the first period, and we're looking at 2003-2007, which is a little bit more successful than the liquidity in the world, but when we look at the second period, we have an average growth rate with countries that are growing -2 points. So there's something wrong with our growth. So we're also going to discuss its content, its quality, but there's also a problem in numbers. So, we look back, and when we look at it in terms of income per person, we look at it as multiples in 2002 with these developing countries, 2.27 times when their per capita income is divided by our average. In 2008, it fell to 2.11 floors, 1.94 floors in 2014, from 2.27 to 1.94. When we look at the next process, there's a more dire situation because it's unexplainable, dear friends, these goals, I'm saying for him. You're looking at the Tenth Development Plan, and I told you yesterday, we're looking at the goals you set in 2015, 2011, and we're looking at the OVP, and unfortunately, this year, our friends haven't even set a target for a dollar. Why? Because it's falling. So, that's when, in the past, when you take advantage of this, if you take advantage of the idea of wooing, you have to hide it when it's bad for you. So we need to talk about everything clearly, and we did it in these areas where the comparison should be done in real numbers, and we couldn't do it in these areas. From time to time, Mr. Erdogan was also saying when he was Prime Minister, that we could not reduce unemployment, so if there is a father to bring down a man, let him come. Well, we need to discuss why you didn't fall, we need to discuss the problem of our growth. Look, we've been budgeting for nine years, and the first priority in all is reducing external dependency, reducing import dependency, returning to domestic inputs, domestic energy. Still, look at the priority program, look at the 64th Government Program, look at the emergency action plans you've set up, it's the same thing, my friends. We have to figure this out. So, Russia triggered the crisis, and suddenly we started looking for gas from right to left, we're looking for new export markets, and because Antalya is one of the most affected cities, we're looking at tourism, we're looking at people in agriculture; we need to think about them in advance, and we need to think about them in different markets as tourism and as agricultural trade, and we need to diversify our addiction. Thus, since these 2016 targets and 2018 targets are inconsistencies, they have already become tough. I'm sorry to say that I'm not happy that we've been so far away from our 2023 targets as part of a party that's first introduced their targets into government documents, into plans, into programs. The reason I'm saying this is so that we can close this up and take structural measures about these things, dear friends. We're suffering from this, we need to stay close to these goals, and we need to go back and do some work on it. Now, we're looking, on the one hand, why the growth? Why aren't our targets holding up? I'll tell you this: when you score half a point -- Mr. Finance Minister gave us their calculations in his speech, but now I don't have time -- I mean, you're aiming at four percent, where do you get the tax from here when it's down to 3.5 percent? So, if your goals are not realistic -- for example -- are coming in October -- Mr. Secretary will now do it for the first time, Mr. Lightning has done it a lot -- he makes a statement with the OVP: we have this budget deficit by the end of the year, load it on the citizens. ETV, private communication tax, we're giving them a raise -- I mean, taken over consumption -- we're giving them a raise in the consumption of citizens. Look, there's a lot of examples in the past years. When your target doesn't hold, you put it on a citizen's back. So we say, let's aim right. Let's get the revenues right, and let's make the expenses right. Let's inspect where there are currents, where there are fugitives, and make a better budget than there are. That's the basis of the budget: to use our resources to the most efficient areas, to ensure our country's development, development. For him, we are concerned about these matters. Now, if there's a problem with growth, if we have a sense of consumption-based, import-based growth, if we have a sense of housing, construction-based growth, we have to change that. If you get up and give Mr. Babacan a ticket for saying this... for example, I'm speaking metaphorically to Mr. Prime Minister: We know what Mr. Erdoğan, who was then Prime Minister, said, when he was called the "local lobby," I showed you here -- we have new deputies -- we have large headlines in the newspaper -- three of them, put together, and I don't tell the Prime Minister because I don't have time, but I'm not going to mention anything else, because I don't have time. Therefore, we must not expel the truthful from nine villages. When Mehmet came to the Lightning Plan and Budget Commission, we asked Mr. Minister if you were in favor of the tax pardon, didn't you? He said: "There's only one item there -- the one thing, the one thing -- was that he had to pay very little taxes from the businessmen -- we're against it as the Ministry of Finance, he's not out of our kitchen. What the Minister said, our fellow commissioners refused. Now, not like this. I mean, I didn't tell them. Look, I'm telling you what Mr. Babacan and Mr. Lightning said. Rightfully, they say that we need to take structural measures. It can't go on like this, it's not sustainable. What happens if we don't listen to them? Here, unemployment is still 10.5%. You were comparing it to 2002, and it stops when you get there. It was 10.3, although it was post-crisis, the year compared is still not true, but it is 10.5 percent of all manipulation, despite recognition, at the point where we are still coming. Then there's a structural problem. Here, what's that? This is what happens when we do an import-dependent, consumer-based, construction-based economy. We call it direct investment, we look at it, most about taking over, banks, malls. So, okay, it's not a portfolio investment, but if the stock you're buying is a share of what's available, and you're not making a new investment, I asked the ministers yesterday, and I'm asking them again: after an automotive in 2000 over $1 billion -- I'm not telling you the name -- tell me a new direct investment in Turkey. I'll apologize if there is. So, therefore, we have to accept them. We will improve the investment environment. We put it in every article, we put it in every program, we put it in every plan, but as a result, it doesn't happen. We're withdrawing some hot cash, we're getting some Gulf capital... things that are temporary, things that aren't sustainable... well, sometimes it helps to suppress, but as a result, we can't solve them. Dear friends, in the same way, we're looking at inflation. The previous day, a few days ago, the president of TÜSIAD says at a meeting, at an international meeting: the year 2016 will be a difficult year. Even the Central Bank has to revisit here after the OVP and budget targets are announced. We say 5 is 7.5; 8 is 8.5; 9 is 9. Now, rather than what the target is, if there's a target that doesn't hit the target all the time, then you have no credibility. The most important thing for the Central Bank is credibility, credibility. Then what's going on? The note explains, it's still on the same level. Why? International organisations do not believe in the proposed targets. Inflation in this way... okay, there's this kind of madness going on: let's say, sir, we're willing to settle for 7.5, we're willing to settle for 8. I guess they say, but then your creditability, your credibility is gone. What should we do? We need to make it healthier. E, on the other hand, Mr. President -- he went back into the ball again, I don't know if it's because of the direction of Hero Bulut, his Counsellor Cemil Bey, but he made another statement about interest. Dear friends, interest is a consequence. interest is not a reason. So if you're addicted to hot money, low currency lasts for years, high interest-based economy, if you think it's good, you can't reduce unemployment, you're addicted to imports, and you're dependent on interest. Why would he come if you didn't give him extra interest? I'm not saying it's true; it's a result. The environment where interest is reduced is what we call structural measures. You can't drop it with macro-cautious measures, micro-measures. The Central Bank has only one weapon if you write its duties as the first article. Its primary goal is the stability of the price. Its only weapon is interest. He can't bring it down when it's not available; there's no point in making a scapegoat. Oh, let's do a populist thing from there, sir, I swear, the President wants the prime minister's interest down, the Central Bank doesn't drop it... lt's very cheap. We need to do his infrastructure. What do we have to do? We've dropped the debt, sir, and we've dropped the 100 billion-dollar unemployment benefit fund and reduced the public debt to this much. It's not to show off. Either you don't save that money there, or you use it for the benefit of the unemployed, or you use it in programs to reduce unemployment. We said not to take it for a while. Look, encourage in tourism. We call it employment incentives in non-summer facilities... take it there. We gave it to GAP, we gave it to active labor programs. Or we say don't interrupt for a while, Mr. Secretary. 100 billion dollars, what are you going to do, who are you going to pay for it? Huh, what does it do? That's how it used to be -- the People's Bank is looking at me -- our former Deputy General Manager -- they're going to go to the Farm Bank, the People's Bank, and they're getting public papers, so we're taking public papers with the unemployment benefit fund's money, just so we can lower interest. Two: And as I said, we seem to owe less than 100 billion when the public drops out of its net debt; that's the sum of it. But the money's there; it's not our money, it's the unemployed's money, it's just the government responsible for the treasure management. We need to get this right. So, does he make it or doesn't he make it the treasure he's supposed to do? We ask the treasure: You make a lot of commitments. What are the risks of our commitments? What's the possible risk we're taking from guarantees of certain international investments in city hospitals alone? No, they're not involved. What about the private sector debt, what about the citizen's debt? They don't exist either. Now, dear friends, these are things we need to work on a little bit. We just dropped the public debt here, and we're less in debt. We can't get away with it. Look, in your 14th year of power, consumer loan debt has increased by 134 times, credit debt; credit card debt has increased by 17 times.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0034par0213	It's a good thing, though.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0028par0214	You know what's good and what's not paid, Mr. War. So when you put in the rise of the unrefundable, the citizen's consumer debt -- let me tell you, it went from 2.3 billion to over 300 billion. Now we're making these consumer societies, but what is the power to pay, what isn't? Credit card debt went from $4.3 billion to 77 billion. So, what's the total debt to the banks? It's a total of two out of 6.6 billion, and it's a debt of 382 billion citizens. Now, we say that the government... What's he spending it on, citizen? What does it support? Consumed. Well, how's he gonna pay for that? I thought if there was a Turkish-style attack, banks would be in a lot of trouble. And what I mean by that is that when the mortgages explode, when the housing industry explodes, the banks will be left with the mortgage repossessed with the inflated prices. It's a different Turkish version. We need to take precautions on that. No, no, no. Don't say that. What will the citizen pay for when his power is down?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0035par0217	Debt is a man's whip!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0028par0218	He gets carried away. We give them credit cards, we give them credits, they take them. So I'm calling from here to you. It's all here in numbers, but... I'll remind you of something else. Mr. Secretary isn't here, but the president of the BDDK, the president of the SPK, is here. Dear friends, when the incident with the People's Bank broke out, on December 17-25, I looked back into the archives, and the SPK also warned the BDK, zinhar, they say: "Sir, the banking sector is being damaged, and the production of such publications devastates the bank's reputation. Banking Law number 5411 begins with the 74th article, titled Protection of the Order, etc., and says: "If otherwise, it is useful to be reminded of the action given under the law and within the scope of authority. The SPK, as well as the BDK, makes such a statement because there are public companies. E, we had an argument at the Commission, the ministers haven't answered me yet. Why don't you do something like that about the Business Bank? Why is Bank still talking about Asia -- the day before, the day before -- we're going to take over. Isn't that the public company? If there's a group in you, they'll be punished.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0036par0222	They're manipulating, manipulation.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0028par0223	Or if you have an account with the Business Bank, you can tell them, but you have employees, you have citizens, the Business Bank is one of the engine stocks that's been in the stock market for years. Now, why do you allow the Bank of Business to wear down over your account with CHP? BDK, SEC, why don't you run something like this? You've published about the People's Bank. So when it's called Hero Cloud or Recep Tayyip Erdogan, I'm wondering if that law doesn't apply to them. Here's the press release from your friends, and I have their press release from that incident in December, warning them on December 25th. We talked about it, we talked about it on the Commission, and there's no way we're gonna do this. E, then, in December of last year, when we came back in January again, after the budget, who was it that removed these publications from crime, and brought the law proposal, the article, to protect them? Justice and Development Party again. Dear friends, let us not cover these things up, neither let us flee from the judgments of the court. Let's all do something to take structural measures. Please stop fighting the boatman here. Big responsibility falls to power here, and I'll say it again. The head that wears the crown is wise, says Edibali, takes it from below. If this is about solving problems, I say, come along, plan and budget commission, or if you want to do it together, let's set up a separate commission on economic and social measures such as the Constitutional Commission, bring what's first, we'll say our objections to its content, and we'll get it through Congress quickly. Otherwise, let alone 2023, 15 years, 20 years later... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0037par0227	Let's give him an extension.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0028par0228	...unfortunately, if we don't close these gaps, we won't have a chance to do any of this. I'm just saying, I hope we can all pull this off together. If you don't listen, the same problems will continue, and we'll be talking again in the next budget, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0038par0230	Thank you, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0028par0231	Mr. President, I've been waiting for you to show me your initial tolerance, half an hour, February 28th, but...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0038par0232	What do I do? What was I supposed to do? What do you want?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0028par0233	I didn't say anything, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0038par0234	So I agreed.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0028par0235	You were very tolerant today, but not when it came to us.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0038par0236	Thank you, thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker is İstanbul MP Mr. Arzu Erdem. Here you go, Mr. Erdem. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0039par0241	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, one of our officers has been killed and two others have been injured in the traitor attack of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Mardin. I pray to God for mercy to our martyr, and to the wounded for speedy healing. Dear MPs, under the budget bill of 2016, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on the budget of the President of the Disaster and Emergency Management. I salute your grand delegation and our beloved Turkish nation watching over us on television. What is the government's budget and what are its revenue sources? I'm sure our dear nation will be wondering that. The pens that form the state budget include tax revenues, property and service sales revenues, CSI and public banks revenues, institutional revenues, other ventures and property revenues, interest revenues, shares taken from individuals and institutions, fines, other kinds of revenues, non-movable sales revenues, other capital sales revenues. As it turns out, the state budget is not made up of the ruling party's own income, nor is the money spent by power his own money; it is the money that our beloved nation, the owners of our country, is entitled to. Therefore, we all know that the use of the budgets -- which means "harmful," of the poor, the orphan, and the orphan -- must be done in line with the right and purpose of our nation. I'd like to start talking about it based on this. The disaster, the imperfection, the disease, the plague, is a major disaster in the dictionary. In the daily language, the disaster is used for things that are unexpected, such as fires, floods, droughts, earthquakes, epidemics. Disasters often develop against human will, but it is the government that must take the necessary measures against these events against its will. Here, in the interest of the nation, the government must take these measures again for the sake of our beloved nation. Whatever misfortune befalls you is because of what your hands have sent ahead. Dear lawmakers, if the government does not carry out measures, measures, and what needs to be done, every life we lose is theirs again. If there is no intention or negligence on people who have died in terrible events such as earthquakes, floods, mines, violent storms, and fires, then it is fate, but those who have deliberate or neglect in this part of destiny are guilty and responsible. In view of the financial and spiritual losses caused by natural disasters directly or indirectly, disaster management is not meticulous in today's world. You say that awareness of disaster planning and governance is increasing in our country, but there are also increasing disasters. We are a country that experienced the earthquake of Lake Clutch on August 17, the earthquake of November 12, the earthquake of Düzce on November 12, the earthquake of Soma, the Someneek, the Tekima, the disaster of Ayamama Creek, the flood of Samsun. That's why we're talking about the budget of an institution that we all have bleeding wounds that needs to be meticulously studied. Unfortunately, we talk about these issues not before disasters, but after disasters. AFAD, like the ruling party, manages the crisis rather than manages the risk. Dear MPs, AFAD has not given the necessary support for the efforts of our country's brothers and sisters who live in Turkmeneli, the AFAD has not kept their promises; they have left our country's young people, who continue to help, despite their own ability, and who are in a difficult situation, to abandon their fate. As it turns out, the ruling party continues to save the moment with its temporary solutions, and it doesn't keep its promises; it uses institutions for its own purposes, and it doesn't surprise us anymore. From here, I bless my brothers and sisters who died on Mount Turkmen, my condolences to their grieving families, our beloved Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, our country is often experiencing natural disasters, and it is constantly at risk of disaster. The number of people who lost their lives in natural disasters has increased by nearly two times as much as last year, reaching 19,000 people. Our country, which is third in the world in terms of human casualties in earthquakes, has earthquakes that range from 5 to 6 average size each year. Earthquakes form 50 percent of the casualties. City planning and land use arrangements play an important role in determining the risk of building and infrastructure earthquakes. The fact that the ruling party's work under the name "Central Transformation" is not done properly will cause more loss of life and property in possible earthquakes. The basic principle of urban transformation is the public benefit. The urban transformation of a place means changing it to its infrastructure. Of course, it's not an urban transformation to tear down houses and build higher and modern homes. Moreover, if you are borrowing thousands of dollars from the landlord to live in his own home, and the infrastructure of your homes is not an urban transformation if the infrastructure of your homes is not solid. Now, I'm asking the ruling party: are you doing the urban transformation to help the upper-income group live in more luxurious housing, or do you want our nation to live in more earthquake-proof, more comfortable houses? There is no way our country can be saved from disasters and catastrophes by converting urban transformation intorantal transformation. According to Istanbul's places of risk, Istanbul's highways and developed streets appear to have high value. The fact that the places declared a risky area are not even the size of a neighborhood raises a question mark on the heads. For example, places that have been declared a risky area in Istanbul's Gaziosmanpaşa and Esen (Eslen) are more marked by its proximity to TEM highways, environmental roads. There are also treasures near many areas that have been declared a risky area, which makes sense. This allows areas that have been declared a risky area to be more suitable for large housing projects. The areas declared a risky area under the law are open to public housing projects. As you can see, the ruling party's mentality is to continue the runt policies by providing temporary relief under the name post-failing relief rather than preventing natural disasters. I'd like to give an example of the European Housing Project, which is located in Topkapı, İstanbul E-5 to be an example of not urban transformation. It has been declared a total of 36 acres of risky land with 2 or 3 acres of carotids from businesses, mostly empty, unoccupied, on 36 acres of land without housing. Former Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Erdogan Bayraktar. A huge housing project was created as a result of a high precedent-enhancing urban transformation fitness with the signature of Bayraktar. This project, where each apartment is sold for $1 million, serves whom and what, to whom? What did Minister Bayraktar, one of the heroes of the 17-25 period, say to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's investigative commission to investigate allegations of bribery and corruption, should we refresh our memory? He said we did everything with the approval of Erdogan. I understand what the former minister meant, and I'm sure you understand. Again, a substantial number of storms, floods, landslides, climate-based disasters are causing serious casualties in our country. Such natural events are the result of rapid, low-priority urbanization and socioeconomic policies, which lack choice of venues and engineering data that serve these decisions. This is turning into social and economic destruction. In addition, despite having previously been kept on a certain number limit, AFAD has received 7,000 personnel in a short period of a year or so. Unfortunately, there is no clarity as to the conditions and how these personnel were made, where they were used and how they were trained, which is so important to our nation. Dear lawmakers, our country is the leader of business accidents in Europe and the third in the world. The main sector of business accidents is mines and quarryes. In 2002, this ruling, proud and seated before the Turkish nation faced two mining catastrophes in the 12 years -- 2014 -- our beloved nation. There were 301 in Soma, and 18 in Ermenek. This makes it clear that sufficient measures have not been taken against the accidents in the mines. Mining accidents are not a natural disaster, they are due to the lack of measures. In our country, there is no adequate and thorough work on business safety. Accidents are not a disaster, they are a result of negligence and recklessness. The necessary measures are still not being taken today. Since it does not comply with the standards, the temporarily closed mines are reopened. This means that the lives of some 200,000 workers in the mines estimated to be 13.500 in our country have been ignored. We forget quickly, those dark and sad days. Remember the lost bodies of coal black. What if we remember, the ruling party, these are the usual things, these accidents are the fate of this profession. Didn't they say? Now, to another disaster at the head of our country: the AKP government. The AKP government, which has ruled our country alone for 14 years, is pushing our nation and our state to the brink with its wrong policies. In 14 years poverty has increased, our nation has become poor, unemployment has become unbearable. The supporters have been rewarded for their expectations of getting a runt, and they continue to receive it. Natural disasters have become the government's gate. Our nation is in trouble because of tax debts, one of the largest resources in the state budget. Our nation's debts are increasing day by day. Our families have been forced to separate more than half of what they earn to pay off their debts. Our college graduates are unemployed, and the government does not perform its primary duties. Our country is suffering from a severe economic crisis due to external debts and waste. According to data from the Turkish Statistical Agency, the number of people who supported agriculture in 2002 dropped from 7 million to 458,000, to 5 million 473,000 in October 2015. Although our country is a country of agriculture, it has caused nearly 2 million farmers to leave their land in 14 years because of the wrong policies of power. Which means we'll be eating meat and dairy for a long time, buying more agricultural and animal products from the outside. Every day we bleed out, every day we remove the body of a martyr wrapped in a flag from the mosque courtyards. Our country is rewarded with bullets, bombs, mines, and hostility for grave mistakes. The missteps taken yesterday turn out to be betrayals today. No matter what the ruling party says, no matter what excuse it takes, the Republic of Turkey is going through the worst days in its history. Our nation's empire of fear is under way. We, the Nationalist Movement Party, are prepared to do whatever it takes for our saintly practice, which has struck the seal of history, and we are ready to do whatever it takes, but we have done everything in our power to lead a life worthy of our beloved Turkish nation, and we will continue to do so. We, in Azerbaijan, in East Turkistan, in Turkmeneli, in Bayır Bucak, have become plaintiffs to our last member of the Turkish pride and consciousness, and we will continue to be. Dear lawmakers, there are about 3 million Syrian refugees in our country today, and the ruling party says it's spending 8 billion dollars on Syrian refugees, but we don't know if these expenditures have been done according to our state budget. The drama of Syrian women who fled refugee camps into prostitution is deeply affecting us all by the ruling party, while the woman's value is well spoken for but unknown. Marriages are made with money that threaten the family institution and can lead to polygamy. Syrian asylum seekers of the age to be called children are sold for three to five thousand liras. Today, let's talk about terrorism, which has threatened all of us, whose financial and spiritual destruction is heavy. Are the Syrian asylum seekers a member of a terrorist organization; are they PKK or ISIS? I'm asking the government, do you control this? I know the answer, and you actually answered when you described the perpetrator of the Ankara explosion. Isn't the government responsible? Dear lawmakers, during Abdullah Gul, the presidential grant increased to 434 million during Recep Tayyip Erdogan, when the presidential grant was 199 million, not enough, but was reorganised, 545 million. Isn't this a very large budget for the White Palace during the time of unemployment, poverty, shortness of livelihood? Our nation is sacred to us. Our national and spiritual values are also our principles. We have not compromised the interests of our nation, nor have we compromised our spiritual values. We, the National Movement Party, don't make our republic say that. We, the National Movement Party, don't make our beloved martyrs say... We, the National Movement Party, don't make the baby killer say "no." We as the National Movement Party will not divide our country, we will not change our thousand-year brotherhood, we will not fall apart, we will not fall apart. No one can put out this stove, His name is Turk. His country will remain Turkish. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0040par0270	Thank you, Your Grace. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the third speaker will speak for Mr. Ismet Buyanataman, an MP of Bursa. Here you go, Mr. Bigataman.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0041par0274	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the draft of the Central Management Budget of 2016 and on the budgets of the Foundations General Directorate, Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, and on the budgets of the President of the Foreign Turks and Associations. I hereby salute your delegation with the utmost respect.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0040par0275	Mr. Bigfoot, your time is twenty-two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0041par0277	Thank you. Honourable MPs, Turkey has been ruled by the AKP, which alone has had a large parliamentary majority for 14 years. Over the course of 14 years, the AKP budgeted 13 budgets, the results have not changed, and the social and economic goals have not yielded hope. The credibility and sincerity of the budgets will not be achieved by numbers, by proportions, by obscure words. The main priority here is the position and capacity of the political will in the background of the budget. The budget is condemned to regularity after it does not reflect seriousness, does not have vision, does not have a scalpel to socio-economic issues. Above all, the budget must grasp social truths, answer our people's needs and expectations. However, the budgets so far have not developed a deep measure to make our people smile, which has not been drawn a social and economic horizon. The spin of the state wheel is evident that the budget, which is a vital function for economic gears, does not monitor the most difficult communities in distribution and division of resources. Dear MPs, first of all, I would like to make an assessment of the activities of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency's presidency and of the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys and of the AKP governments' view of the Turkish world. We all know that AKP's view of Turkish and Turkish matters is unfortunately crippled. Before the AKP, everyone was Turkish, and thanks to the AKP, we were able to avoid becoming Turks. We know that absurd approaches such as the AKP are no exceptions. The owner of these freakish words is now the AKP MP. There has been no explanation from the AKP's mentality of what happened after the AKP, but we know that this is clearly divisive. Unfortunately, the AKP couldn't save itself from a complex, crippled mentality that couldn't digest Turkish culture and history. We can't expect the government to, of course, do something for the Turkish cause, to be sensitive to the Turkish cause. As a matter of fact, the government does not show 1% of its interest and interest in the problems of Arab countries to the issues of our Turkish brothers outside the Turkish world and outside Turkey. In the presence of the AKP, our Turkmen brothers and sisters are unable to account for 1 percent of the value shown to Barzani and his marauders. Today, Turkishmen who defected to our country were deprived of health care outside of emergency, while Arab immigrants from Syria were granted work permits and untested university studies, Prime Minister Davutoglu had announced with great good news. It must be known that no one will be able to digest the Turkmen and separate them from the path of presence and unity. We follow closely all Turkishmen cities and the situation of our Turkmen brothers and take our necessary notes with determination. Speaking of which, I'd like to thank you on behalf of the Turkish nationalists for their superhuman struggle to provide for all the needs of our brothers and sisters to the Turkmen house that our Ülkü Januarys have built. Of course, history will provide the cleanest pages of these fine services in the UK. The AKP continues its policy on deception and deception in all areas. The AKP Scholarship Agency has gathered aid for Bayır Bucak Türkmen with the campaign I share my love with them, but the help gathered has been distributed in Diyarbakır. You don't know who the help goes to. Although this may not be a surprise to us, this incident has seriously disturbed the public conscience. In the 1990s, the Turkish world had opened up new horizons with the destruction of Demirperde. With the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the Turkish states of Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan declared their independence to the world. The announcement of independence in the world brought great joy to our Turkey, like all Turkish provinces, and suddenly revealed the Turkish world's excitement from the Adriatic to the Great Wall of China. In this context, institutions and organizations that will take care of our family members have been established. TİKA was founded on 12 May 2001, and was initially very important, but at the end of 2002, we see a huge shift of axis in the TİKA (TİKA) with AKP's power alone. TİKA has been completely changed by first eliminating its aim. It has been transformed into a charity outside the Turkish world. TİKA has reached various places in the AKP's power, such as Africa, Latin America and Palestine, and has directed its activities to those regions. The number of projects conducted in the Middle East and Africa is far above projects in the Balkans, Caucasus and Turkish Republics. The money invested in projects is wasted, and the follow-up of projects is not healthy. For example, how much money has been spent on bee breeding in Macedonia? What's the outcome of this? Unfortunately, TİKA has almost failed the Turkish world as it opens to the world. He remained indifferent to the Turkish's demands, to his problems. There are serious questions about the goals and activities of NGOs that TİKA supports abroad. Are NGOs supported by TİKA being audited? Are their activities under control? In Palestine and Gaza, many countries in Africa, there have been huge benefits, investments under the name "influences." We don't say no aid to those regions, of course it will be done humanly, but shouldn't the TİKA's name be a part of helping the Turkish world? Today, the Turks of Syria, Iraq, East Turkistan, Ahiska, Crimea, and Azerbaijan are fighting for their lives in great tribulation and hardship. In 1948, by Stalin's order, the common Turks were exiled to many parts of Russia. Years later, they were granted permission to return to their homeland, as a result of Georgia's commitment to the Council of Europe. We ask: How many families have returned to Ahiska, the native country of the Turks? HOW did TİKA help these innocent people? Why didn't he support their return to their territory? Crimean Turks were persecuted the same way. Then it was allowed to return to Crimea territory. On the way back, homes and land were purchased for 3,500 families. Returning to the region was encouraged, but, unfortunately, with AKP power, the incentive didn't continue, it was interrupted. Turks have failed to return to Crimea, their main homes, there have been few returns, and the challenges of returning continue, unfortunately. On 25-26 February 1992, in the town of Hoxhalı, in the Upper Karabak region, Azerbaijan Turkicism was subjected to an exemplary persecution and attacks. The Armenian gangs, who have been driven by the support and provocation of the Russians, have intended innocent lives and ignored human values. The sovereignty rights of Azerbaijan, a country of friends and brothers, have been violated. Turkish soil is contaminated by Russian and Armenian aggression. It is Turkishness that is slain in Hodjalı. The target in Hodjalı is Turkish rights of life and property. In Hodja, ethnic cleansing is still at work. The oppressors in Hodja, the home-wreckers, the home-wreckers, who use tortures and tortures as a method do not desist. It's a hypocrisy that so-called Armenian genocide beatlers don't take Hoxhalı in their mouth, that our 1 million relatives close their eyes to our brother's victimhood, that often confronts us in the victims of the Turk. What is this 1 million Turkish Azerbaijan doing now? Are these issues not part of TİKA's field of activity? Can't it be explained to NGOs all over the world, the United Nations, the Hodja massacre, the drama of the 1 million Turks of Azerbaijan, TİKA and the President of Foreign Turks? On this occasion, I bow to our descendants who died in Hodjalı once again in the mercy and spiritual peace of the Lord. Again, East Turkistan is crying blood today, and dozens of people are subjected to Chinese persecution every day. Although the Uygur region is the native country of the Turks, they are forced to emigrate. They're wrongfully sentenced to prison sentences, and our family members are wrongfully executed. China uses unprecedented tortures to shape the behavior and beliefs of the Uygur population. Ma'am Rabia Kadir, leader of East Turkistan in exile, is going all over the world in peace -- she's going to Japan, she's going to the United States -- there's only one place she can't come, and that's Turkey. We still don't understand why it's not allowed. Established on 6 April 2010 as a public institution of the Prime Ministerate, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, our citizens abroad, relatives and international scholarship students who are studying in Turkey, has been tasked with co-ordinating their work, developing services and activities in these areas. Unfortunately, the organisation, which is expected to strengthen relations with our citizens living abroad and with relatives and relatives, is expected to establish closer economic, social, and cultural relations, is not able to perform its duty properly. Other than Turkia, Turks face huge problems in European states. Today, more than 4 million Turks live in Europe. The most important problem of our relatives living in the countries of the European Union is the danger of getting away from Turkish identity. Many of our relatives, unfortunately, can't speak English, speak short. Also, they don't speak the language of the country they are in, and unfortunately, their education is very poor. As Turkey, it should be our duty to take care of all the problems of our people who live there. But it's not like that at all. Turkish youths do not recognise their homeland, nor do they know their country's history, language, culture, patterns and customs, unfortunately. Like TİKA, the presidency of Turkish and Relative Community abroad seems eager to remove the Turkish world from its field of operation. How many of the students from abroad this year are from the Turkish world? Dear lawmakers, the Turkish world feels abandoned by Turkey today. The new Ottomanist imagination is incapable of protecting our Turkish brothers in Iraq and Syria. There's no need to go too far, right next to us, in the historic Turkish settlements of Aleppo, Damascus, Lazkiye, and Mount Turkmen, our Turkish brothers are abandoned to their own destinies. In Aleppo, hundreds of thousands of our family members, ISIS, PYD and Iran-Russian-backed Assad forces live in the northern countryside. It's the government that kidnapped the Shah Temple from its location by co-ordinating with terrorists and making it look like a great success. It is the government that opens its borders to help PKK members in Kobani. The government, which prides the Pesmerge, organises at night, has done its best to ignore the presence of the mighty Turkmen, and continues to do so. Of course, "The PKK is not a terrorist organization." "It would be naive to wait for the government to protect Turkish presence in Syria in Iraq," he said. "I swear to God, those guns didn't go to the Turkmen." He said, "I have made these words so that help can be made better, healthier." It would be naive to wait for the owners of the historical wheel to establish a process for the preservation of Turkish existence. It is our nation's most obvious and justified expectation that the AKP government's righteous sensitivity to Gaza shows some of its interest in opposition in neighbouring countries to our Turkmen brothers. The fact that the AKP has completely ignored the Turkish geography of the global forces that will witness the power struggle in the coming years, the failure of TİKA's activities in this region and even to a halt is deeply contrary to the strategic interests of our state. On the other hand, Turkey also has a bureaucratic problem to discuss relations with the Turkish world. Bureaucrats are people who don't know the area, who have been assigned to a fellow sergeant's relationship, and who don't care about the Turkish world. It is known that the institutions mentioned with the Foreign Office on the Turkish world have often fallen into a recession. With political debates, the trained staff has been eliminated from these institutions. The AKP, unfortunately, spends money to divide Turkish parties in the Turkish world, which is divisive in the Turkish world, as in Turkey. Despite being the only Turkish party in all Balkan countries except one country when the AKP came to power, four Turkish parties were formed in each country, and Turkish communities were unfortunately divided by the AKP. The TİKA, which has offices in many countries around the world, has disgraced the Yunus Emre Institute, Mosul and Kerkuk, which opens Turkish courses. TİKA operates outside of its purpose. TİKA is founded for the Turkish world, but spends an important part of its time and budget in Africa. We believe the AKP government, whose name is Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, is allergic to Turkey, will soon change its name and remove it from its name. On the other hand, there are out-of-control money movements made through TICA. I don't know who spent this money or where. HOW much money has TİKA spent, and the government here must answer for it. Dear lawmakers, the project to bring students to the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys has hurt all our relatives. The students brought in are brought in as co-eds, and our family members are not discriminated against. Students brought in from the Turkish world are not interested, students are staying on the streets. Many times, the students brought in by this institution have been housed in their homes by university students. There are many examples of them. What is the selection system for students brought from the Turkish world? The job of choosing students is being handed down to the opposition government's initiative, and unfortunately no one knows who the students are. For example, how many students were brought in from Romania this year? How many of them are Turks? On the other hand, the students who were taken from Gagavuz have been sent to provinces where the government can't send the teacher. On what basis are the cities that will be sent to students chosen? As with every job, the AKP, unfortunately, is illegitimate in that regard. Dear lawmakers, what is the purpose of the foundation? In general, the foundation is established to promote cooperation, solidarity. However, during our time, the AKP's government has emptied all concepts and institutions, as well as the foundations. Our foundations, which are one of the cornerstones of Turkish-Islam civilization, have unfortunately been influenced by corruption during the AKP administrations. Our foundations, founded by people close to the government with various names, have been made a tool for corruption. The best example of this is TÜRGAV, directed by the son of our President. This so-called foundation has practically taken over municipalities and ministries, doing what it wants, making decisions on the spot. Our General Directorate of Foundations, which should control and control these rotten, rotten structures, has unfortunately raised its name in restoration scandals. In law states, the business and procedures of governance in democracies are subject to control, so transparency and accountability are one of the essentials of democracy. However, it is not possible to talk about them during the AKP ruling period. On the other hand, during the AKP period, the first regulation of non-Muslim community foundations was under EU harmonisation laws in 2003. The 55737 Foundations Act, issued in 2008, brought to the status of other foundations that were removed from exceptional status, established according to the Civil Law. In fact, our Constitution and our Turkish Civil Code "can't be founded to support members of a certain congregation." It does. However, with the AKP's arrangements, limited and exceptional rights with the Lausanne Agreement have been extended to this agreement, and non-Muslim community foundations have been brought to the same status as other foundations, regardless of the requirement for reciprocity. Thus, the foundation of non-Muslims, Christians and Jewish citizens, while the majority of the Muslim people in our country lacks a religious, community-oriented foundation, has been granted all kinds of rights. The AKP government has brought positive discrimination to church foundations, synagogue foundations. There's no way to explain this with Islamic tolerance. This is clearly submission, drilling Lausanne into Turkey's harm. "It is our duty to give the minorities their rights." "Don't force the rights that you don't have, you give them comments." So whose neck is it to seek the rights of Muslims? Why don't you make all these arrangements for the church foundation and look for the rights of the foundations we've established? Why are you saving one-sided without seeking the terms of reciprocity required by the Lausanne Agreement? More importantly, how do you feel about yourself? The AKP will pass through history as a government that closes schools, destroys mosques, opens churches. Who gives you the right to return the republic's gains in your new Turkey, which you claim to have built with lead and blood? A new country is built only by a war of independence. Because of your wrong foreign policy, Turkey is on its way to dealing with such a struggle. In this struggle, those waiting for their leader in lace sheets at the airport -- as in the past -- will be land, while Turkish nationalists will be... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...will, of course, protect your number and take your place next to the unburdened heroes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0042par0312	Mr. Bigataman, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0041par0313	As I cease my speech, I salute your high council once again with my deepest respect and respect.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0042par0315	Thank you very much, Mr. Bigataman. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy will speak as the final speaker. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0043par0320	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to discuss budget talks involving the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, the Turkish Language Foundation and the Ataturk Cultural Centre. Of course, we would like to start by making our basic suggestions, our recommendations, but first, what is the meaning of these institutions and what is it founded for? The mind that founded the Republic was a founding mind that was raised in the final years of the empire in very important schools, and with the experience of war, with the front, with blood, with gunpowder, with a virtue that could hold the book together. In terms of the books read by the founding will, including the Çanakkale front, as of today, we have no time, we cannot read a book. We see how empty the reason is. This is the mind that sees the general future of the world's conditions at the time, and sees that a nationalist mind is inevitable, and after certain challenges, a national state is declared a republic. A number of institutions, institutions, are built on the pillars that can make the republic possible, not only to be declared. This led to the Turkish Association of Language Review and the Turkish Historical Study Society. These main columns form reference sources to the world of that period at the point of explaining the founding motive of the national state and the acquish of Turkish culture. In addition to these institutions, the Institute for Turkic Studies, along with Musiki Muallim Mektebi, has developed training programmes on national Turkish discipline. In this movement, in order to express the spirit of time at that time, my citizens, at the heart of the great Ataturk, what we did, at the heart of what we did, we did great and great things in little time. The largest of these jobs is the Republic of Turkey, which is based on Turkish heroism and high Turkish culture. The expression is actually an expression of this, and the basis of the culture that existed in many of our state institutions is culture. These studies and the establishment of the Faculty of Language and History-Geography in time also build the mind that completes the vision, which is a reference to the basic principles of the republic. What was the budget when you did that? In doing so, what was the understanding of the vision of the Turkish world that revealed a vision of an unlimited Turkish culture with limited resources? What was the relationship between Hungarian musicologist Bela Bartok and Hungarian-Turkish music by inviting him to Turkey? It was a horizon, it was an understanding, it was a vision. It was also a statement that the horizon, the vision, was not always necessary for this soul to become this soul. By hearing the thrill of it with limited resources, that was the spirit that could have written the Tenth Year's March. We're coming from the sources that are the basis of this spirit to the changes in the history of the Republic. We're dealing with a new Turkish declaration and a new concept of Turkey on ignoring the founding will and the basic sources of the republic's reference and disproportionateing and evaluating concepts. When we look at what this new concept of Turkey is, we come across a Graham Fuller, his new Turkish book. We're looking at it, and it says that it's built on the Republican fault line, and we have to move the republic away from here in the wrong place on that fault. For that reason, it's kind of like converting it into a multilingual, multicultural, multi-identified, federal state, a little bit like an Islamic garnish, dipping sauce, that's the summary of the book. One step later, we're looking at the David Philips reports, the reasons for some parties being founded, the approaches built on the victims of the meaningful 28 February process, and the thanks of a world of thought. Of course, the Nationalist Movement Party has always shown its virtue to support those who have been the ruling party for 14 years as well as their positive work as we have the right to criticize them in this sense. But today, when we come into his private space and look at the serenca of institutions and organizations that are relevant to the subject we're talking about, we see that he's in a very sad situation. In this pathetic situation, we see that the institutions are in a position of breakthroughs in their own curriculum, whose vision and missions are described by the foundation, which is not advocating and cannot feel the spirit of that founding will at all. We're also saying that we're also concerned that this is actually because we're moving away from the philosophy of the organization. When it is referred to as the philosophy of the establishment, the foundation of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, referred to as the non-religious Turkey, the Turkish country, comes to mind just yesterday in the Dianet budget where we spoke. This vision also represented the Turkish renaissance of the republic, which was founded by friends and the religious leaders of Mustafa Kemal and the people of that time, who were under the influence of foreign currents, based on the Turkish mind, on a religious understanding of the Maturidial mind that had been built on Turkic civilization. We honor them. The words "Mustafa" mean a lot in my world, especially in my world. One is the Prophet (AS), the Bani of our spiritual dome, the architect of our spiritual dome, the Prophet of Hazreti, whom we consider to be the earthly master of the human world; the other Mustafa, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the Republic of Turkey, which is based on Turkish philosophy and independence. The National Movement Party never sees these two Mustafas as being the other and says to those who have carried out Turkish politics on a structured understanding of these two seesaws: If the Mustafas can be expressed on Ankara, the Bani of the national state Mustafa Kemal Anittepe is in the aesthetic of the spiritual celestial dome. Every time we build a rope between Annittepe and Bigtepe -- which is an understanding of the nationalist Movement principles -- then the Republic of Turkey will exist forever with a permanent mission with its state and its nation. I would like to start by asking these institutions, which can serve this within this scope, which can serve the great Turkish nation with understanding that its Mustafas do not do the other; and if the authorities of institutions follow us, at least I would like to ask them if the institution has any more cultural policy in order to determine the cultural policies of Turkey right now, or if Turkey has a wider cultural policy? To what extent do these institutions follow developments in world Turkology, and what method do they follow in the effort to transport them to our country, and what are their relations with universities, with other institutions? Does the Institute for Ataturk Culture, Language and History have any function in relations with Turkish states and communities? If joint projects are being conducted with the Turkish world, where are they? You can say you're not making a question proposal, you're giving a podium speech. I wanted to open up some space and answer these questions a little bit. The concept of cultural diplomacy has been widely used lately, valued MPs. Yes, it's true, at the point of the necessity of cultural diplomacy, a state mind created the Dolphin Emre Institute, and we respect its founders, its foundation. We also had a hardworking Turkologist in charge, who left for health reasons. You need a touch to grasp cultural diplomacy. You will, of course, try to make these touches according to the country's foreign policy, but where are you in the interest of expressing common relations with the Turkish world, which is particularly your own intrinsic? For example, there are relationships with Uzbekistan, especially Russia, that are tensed after the crash. What can be done in relations with Uzbekistan in the name of cultural touches? I mean, can't we start off with a touch of cultural diplomacy in the Turkish world with meetings in Turkey that will be held in his name by identifying some names from the Turkish world's poets, writers, thinkers, thinkers, contractors? What do these institutions think at the point of short and long-term science policy? What can he do by dressing him in the spirit of time? The inventory of the Turkish culture basin also makes a lot of sense to us when Turkey's lack of information is at an extreme stage, with an academic who is an expert in Fars philology at the head of the institution that has nothing to do with Turkology. The government, which states that it represents a state without the Turkish philosophy of science and that state, is, in some way, unable to govern this country. Then one day he will say something, and the next day he will say something else, and he will not be able to follow the right path. And in this context, the momentary changes in today's policies and the day-to-day changes in rhetoric are because there is no philosophy behind it. No job without philosophy, friends, never practice. Unfortunately, we see no work in these institutions at the point where the fundamental resources of Turkish culture can be restored to our language, except to publish a very limited doctoral thesis, to provide financial support for the meetings he sees fit. The institution, as in its example in the world, has to have the identity of an independent science academy, friends. So some institutions, I'm afraid, have become the background of politics, creating reference sources for the fundamental thesis of politics. Such institutions, especially the Academy of Sciences, which is the cultural basis for the existence of the republic, have a unique style, even in the Soviet bloc, and in Turkey, it is sad to think of it as a backyard. Unfortunately, Turkey, which is the central country of Turkology research, does not have a serious Turkish library, information and documentation archive. However, both in the study of orientism and in the scope of this, we see that there are very important central libraries in the United Kingdom and the United States, and that we still have to go and get our basic resources from there. In these institutions, the West detects the basic dynamics of countries with its own audience, and reveals cultural anthropological, folklore, philological, and action plans. Here is Lawrence, the new Lawrence, who entered the Great Middle East Project with the background of a hundred years of vision, in the Middle East, today, if two fish are separated under the sea, then surely a long-legged Englishman has passed through them. He reminds the Indians of his promise. I've worked for some time at the School of Asian Studies, England, researching their folklore, cultural practices from Indians to Caucasus to Central Asia, to Ulanbator, and I've had the opportunity to observe in their national archives how they transferred their thesis to the database of the Great British Empire. Following the study and meeting of the Turkish Language Foundation in 1946, I was able to see the reports of British intelligence and the captain of the era, who reported on what words were offered in response to which words. Yes, that's what being a great state required. Mustafa Kemal set out with this goal. In this case, he mentioned Gagavuz. In this regard, Baku had arranged the Turkology Convention. The Turkish Language Convention was held there. The two states laid the foundation for the vision of the Turkish world, which would demonstrate the understanding of a nation. But with an understanding of the institution's vision in the yurt, which is what we've been doing on this platform over and over and over again, with zero problems and rhythmic foreign policy and proactive understandings, we've done what we've done today, and we've done it on this platform, and we've seen what we've done with it. It is inevitable that the state of the Republic of Turkey must return from all these experiences to its founding philosophy, to the spirit of time, to its consciousness. The history, oral culture of Turkish families is a major vision project for the Turkish Project of Legends on its art. When these epic projects are set in motion, not even a film film has yet been made in our country that shows the vision of the Turkish world through common values as a reference to art, cinema, theater. Those who read a bit of American history and saw the political vision that Hollywood, the Pentagon, and the White House worked together, that the American Stock Exchange worked together. Why? When we look at the question, how do we express commonities through cinemas and subculture codes? Yeah, we've been partially discovered in movies or shows, but how was it discovered? We can see that by having references from the kitchen of history to our time, we can see some systems and political views that can support a number of systems and political views, but by seeing them as we do not see the deep and narrow chambers of the state, in the radishes of the valley, in wolves -- let them be victims -- and diplomacy from the depths of history, with dreams of presidentialism and rights, and we can see them as we see them as we see them as we see them as we see them as we see them as we see them as we can not see the complete, collective, identity-building, collective-building, vision of the Turkish world. Here's another thing we propose: we believe that institutions operating on Turkish culture, language and history in Turkey need to move towards a common goal within a certain co-ordination and should publish a common vision on this issue. In this context, we think that the TİKA (TİKA), Yunus Emren, the higher institution, and its subsidiaries should act in accordance with basic principles and ideals, making assessments of what they are doing together. I'm afraid that without the Turkish Academy's initiatives, the Kazakh Turkish Academy, the common Turkish history issue can't even be on our agenda. Turkey, Turkish history is not limited to the borders of the Republic of Turkey, friends. In this scope, Ziya Gökalp, who guides the republic's establishment and is called my father, has said to the Turks neither Turkistan/Vatan is a large and life-long country and every Turkish nationalist Turk has a Turan in the soul and cultural code of every average Anatolian human. In this context, reducing these problems, such as Turkology's problems or science policy, only to table, chairs, curriculum, textbooks, to narrow-scale meetings where memories are renewed in conversations is the worst thing to do in this area. The great linguist of the Turkish world, Professor Dr. Tofik Hadjiyev, recently passed away, God rest his soul. Tofik Hadjiyev is also a member of the High Institute, but I didn't find any information about his death there. Another subject: At least today I saw that the websites of institutions have not been updated. Looking at their websites, there's not even any information about who was a member, who died, who retired, who did what. I don't know if they're taking it seriously, or if I looked at the wrong pages about it. In public institutions and institutions, especially in these institutions, which make up the basic references to our being a national state, friends and friends who are in charge, please be aware of their responsibility. I'm completing my statements in this area, paying my respects. About my remaining thirty seconds, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, is Akdoğan here? Mr. Akdoğan was just here. I was wondering if the Dolmabahçe talks were out of the President's knowledge, if it was in there, at least in case he had time to consider them. But our other Deputy Prime Minister has a lot to do with the issues we're talking about, both the ideology he's an acquish with and the previous party he's a part of. We hope that he will take note of these criticisms and have the opportunity to put them into service and action. I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0044par0345	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. I simply want to say that there are a lot of sides and directions that I disagree with in your speech, but it was original, and thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0045par0347	We'd be grateful if you'd joined them all.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0046par0348	You'd be here if you'd joined.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0044par0349	I don't hear it, I don't hear it. Well, now, we've come to the People's Democratic Party group talks.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0047par0351	Mr. President, before we go into that conversation, I have a brief request for my position.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0044par0352	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0047par0355	Mr. President, thank you. Just a moment ago, your predecessor, then all the groups, many of our deputies, made accurate assessments of February 28th, were co-organised in the assessments. The most common aspect of the findings was the dissolution of forces, one of the essentials of democracy, and the full independence of parliament and the failure to be directed by any institution, person or structure, and the indirect and direct intervention in the executive body was unacceptable. We'd like to repeat the same will. However, during the time of the talks, Mr. President told reporters at the airport in Istanbul that he did not recognise the Constitutional Court's decision, that he did not find it right and that he did not respect it. Furthermore, despite the Constitutional Court's decision, he should have resisted his decision, saying that the lower court had wronged his decision to evacuate. He said it wasn't about journalism, it was about espionage. Now, there is the immunity of the legislature or executive body and the independence of the other body, as well as the independence of the judiciary, and the Constitution is guaranteed, and it clearly states that no person, the institution or the authority of the body, can direct it to the judiciary, cannot criticize or argue. And in this context, Mr. President is not independent of this ban on the Constitution, it is not a bee without ban. As the country's president, the forces are also tasked with harmonising the separation between the facilities and forces, according to the Constitution itself. He is the country's top judicial institution, such as the Constitutional Court, which is how judges are appointed to that institution, how they are appointed, how they are appointed by whom he is not in line with democracy. The spirit of the coup attempt on February 28th, the force, the force in my hand, allows me to do this, to live and to conduct it. It is equally grave that he says that he does not recognize this decision as the head of the state, as he now tries to establish it with power and authority in his own hands. We, too, deny and condemn these statements, despite the respect of the state and not the practice of its individual, but the respect of its office.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0048par0361	Okay, thank you. Mr. Turan, are you going to make a statement from your position?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0049par0363	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to add a few sentences, if you'll excuse me, to what Free Bey is so excited about.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0048par0364	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0049par0366	The Constitutional Court's decisions in Turkey and the decisions of other courts can also be discussed, criticised, and criticised by all politicians, all jurisprudences. It's one thing to be critical of decisions, but it's another to be implemented after that decision has been made. Mr. President has criticised the Constitutional Court's decision, and we're criticizing it, but beyond that...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0050par0367	How do you criticize it? You were pleased the other day.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0048par0368	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0049par0369	Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0050par0370	You thanked me the other day, you were pleased.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0048par0371	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0049par0372	I never interfered. Is that an understanding, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0050par0373	How do you criticize it?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0048par0374	Mr. Special, I don't hear you. Look, they listened to you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0049par0375	I never said a word, I listened Mr. Free, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0050par0376	Okay. My dear, we also criticize. When I say...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0051par0378	Okay, Mr. Turan, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0052par0379	Look, I'm also critical of the Supreme Court's final verdict, referring to the local court's decision, acting as a criminal lawyer by replacing him. In our understanding, it is essential that individuals be judged without arrest. No matter who he is, we'd like him to stand trial without arrest until a court order is issued. That's what I said, that's what I'm saying. I said, no matter how respectable the local court's decision is, I say the same thing. You will stand here on the stand and knock down the local court's decision, and you will insult the judges completely, but you will applaud when you have a decision that you rejoice in -- in -- in the face. I'm saying I don't think this is right, and I'm saying it again. It is not only Can Dündar, but it is essential that he be tried without arrest until the verdict on him is finalized. I'm saying this one time, but I don't want the Constitutional Court acting like it's a local court decision to go into evidence...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0053par0382	The Supreme Court has the authority to act like him.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0054par0383	He doesn't have that authority. Where did he come from? Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0055par0384	Congressmans, please, let's be respectful. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0056par0386	To the Supreme Court...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0057par0387	His indictment hasn't even been read yet.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0056par0388	Mr. President, I am authorizing the Constitutional Court...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0058par0389	If he had continued, would he have been arrested?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0056par0390	Mr. President, will you step in?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0059par0391	I'm listening, Mr. Turan. I'm listening. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0056par0393	The will that gives the Constitutional Court this authority is the will of the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0060par0394	Not at all, not at all.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0056par0395	This is the EC PARTY, which gave it to the Constitutional Court as a result of the referendum.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0061par0396	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0062par0397	What's that got to do with anything? The Clave gave you that will! Oh, my God!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0056par0398	Whether you crack or explode. No. You said no.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0063par0399	Is he going to act on your orders?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0056par0400	The EC PARTY has implemented the revision of the Constitutional Court's powers on this issue in the referendum. Our friends weren't behind us when we took all the steps to freedom, human rights. Look, we don't want anyone to be tried -- I'm saying it again -- but the court is a divine decree, it can't be criticised. The Constitutional Court's decision is a decision that exceeds its limits, which makes it a matter of authority, but it's one thing to ask people to be tried without arrest. I'll say the same thing again, and I'll point out: the local court has not made a decision about the individuals, it's not confirmed, there's no acquittal, there's no conviction. We'll all wait for the decision together. But I think we have the right to criticize the Constitutional Court's decision in question. Besides, I still find it an example of people who don't read the indictment, who don't know the contents of the case, who, despite some very serious allegations, pretend nothing happened. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0064par0404	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Congressmans, I would like to inform you that I will not be allowed to hold a meeting and a statement regarding the case in accordance with the Third Amendment of the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0065par0406	There's no such thing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0066par0407	How does the President do it?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0067par0408	But he's free to the President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0068par0409	If you'll excuse me, I'm not done yet. I'd like to report this, but I'd also like to ask you to consider the 138th article of the Constitution or our close interest in freedom of expression. So I'm opposed to an assessment and comment at the point of our closeness to each other on the limitations or the width of freedom of expression in 138.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0069par0411	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0068par0412	More specifically, freedom of speech is for everyone. That's what I think.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0070par0413	Exactly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0068par0414	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0071par0415	I want a word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0068par0416	Mr. Akçay, are you going to talk about this?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0071par0417	So it's a similar matter, sir, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0068par0418	But I'd like you to follow the sensitivity I'm telling you. But let's hear it for you and for you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0072par0419	Should we give it to him in writing?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0068par0420	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0073par0422	Mr. President, thank you very much. First of all, I was going to start by joining your earlier reminder. Of course, when I asked about it, actually, I hesitated a little bit. Now, while we were having talks about February 28th, I specifically stressed one thing: the need to be consistent. Everyone has to be consistent with their assessments. I think it's a minimum political condition. As I also know that you are a lawyer, I also express my dissension. What do you mean, the AKP gave this authority to the Constitutional Court? I mean, it turns out that there is a party state mentality here that I invite the Justice and Development Party to get rid of this mentality as soon as possible. In fact, unfortunately, the state of the Republic of Turkey has been transformed into a party state. A president says I don't obey the Constitutional Court's decision, and I don't respect it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0074par0427	I don't. He doesn't.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0073par0428	He never said he already respected the institutions of this country. I'd like to address the President here: Mr. President, if you say that I don't respect the Constitutional Court's decision and I don't obey it, then you'll show that you don't respect yourself either. Minimal consistency... you have been chosen according to this Constitution, and you must abide by it and respect it. As head of state, if you don't do this minimum respect and obedience, then how are we going to complain about other people's lawlessness, anarchy, terrorism? So, he picked up the gun and turned it into a terrorist inn. The pit will justify the boilers? Then they're making their own excuses. Let's remember: every time they have a review, they're in public, they're either making references from the Prime Minister or the President, creating their motive. These words are a coup after a coup against the Republic of Turkey, its institutions, its rules, its laws, its anarchy, its lawlessness, its forces are not to recognize the separation and the consciousness of being the head of a state, not to be the President. The President of this Constitutional Court should not have any opinion or comment regarding this decision, so it is possible that anyone can discuss it in public, but it is in the interest of the President not to discuss it. This is also a serious concern in the broad community, in the respect to which the President should be heard, and in the taking of his words, his statements, his statements seriously. Mr. President's statements are not true, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0075par0431	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0076par0432	Mr. President, may I make a statement?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0075par0433	Okay.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0077par0434	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0075par0435	Mr. Yasar, you want your word, I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0078par0436	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0075par0437	You want some, too, Mr. Ironel?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0078par0438	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0075par0439	Okay, I promise you, then I'll promise Mr. Yasar. Then I'll promise Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0079par0440	Then let us ask, why do you promise Yasar?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0075par0441	He wants to say something.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0079par0442	Then let's all say something.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0075par0443	What I don't understand, folks, is that I've just said it, and I want to repeat that when we come to ourselves, we're an infinite advocate of freedom of expression, but when there's someone else, we're incredibly restricting freedom of expression. Why? Why?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0080par0444	Let's do another round!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0081par0445	You're so cruel, so cruel!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0075par0446	Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0082par0448	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, we expressed it yesterday, so today we do not accept the President's statement of the evacuation of Erdem Gül. And about these evacuations -- I said it yesterday, and I'm saying it today -- 10 of the 17 members are appointed members of the former President, appointed by Abdullah Gul, who is Prime Minister. When we think about all of this today, it is a shame for Turkey that journalists who have been unfairly unlawful, violating rights, and politicians who express freedom of thought are already imprisoned in prison. You know, that's how you have to see it. Today, the evacuation decision for Can Dündar and Erdem Gül is a truly joyous decision. Let's just say it's really a shame for Turkey to call it a coup and put it in the headlines like that. Not only Can Dündar and Erdem Gül have expressed it here yesterday, but I will say it again: Beritan Canözer JINHA reporter; he was with me and we were doing a press release, and immediately, after leaving, he was taken into custody and arrested on the idea of being excited. It was expressed here yesterday that they had no press cards, no pressure, but we want to express their individual names here: Azadiya Welat Editor Rohat Aktaş was murdered in Cizre. Again, I spoke to Mazlum Dolan on the phone, as soon as he had removed Fatma Fire from Tyre, while he was still wounded. Injured, Fatma Fire was one of the men who carried him to the hospital while he was being taken to the hospital. Mazlum Dolan and Fatma were arrested with the family of Aşemah. He was sent to prison. Thirty-two, 34, our names -- journalism and political freedom -- 34 of the press workers who were trying to spread their ideas and all that happened to the public to achieve freedom of the press were under arrest, their names were here, our friends yesterday, and I can count them from here. Two people have left, and the release of these friends is described as a coup in Turkey. So, if you think of those Supreme Court members as coupters -- then Abdullah Gul appointed them -- who was this coup against? Or is there a crack in the AKP government itself, within the party itself? I said that yesterday, as Mr. President was speaking, he said once again that he was putting so much pressure on the courts, and he proved it. We have repeatedly stated that we will never accept this, that the judiciary must do its duty independently, but unfortunately the judiciary is not independent, and the judiciary is doing its duty under the pressure of politics, power, government. We know that very clearly from our arrested journalists and arrested mayors and politicians. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0083par0453	Thank you. Mr. Yasar, you want a word, what is it, may I ask why?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0084par0455	Sir, I've asked for word before, only because I was late in the system, I couldn't find the time.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0083par0456	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0084par0457	I think I'm going to make a statement that I think is important.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0083par0458	You didn't hack into the system. Get into the system, I'll assess it later.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0085par0459	Mr. President, I have made a request after Mr. Turan. Now, when I want to speak again after Mr. Turan, once again...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0083par0460	I haven't seen him.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0085par0461	If you think it's okay, don't let it happen again.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0083par0462	Okay, I'll take that as a matter of fact, but right now, I haven't put a deadline on the entire group of vice presidents. Now I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0086par0464	Mr. President, I'm not going to tell you about the statement of Erkan Bey. I'm going to tell you about the statement of Erkan Bey.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0083par0465	I promise Mr. Special to you for two minutes at your place. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0087par0468	Mr. President, now, the second joke of Article 138 of the Constitution directly affects Mr. President. No body, authority, authority... He can't give advice or advice. He says. He says: "In fact, the court that made the decision about them could have resisted its decision." And then he says one last thing: "Now that I'm on my way, things can get a little more complicated." Now, Mr. President, we'll see what happens in Turkey while we're in Africa, but in the open, there's a suggestion he'll make to the lower court about the objection to the verdict. It may be a mix-up. It says, "It's not the words of a president." This will is the will of the AK PARTY, the will of the AKP. If there's a will, if it means a referendum, it's the will of the people. On his way to the referendum process, the Republican People's Party had the right to vote here if he was brought to the Constitutional Court with the right of individual application, but there was an HSYK regulation within the Constitutional Court's right to be used as one of the sweets that AKP is now complaining about and covering the poison itself. Now they say if our hands had been broken, we wouldn't have done it. When we go to those days, we say, "Our will." It's just a diversion. It was a substance that we supported, and they refused to separate it so they could pass the substances, such as the HSYK arrangement. But God doesn't have a stick, he shows that he exists to people and to parties in this world, so that he blows his head off in HSYK's decision. (CHP turns to applause) You're saying that even if our hands were broken, they shouldn't have fooled us. Therefore, in the future, I would like to request that everyone make a statement without misdirecting the House and the citizen, knowing that everyone is speaking in consistency and in the People's Assembly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0088par0471	Yeah, everybody has to be consistent, I really agree.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0089par0472	He's the President in the first place.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0088par0473	Here you go, Mr. Turan, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0090par0475	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd say it's not polemic. I wanted to take a statement from Mr. Ozgur about the claim that MHP was the precious group deputy's party state, but they repeated the same claim. What I'm saying is clear, every court decision goes to the Constitutional Court, it's debated. Every day, friends who have repeatedly insulted our President from the stand, from the rally, who have called him a didictator, we have seen again that our president is unable to criticize the court's decision; that's one. Second, what kind of dictator doesn't get a court order, so to speak. I mean, you're gonna say "dictator," but the courts will decide against you. In fact, even that's a contradiction in itself, but our people see who's the dictator and who's holding him.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0091par0478	I don't know him. He says, what can he say?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0090par0479	What I'm trying to say here is that the right to individual application to the Constitutional Court has proven the political will of the EC PARTY, and I'm not saying anything about the state here. I repeat, in the September 12th referendum, when all parties were in front of us, we took the package to our nation at great risk, and, of course, with our nation's acceptance, it became legal. Why would I go into technical detail here? But everyone knows that there was not only individual application to the Constitutional Court, but other rights to the community. We faced it, we carried it, we got close to 58 percent of the vote. Would he have passed if we hadn't? So, it's not about the will of the AK PARTY, but of course it's about the will of the people, along with the way the AK PARTY put it at risk. So, I'm fixing this, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit01spe0092par0484	Thank you. I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0092par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 47th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks with the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Computation Bill. 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board Final Account for Central Management 2014 THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2016 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2014 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Presidency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2014 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2014 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2016 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2014 "I") "Turkish History Building" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Historical Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Administration Final Account for 2014 The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now we come to the speech of the People's Democratic Party Group. The first speaker is Diyarbakır MP Ziya Pir. Here you go, Mr. Pir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0093par0053	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. A year ago today, we lost Kurdish writer Yasar Kemal. On the 1st anniversary of his death from here, we honor and cherish him. Members of parliament, Turkey's geographical position provides geopolitical advantages, but also risks. Without reading the risks, the policy of zero problems with the neighbors has led to the development of zero neighbouring policy, being blocked in exports and economics as a result of its political stance, both internal and external. Although Minister of State, Mr. Simsek -- who is in charge of the Treasury -- we'd like him to be here, but he doesn't -- connects the obstruction of exports to political ambiguities in Turkey's trade partners, the main problem is that Turkey's foreign policy is at its lowest. If it were as Mr. Lightning puts it, the Russians would not eat tomatoes today, nor would they eat chickens today, but they import chicken and tomatoes and other foods from other alternative countries, not from Turkey, but from other countries, so our exports have fallen a little bit further. The government, which cannot read geopolitics and complexly globalized foreign policy or misjudged us, has also deviated from its long-term economic goals in domestic policy. Now, quickly from foreign policy to domestic policy. In their development plan in 2013, $1.3 trillion of revenues were targeted for 2018, and that's how it was explained to the voters and to us, and we were happy, and we were happy. So, what happened? In the latest medium-term program you've announced, you've revised your national income goal to 854 billion. Good luck with that. That's a good number for us, if we can get it right. Again, for 2018, there's a negative 450 billion dollars' worth of revision here, which I'd like to point out. Again, each person's income was set to be $16,000, but now, in two and a half and three years, you've made 16,000 by moving 6,000,000 of the number to the right, one digit to the left, and you've made 16,000 by moving the zero to the left. I wish you all the best. [[!]] Not to mention the export target. You dropped from 277 billion to 192 billion. And I don't want to go on about it, with those numbers, it's all there. In fact, after the 40 percent revisions, I'd like to know how you've determined the new numbers, or what fantasy did you fit into when you were setting those numbers two or three years ago, and we don't know what numbers you got. But finally, you've explained it, and now we've seen once again how much you've misled the people and your constituency, along with the revisions that have reached these negative 40 percent. Even so, we're the best in the economy. You're still saying, "May this be good." [[!]] Our finance policy: we exercise fiscal discipline. You say that every chance you get. This practice, which Kemal Dervis had brought to Turkey in the 2000s, in 2001s, in 2002s, until 2007s -- was necessary -- was properly implemented by you; we applauded you back then, and today we applaud again. It was a big success, really, you have to hand it to you, but with the macroparameters that have changed since 2008, maybe you should've given up that financial discipline a little bit, maybe you should've moved on to different rules of finance policies. I know there were some bureaucrats who spoke of it back then, but some of them are now, unfortunately, no longer in the necessary places. That's what I think, but of course it's a matter for the government to decide. Whether they go on like that or otherwise, they either succeed or fail, they will, of course, give you an account for that in the future. Now, I don't want to get into too many theories, and you're always highlighting your talks with statistics, and I want to give you some statistics. But, like you, I don't always want to see the AK PARTY as a period from 2002 to today, and it doesn't seem right, you have to divide the AK PARTY into 2, one from 2002 to 2007, and one from 2008 to now. Why? Because macroparameters have changed, and every change has a new era. In this context, I have a table, the data in this table is the calculations of the IMF and TEPAV foundation. I'm going to give you an average rate of volatility here, along with the average growth rate, secondly the average current is open, and thirdly the average savings rate. Now, with average growth, you have to see volatility. Why? If volatility is greater than average growth, a stable growth is not an issue in the country; you can do the bottom, you can do the ceiling, but it's not stable. So you always have to see the average growth with volatility. Average growth between 1980 and 1990 is 4.68; volatility 3.42; all right. The growth between 1991 and 2000 is 2,91; volatility is 5.43, much more than growth, and we all know what Turkey went through in those 1990s, the catalyst. Growth from 2002 to 2007 is 6,79; volatility is 1.81, which is a number that the whole world is trying to reach but can't reach, and we're applauding. But, between 2008-2014, growth is 3,27; volatility is 4.82, so it's way above growth; it's not a good thing, we're seeing its consequences these days. Cari was open -- I don't want to go in too much -- found 6 percent between 2008 and 14 years. And that's a number we haven't seen since the 1980s, so I'm telling you the number between 2008 and 14 is a huge number that we've never seen before. In other years, in other times, that number is much, much lower than that, and even your number from 2002 to 2007 is a great number; I congratulate you again. Yesterday, Minister Lütfi Elvan made a statement here, saying: "In order to achieve our economic goals, the domestic savings rate must reach 20 per cent. We agree, we agree; in my opinion, there should be more than 20 per cent, at least 22 to 23 per cent, so that we can support economic growth in Turkey from the inside. Otherwise, if they're 20 percent or 14 percent as they are now, there's no way to grow from the inside, there's no way from the outside right now. What time is it? Yesterday he said 15 percent, but the number I've got must be 14 or 15, it doesn't matter, we're there. How does Mr. Elvan want to get that number up to 20 percent? He explained it yesterday, with financial policies, that the financiers had three vehicles in their hands. With this, raise domestic savings to you 20 percent. What are these tools? Number one: change in individual pension will be a new practice. He says: Second: If people who want to buy property are in certain savings before buying property, we will encourage it. The third is a similar type of project. These can happen, so these are the tools of finance, finance policy, you can do it. But I have an assessment made by the Central Bank in 2013: "Early Savings and Individual Retirement System: An Evaluation of Practice in Turkey." There, we looked at it, and it says that if the optimal arrangement for individual retirement can be applied, it can affect the savings rate by about 1.5%. This is a figure that was said in 2013. In 2013, our economic situation was much different than today, so you could say optimal numbers, but when we come in today, it probably needs to be revised, down to maybe 1.5 percent, maybe 0.5. Now, what's this savings rate, and I want to give him a very short, flat logic, says that people in the country, I'm telling very plain logic to their bank accounts -- let them invest some of their income, some of their salary. Now, the minimum wage is before $1,300, so at $950, people get 45 percent of the minimum wage or a minimum wage. Now, it's gone up to 1,300, this 45 percent is much more than that, and we say to those people, people who barely make a living, people who can't get half a pound of meat, you put some of the money into the bank, so you serve the financial policies of the financiers, and the savings rate is up to 20 percent. It's not possible. The Central Bank says it will increase by 1-1.5 per cent with the individual pension system, so let's say 16-15.5 per cent, but you can't go up to 16 to 17 per cent with your other policies, but you can't go up to 20 per cent. And especially if you've brought Turkey into a system based on the economy of consumption, it's not possible at all. Here, it's important to explain that normally these policies are done by monetary policy and you get results very quickly. Here's what happens in the markets when the interest goes up and down. This domestic savings rate is actually done by monetary policy, but Mr. President says: "Let the interest fall." On the other hand, government officials say: "We will save domesticity." It's actually a contradiction between Mr. President and the government. Now, how do we get out of this conflict? Come on, find a solution. Isn't it a shame for them too? It's a shame that you can't just raise domestic savings above 20 percent. Oh, well, we're going to support it, so we'd like to get 0.5 percent. If you say so, explain it to us. Now, I want to wrap this up, and I have one minute left, but I have something to say, especially about the Turkish people living abroad, but I think I'll refer it to the Minister as a question motion. Here are the bureaucrats from the SPK and the BDK. I'm leaving some of what I have to say about that. Only there is an arrangement in the Banking Law for the preservation of reputation. An advisor from the palace, Mr. Hero Cloud, has recently come out, here he is, a few months ago, making statements about the Business Bank. I mean, the law says that there can't be a purposeful cause or a false report that could damage a bank's reputation or its reputation or its wealth. That is exactly what the mighty Cloud did. I would have asked the SEC and the BDDK to make a noise about it, but nothing was done by the government or by the prosecutors. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, Mr. President, I think that's it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0094par0074	Thank you, Mr. Pir. Second speaker on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan. Here you go, Mr. Dogan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0095par0079	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your delegation. I have made a commitment to state the opinion and proposals of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the 2016 budget of the Prime Ministerate's Office of Afet and Emergency Management. Budgets are very important political, economic and governance documents, which, above all, give legitimacy to governments' activities. Budgets are also the basis for economic and financial governance tools of capitalist modernity, while the balance between social classes is of great importance in the establishment of social peace. They are also the key indicators of political authorities' stances on labour, democracy, social rights and freedoms, human rights, different ethnic identities, belief groups and equal approaches towards different genders. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, as we know, have been referred to as an institution established in 2009, based on the Prime Minister's office, to conduct services related to disaster and civil defence, and as we know, to the center of social debates in the areas of the crisis. Because of political power's bankrupt foreign policy moves, unfortunately, a tragedy that has become one of our major problems, the refugee problem is one of the activities of this institution. The AFAD has drawn up various reports on this subject. Some of these reports include our visitors from Syria, the Brothers' Land, the Population Movements from Syria to Turkey, the Guestship in the Lands of Brothers, the Syrian Women in Turkey. Does AFAD have a concrete strategy as a result of these reports? Are we informed as Parliament of the condition and transparency of the AFAD refugee camps? Have any sanctions been imposed on the institution in which the public impacts are still under way in the process of the Van earthquakes and the distribution of aid for the victims of earthquakes? Has there been an inadequate intervention in the Soma disaster and the uncertainty of where the funds are being gathered been found in the institution? But does the political government have any savings on this institution about the lack of floods in the Black Sea region and the lack of a complete disaster plan for every part of Turkey? If we were to sort out the inadequacies of this institution or its equivalents, I think we'd have to devote a few years of legislation to these dysfunctional institutions. Mr. President, we all know that Turkey is a country where refugees stay and transition. These migrations stem from the civil wars in the Middle East, the conflicting environment in Turkey, and, in general, poverty. However, Turkey has not had a law for many years that includes comprehensive and universal rights to refugees. The first legal arrangement in this area was recently carried out by the International Protection Law and International Protection Act 6458. However, the law continued the distinction of Europeans and non-Europeans for those who took refuge in Turkey. There are also many problems waiting to be resolved in implementing rights, such as education, health care, and welfare. The lack of legal solution to this vital issue has led to the tragic death of tens of thousands of people on our shores trying to flee from Kobani, the Shengal, and the inhuman war in many parts of Syria, and to the country's case of conscience being unsolvable and helpless in international public. Again, the absence of the same competent and distinct immigration policy also reveals that refugees in the country are considered a cheap labor force and that the hate speech of political power throughout the country has been unleashed on these people for years. Mr. President, the valued MPs, according to the AFAD page, live at 269,366 Syrians in the AFAD-based housing centres as of January 25, 2016. In our country, where more than 2.5 million asylum seekers struggle to survive, only a tenth of the refugees live in these camps, and thousands of them are left to beg in large cities, in winter conditions, and all the strangest of them, we embrace our brothers in political power. The expression stands as a problem in itself. However, this problem is critical, especially given the situation of the camps on the Syrian border. As of 29/01/2016, many cities and districts have been turned into conflicted areas, unfortunately, by political authorities, with curfews, which have been declared without legal housing from 16 August until now and have found 338 days in total. On October 1st and November 13th, curfews declared in Nusaybin caused many people to lose their lives. According to the statements of witnesses and reports of NGOs, the tent city of AFAD is now being used as an arsenal by law enforcement forces at the entrance of the city where all exits are blocked. Although there have been numerous motions to question the subject, none of them have been answered. Finally, at the end of December, the camp was evacuated completely, and its inhabitants, Ezidis, moved to their camp in Midyat. According to the report published by the AFAD presidency in 2014, the capacity of the camp in Nusaybin was 5,040, while the camp in Midyat was 3,048. In places where people escape from civil war and violence are put in place, a new war is being waged, and it is also a violation of international standards for these people to come face to face with violence again. In order to meet the raid of refugees during the breakout of the civil war in Syria, the camps, especially in Hatay, Urbana, and Antwerp, were not allowed by NGOs, media members, lawmakers, to enter. During this period, the media reported that the AFAD camps were the refuge of jihadist forces fighting the regime in Syria, and there was no satisfactory explanation by the institution. And unfortunately, the President of Disaster and Emergency Management has made the government's anti-discriminative and segregating policies a tool, and it's continuing its activities in this way, unfortunately. The first was on October 23, the second was on November 9, 2011, and the Van earthquakes were a series of events in which AFAD had been observed to become a propaganda device. The AFAD, whose primary goal was to prevent disasters, rejected the request of TMMOB (TMMOB) who offered to help identify risky buildings after the first earthquake, and then lost 24 people after the second earthquake of 5.6 November 9th, following the collapse of the Hotel Bajram. In the process, the AFAD offices were organised through former vice-conservative governors and co-ops and worked as the AKP agency; aid was distributed according to partisans, not according to the needs of the town-wide needy. In the process of direct intervention, the aid collected by the public's initiative was, unfortunately, not delivered. For example, two of the trucks that came from Gevash (Gevash) as corteges were seized. The teams that seized the aid sent to the municipalities insisted on this unfair distribution. Buildings built on the road of Edremit by the TOKI, for the location of the Van earthquake victims, are not still habitable because they lack the basic structure, as opposed to architectural disaster. Mr. President, we still remember what happened in Soma, after the mine disaster that killed 301 workers in Soma. We're talking about an institution that arrived at the scene three hours after the Soma disaster happened. We're not dealing with risk management. We're dealing with an institution that's trying to run a crisis and screwing it up. As you will remember very well, the initial statement stated that the money collected after the disaster was $46,500,000, as well as the total amount invested in the bank accounts -- including 903,449 euros from the Northern Turkish Republic of Cyprus on 24/7/2014 -- in accordance with another statement issued by the AFAD presidency on July 16, 2014. But as a result of an application under the Law on the Right to Information, the amount collected was more than $5,389,681 TL, which was reported in the campaign accounts totalling 52 million,516, 130 TL. The difference between 5m 389,681 TL is unknown when the Soma mine disaster accounts for 156,000 euros in aid to families who have lost their relatives through this budget. Dear lawmakers, eight of our citizens were killed in the flood in Hopa. In August 2015, several people were injured and severely damaged. Although the risk of floods has been repeated over and over again, through rooms and NGOs, especially with elements such as ecological massacres, construction in streambeds, the balance sheet will become heavy in a possible disaster, the AFAD has not been able to manage this risk, nor has the AFAD been able to perform its mission by preventing the loss of life after the disaster happened. Despite being said that the measures were taken after this disaster, unfortunately, three more of our citizens lost their lives in Artvin, where the flood struck again in November 2015. Disasters that cause physical, economic and social losses to the entire community or to certain parts of the community, which prevent or interrupt normal life and human activities, such as natural, technological or human-related events, should be an important area of public administration.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0096par0100	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0095par0101	One more minute, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0096par0102	I can't give you an extension because I think it would be unfair to other friends.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0095par0103	Okay, yes, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0096par0105	You can pick it up later on in your speech. And I thank you for understanding me. The third speaker on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group is Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0097par0110	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party on behalf of the budget for Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency as part of the budget for the Year of 2016 and on behalf of the budget for the President of the Foreign Turks and Associations. I salute the General Assembly. Precious MPs are citizens of Turkey who live abroad, apparently, in the name of the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys. Thus, this presidency must include all citizens of Turkey who are citizens of different ethnicities. So, our primary proposal is that the name of the presidency is in the form of citizens of Turkey who live abroad, in the form of all our citizens. Precious lawmakers, when we look at the official objectives and activities of the President of the Foreign Turkish and Relative Communitys, it is said that the presidential work covers the legal and social project support for discrimination and right violations that our citizens have been exposed to in countries living abroad. Of course, we'll have to ask some questions from here on out. While the presidency is working to ensure that our citizens of Turkish ethnic identity abroad, our citizens living abroad, can live in the multicultural atmosphere of our citizens, for example, their identity and culture within the multicultural atmosphere of the countries living abroad, as well as our citizens living abroad, whose native language is not Turkish, are also able to live in the multicultural atmosphere of the countries in which they live? The answer is no. Thus, the goals expressed by the presidency include only our citizens, whose native language is Turkish. It is clear that the actual work of the presidency on our citizens living abroad does not include all our citizens. We had forgotten that our differences contributed to us in recent years, but we realized that as we went beyond our fears, we became normal, relaxed as we relaxed; as we relaxed, we were able to use the Suryani, Kurdish, Arab, Sunni, non-Muslim, Laila, all of Turkey's people. This is what we imagine, what we desire, Turkey. In addition to agreeing with Mr. President's statements, the state institutions must quickly exceed the level of rhetoric and show that they are not taking it superficially. In this context, I'd like to continue to talk about some of the important issues and especially the foundation issues of our non-Muslim citizens, one of the oldest people in our country. As we all know, the issue of confiscation of residences for our non-Muslim citizens is one of the major problems facing Turkey that has been pending a solution for a long time. The majority of the institutions that are central to the religious, social, and cultural survival of minorities in the Turkish republic are community foundations established during the Ottoman period. After the Act of the Foundations came into effect, in 1936 all the foundations were obliged to declare their property and register it on the deed. After 1936, minority foundations were able to acquire both purchase and donate real estate, and they registered them on the deed until the Supreme Court decided in 1974 that minority foundations would not be able to acquire property. However, by the Supreme Court's decision of 1974, these declarations began to be accepted as a foundation, and after this date, hundreds of moving sites belonging to the Keldani and the Jewish community have been seized as a result of lawsuits that led to this decision by the Supreme Court in succession. Mr. President, we have to stress that some positive legal regulations for minority foundations have been carried out during the period of the AK PARTI governments, 2003, 2008 and 2011, as well as under the influence of the cases that minority foundations have filed in the European Court of Human Rights over the course of time. However, these regulations did not include minority-owned foundations, nor did they provide inclusive solutions to the matter of confiscated transports. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important and urgent problems facing minority foundations today is the election regulation of the foundations. The regulation for the election of the executive boards of minority foundations has been cancelled by the General Directorate of Foundations for nearly three years, but its mandates are under many administrative strains. In fact, what needs to be done is to make comprehensive legal arrangements to solve the problems of minority foundations once and for all. Because the problems faced by minority foundations cannot be solved by a regulation. The right to choose is later taken from minority foundations in the period, depending on political relations and conjuncturality. As concrete as it seems, the election regulations have been canceled for three years, but no new ones have been made yet. Dear lawmakers, the current shape and application of the interim Article 11 of the Law of the Foundations and its application are largely inadequate to address some of the problems of minority foundations. The condition that temporary transfers to minority charities are registered in the 1936 declaration of a temporary clause leads to significant property rights violations and sacrifices. Mr. President, the other important issue is that only 12 parcels of land so far have been returned to the Purple Gabriel Foundation, a total of 30 parcels of land confiscated from the ancient Purple Gabriel Monastery Foundation, which is very important and sacred to the Suryani people, and the remaining 18 parcels have not yet been returned to the Purple Gabriel Foundation, despite large efforts. These unfairly confiscated lands must be returned to the Monastery Foundation at once. In addition, the Suryani Catholic patriarchate building, which is one of the most glorious structures in Mardin, is still used as a city museum of the Ministry of Culture, must be handed over to its rightful owners. As a result, the request of our citizens regarding minority trust properties is that, regardless of whether or not it is registered in the 1936 declaration, it should be returned to the relevant foundations, including the property taken from the minority foundations, the foundations taken from the hands of the minority since 1912, and the removal of them to third parties. I'd like to talk to you about another important problem. Dear lawmakers, as you know, the Heybeliada seminary opened in 1844. In addition, the Heybeliada seminary is an institution of this country. The school's theology department was closed as of July 9, 1971, with the Istanbul National Education Directorate's secret article dated August 12, 1971. At the time the school was closed, it provided training as a minority school, not as a university, but as a minority school in Articles 25 and 41 of the Lausanne Treaty, which had not been cancelled. According to Article 40 of the Lausanne Treaty, non-Muslim minorities are allowed to perform religious rites and to open all kinds of schools and educational institutions. Article 3 of the Constitution, which stipulates that military and religious education should be carried out by the state as an obstacle to the reopening of the school, has been cited as the third article of the Constitution and Higher Education Law. On the other hand, the Heybeliada School of clergy had been training as a minority school under the Treaty of Lausanne. In addition, assessments on whether the Heybeliada seminary should be opened according to the principle of reciprocity between Turkey and Greece are not legal. The principle of reciprocity, as you know, is a principle that two countries should apply to each other's citizens, not to their own citizens. I've had to go through a lot of things because I didn't have enough time, but I still salute you with these feelings with respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0098par0127	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the fourth speaker is Mr. Idris Baluken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0099par0129	Diyarbakır MP.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0098par0130	Diyarbakır. I stayed last semester, and you've been a Diyarbakır MP this semester. Your time is five minutes, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0100par0134	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today is a historic day, the anniversary of two important dates. First, the anniversary of the coup of February 28th, a postmodern coup that stood as a monument to shame in the history of Turkey's democracy. Once again, we, the People's Democratic Party, have publicly condemned this coup. Another anniversary is the anniversary of the day on February 28, 2015, when the Dolmabahçe Accords, which we sum up all our efforts during the process of resolving this militant republic into a democratic republic, were announced to the public. We also want to say that we salute the Dolmabahçe agreement, which will provide the Democratic Republic, again as HDP. I'm not going to read the embarrassing decisions of February 28th here, and I don't want to do that to this House. I'm sure each and every one of you know what's written on those shame pages, on those articles, but let me try to sum up that ten-point democracy manifesto in the Dolmabahçe agreement from here as much as possible. Which of the MPs opposes the clause of that agreement, so we'd like him to come in and testify. The articles of that manifesto, which would make Turkey completely democratic instead of a militant republic, would prioritize a democratic republic, the Kurdish issue, the Alevi issue, the question of beliefs, the issue of women's freedom, ecology, the whole economic issue: 1) The definition and content of democratic politics. 2) Identifying the national and local dimensions of the democratic solution. 3) The legal and democratic guarantees of free citizenship. 4) Democratic politics' relationship with the state and society and pressures to institutionalize it. 5) The socioeconomic dimensions of the solution process. 6) The solution is to address democracy-security relations in a way that protects public order and freedoms. 7) Legal solutions and assurances of women, culture and ecology problems. 8) The concept of identity, definition and definition of pluralistic democratic understanding. 9) The definition of the democratic republic, the common country and the nation by democratic criteria is legal and constitutional guarantees within the pluralistic democratic system. 10) A new constitution that aims to internalise all these democratic movements and transformations. Dear friends, as you can see, the AKP government, which rejected a manifesto that would democratize Turkey, unfortunately, has partnered with its February 28th coupgers, so that we continue to have all kinds of problems today because it has launched a new coup law. Today, the AKP is discussing Turkey's fundamental policies with gladiators, Ergenekonists, coupkers. Today, an understanding and mentality such as East Perinchek guides the AKP government's fundamental policies, particularly the Kurdish issue. Again, we would like to state that the same coup d'état was especially strengthened by a palace coup. So, at the moment we're here, the AKP rejects the offer of the democratic republic and continues its coup on February 28th in the form of a concept of a coup that has been strengthened by the coup d'état. Therefore, curfews are being enforced illegally. Therefore, he will cause the death of young people every day. The right to public demonstration is being interfered with. Therefore, the freedom of the press is being terrorized. It's all a reflection of this coup d'état. Look, two days ago, in the opening statement, I expressed the presidential Speaker's statement that ignored Parliament's will. The AKP's officials went out blindly and defended that statement, but today, even President Erdoğan himself had to submit that statement, but at the time of his refusal, I do not recognize the decision of the Constitutional Court. The court should not recognize it either. He made it clear that a new coup was launched on February 28th. Here's a hit. If you don't know the Constitutional Court's decision, I don't respect it. If you're calling the court, it's called the February 28th coup, so clear. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] See, in the budget talk, Prime Minister Davutoglu said: "Now that Erdogan is the legendary leader, I am the new leader." So did we. I mean, it's legendary, it's a little past, it's self-determining, it's non-political, but we see that this definition is absolutely... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...it's not the right definition, it's still interfering with politics...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0101par0156	Mr. Baluken, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0100par0157	...still instructing the courts with the coup d'état, still don't recognize the decisions of the Constitutional Court. This is not the way.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0101par0158	Mr. Baluken, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0100par0159	I would like you to step away from this coup d'état and return to the Dolmabahçe agreement as soon as possible.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0101par0161	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0102par0162	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0101par0163	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0102par0164	In his oratory speech earlier, I would like to say that we cooperated with coup, coup mentality -- including February 28th -- and that this alliance continued with the coup d'état, and that the same mentality was revealed on February 28th, and I would like to speak to our government and our group about bullying and bullying.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0101par0165	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0102par0170	Look, first of all, I would like to point out that we have stood up from this bench, especially since we have not stood up to the blows so far, the nation has demonstrated its will, and have declared that we will not be involved in any of the matters of our nation's consent, and that we have rejected these accusations personally, including the Yellow, the Moon, the Yakamoz, the 27th of April, and the whole process of February 28th.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0103par0171	They were acquitted, Ma'am. They were acquitted.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0104par0172	What's that got to do with anything? They're acquitted.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0105par0173	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0106par0174	And my second objection will be that, as you've just highlighted in your speeches, I've specifically condemned you to declare the operations against military, civilian, bloody terrorists, who have built bombs on the roads, on the roads, on the roads, on the roads, on the streets, on the streets, without distinction, as a coup. It's all a mental eclipse, I'm telling you. Just moments ago, similar and similar expressions were used in the dwelling - the fight against terrorism, and it is said that civilians should not be harmed. In particular, I read the testimony of our President in the Constitutional Court's decision: I will remain silent on the Constitutional Court's decision, but I do not have to accept it. Look, on this bench...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0107par0176	Read the rest and the rest.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0108par0177	I don't know him. He says, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0106par0178	I do not obey his decision and I do not respect it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0109par0179	You're making a constitutional coup.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0106par0180	Isn't that right, fellas? He's right to the end, and I agree with his statement.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0109par0182	Erdoğan is making a constitutional coup. Recep Erdogan is making a constitutional coup. I don't sleep. He doesn't have the right to say, everyone will comply.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0106par0183	I agree for this: the Constitutional Court will decide on this before the local court makes its decision, and then you will come here and defend the mentality of coup and coup, and if you expect the President and us to remain silent, you are mistaken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0109par0185	Don't defend the constitutional coup, don't defend the constitutional coup.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0106par0186	We have struggled with every blow and the mind of the blow, and we will continue to do so.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0110par0188	It's the coup d'état!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0109par0189	You're a coupger, a coupger!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0106par0190	Yes, I also criticise the Constitutional Court's decision in this regard: it is a clear intervention that the Constitutional Court has made this decision before the local court makes its decision, without the actual attention. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0111par0193	Thank you, Your Grace.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0112par0194	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0111par0195	Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0112par0196	Mr. President, during his speech, he made it clear that we described the concept of counterterrorism as a coup.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0113par0197	Yeah, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0112par0198	I want to talk to you about bullying, 69.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0114par0199	Okay, here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Two minutes... Please, don't give me any more trouble, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0115par0204	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't have enough time, but let me read it to you: The Constitutional Court may have decided this way. I only remain silent, but I don't have to accept it, I don't abide by its decision, I don't respect it. If you don't respect it, how do you expect 78 million people to respect it or accept it?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0116par0206	Explains his view in terms of freedom of speech.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0117par0207	You say it yourself, and when he says it, it's a crime?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0115par0208	I do not abide by the decision of the Constitutional Court. Isn't it a clear blow? If the court had resisted that verdict, the Constitutional Court's decision would have been nullified. So he calls to the court, and he says, "Why didn't you resist the Constitutional Court's decision?" It's called a clear blow.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0116par0209	He's right, isn't he? If there was a law, none of this would have happened.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0115par0210	Such interference in the judiciary is a clear mindset of impact. We made it clear from here. Don't you walk arm in arm with the February 28thers? Aren't you waging war with Ergenekon, with Gladio, with the East Perisque and its surrounding gangs, arm in arm? It's obvious. Look, Mr. Arinc made statements yesterday, saying: "When we go to cocktails, God will give us patience." He says, "God will give us patience." Two people will stand aside, and we'll watch them look at us. What were you doing? Why were you digesting it? Why haven't you made a legal arrangement so far? You, God give you patience. You are now strengthening the people you call patience by means of generalization.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0118par0212	What does that have to do with the current issue?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0115par0213	Look, when the word "irtica" is added to those prioritizing witch hunts, you will be the target of that coup. Right now the coup is at the end of a single word from you, and it will be too late from your point of view as the moment it's written into those generalities. On the other hand, the blow to the June 7th election is obvious, so in a nutshell, the coup d'état was added to the headquarters coup; it was registered with the president's two statements. We condemn all blows from here, we find them unacceptable.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0119par0215	Thank you. Mr. Baluken, we've discussed the issues you're talking about at a time when you haven't been there, and the entire group of vice presidents have taken their word for it, so I'd like to ask you not to bring them up again.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0120par0217	Mr. President, I'd like to say in particular that I'm not going to take any promises of a new pick-me-up. We say we reject all of what he says, and so far, our stance on the blows is very clear. We specifically declare that after June 7th, we reject these allegations in the form of a new impact mentality, etc., etc. What happened after June 7th took place in front of our nation, and was a process that led to November 1st. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0121par0220	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0122par0221	Thank you, I'm gonna drop it because this has been discussed.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0121par0222	Mr. President, I'd like to make a point for him to go on the record.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0122par0223	Please...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0121par0224	And two days ago, when we expressed this sense of impact here, when we revealed the Government and Prime Minister's will to use early election power directly within Parliament's jurisdiction, the AKP group's vice presidents were in this way, unconsciously defending it. Look, in the case of today's discovery, even the President himself has become unable to defend him.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0122par0225	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0121par0226	It is clear, on the will of Parliament, there is a headquarters plus palace custody over the will of democratic politics.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0122par0227	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0123par0228	Speak of the inheritance of the Kandil, of the Kandil.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0124par0229	We don't accept any of it, and I find it inappropriate for you to tweeze a sentence from Mr. Kalkul.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0122par0230	I'm asking you not to talk about this anymore. Mr. President has already said that he is silent, and I say that you should consider it under freedom of expression, and I pass.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0125par0231	The palace has made a constitutional coup on February 28, 2016, for the record.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0122par0232	The fourth speaker of the People's Democratic Party Group...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0125par0233	The Palace, 28, February 2016, has made a constitutional coup, for the record.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0126par0234	Tell me about the CHP coups, sir. You're the one who built the convincing rooms.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0122par0235	I don't hear any...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0125par0236	You defend the coup, you defend the coup, you defend the coup!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0122par0237	Mr. Mehmet Emin Adıyaman is an Iğdır MP. Here you go, 20 minutes...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0127par0239	You're a lawyer. As a lawyer, I don't know, I don't hear. Is it keeping quiet?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0128par0240	Be the deputy of the people, the nation, and do not be the deputy of the palace.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0122par0241	I don't hear it because I don't want to hear it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0127par0242	You don't hear...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0122par0243	Mr. Adıyaman, just a minute... Because this friend of ours is disrupting the House, Mr. Fizz Kerestecioglu, so if I don't hear it, I'm going to have to sanction it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0129par0246	Tell me about the convincing rooms, tell me about them, you 28th Februaryer, come on!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0130par0247	Which friend, Mr. President? Mr. President, is it ours?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0122par0248	That's a rhetorical friend. No, not you. If it's one of yours... Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman, 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0131par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0132par0252	What do you mean, Mr. President, you're going to do a separate procedure?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0133par0253	If he were one of you, I'd say that too, dear. I'm not afraid of him, I'll say it, I'll say it, I won't be afraid. I'll reboot your time.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0134par0255	I'm not disrupting the order of the House, Mr. President, I'm registering the constitutional coup.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0135par0256	What a disrespectful man you are!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0133par0257	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0134par0258	You're disrespectful!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0133par0259	Dear Yfriend...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0136par0260	That's enough!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0134par0261	That's enough, you're defending the coup!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0137par0262	Who's defending the coup?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0138par0263	Dear Yfriend...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0139par0264	Shut up, sit down!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0140par0265	You shut up, you sit down!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0139par0266	That's enough, you said it once!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0140par0267	You can't tell me what to do!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0141par0269	Dear Yfriend...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0139par0270	Show some fucking respect!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0141par0272	Mr. Yfriend, please adjust your voice.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0142par0273	Wait a minute, look, don't walk in here, guys, don't spoil it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0139par0274	Mr. Engin, he's shouting all the time.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0142par0275	You need to calm down, you've got experience, he's new.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit02spe0143par0276	I'll take a ten-minute recess, Mr. Adıyaman, and I apologize to you, and then I'll call you to the stand.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0143par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 47th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks with the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0144par0005	Mr. President, we have an urgent development, and according to the Civil Code 60, I have a one-minute request for my position.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0143par0006	I'll give you a minute of your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0144par0010	Thank you. Mr. President, when you just called off the hearing, our Şırnak MP, Ferhat Encu, has reached us, who is currently in the district of Idil, where there is a curfew. There has been a raid on the home of Ferhat Encu, where our MP and the household have been subjected to physical abuse and detention for the people of the household, and we condemn that understanding. To announce this, we tried to reach the Home Secretary and Ministry officials to prevent it, they didn't answer our calls, and we condemn that understanding. That's what we're talking about when we say hard-core understanding. I mean, with the mentality of the Prime Minister Erbakan, who once had to resign as Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, the lawmakers, the mayors, who, despite the election of the people, are suing the prison to close the party today... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0145par0015	Thank you. Tell me, for the record, because I said one minute. Tell me, I can hear you, and it'll be on the record.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0146par0018	But we can't hear it, Mr. President. The General Assembly can't hear, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0147par0019	Mr. President, I'm making a statement on an urgent matter that is important, according to the Civil Code, as acting chief of the group.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0145par0020	I said one minute, and you said the emergency, and you're moving on. I said one minute, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0147par0021	Now, until today, the President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0145par0022	I'm telling you, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0147par0023	Mr. President, the position of the Vice President or Parliamentary Speaker to date is given to the political party groups if the group's MPs have taken their word and have failed to speak at the time they requested.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0148par0024	We've never seen it cut.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0145par0025	Sir?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0148par0026	We didn't see it cut.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0145par0027	Mr. Baluken, you're one of the best people to know that I've been extremely sensitive to the entire group of vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0149par0028	Here, I'd like to ask you...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0145par0029	You said you'd make a statement.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0149par0030	I'll clean it up.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0145par0031	I gave you a minute, and you're out of a minute, so please wrap it up. You did, and Mr. Secretary is here.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0149par0032	Mr. President, if you'll just let me turn on the microphone and clean it up, I'll clean it up. I mean, you don't have to be afraid of that.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0145par0033	All right, let's open it. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0149par0035	Mr. President, here each group of vice presidents reflects the will of the people as representatives of the political party as he has received the vote. So it wouldn't be appropriate to negotiate a minute, two minutes, I don't know, half a minute here.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0145par0036	You do it, I don't do it. Tell me what you have to say before the deadline is over, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0149par0037	So, in these situations, we recommend that you be more flexible, especially towards the group's vice presidents; that's what we expect. That's exactly what we meant when we said harsh understanding. So, the understanding that threatened to send the former prime minister, lawmakers, mayors to prison, threatening to shut down the party, today in the same way that lawmakers are at work, threatening to shut down the party through immunity, threatening to shut down the party. This coup d'état is clear. We're gonna keep standing up to this, and our congressman's standing up straight. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0150par0040	Thank you. I repeat, Mr. Baluken, in particular to you, that I, my fellow co-chairs of the other group, know that I am extremely sensitive and flexible against the demands of the group's vice presidents. I'm saying you didn't have to remind me of that, and...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0149par0042	We're not robots, but we're not computer programs that end in a minute. 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board Final Account for Central Management 2014 THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2016 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2014 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Presidency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2014 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2014 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2016 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2014 "I") "Turkish History Building" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Historical Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Administration Final Account for 2014
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0151par0086	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Idır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, I call to the stand. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is twenty minutes, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0152par0089	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party. I'm going to talk to the Institute of Ataturk Culture, Language and History, but before I speak, before I speak, today is the anniversary of the 1st death of the great literary, progressive, peace-maker Mr. Yasar Kemal. Dear lawmakers, the budget bill on Ataturk Culture, Language and History and its institutions left a specific source of public resources and brought to our attention an arrangement within this budget law. Members of Parliament, first of all, we, the People's Democratic Party of Turkey, believe that it is appropriate to investigate the history of Turkish culture, Turkish language, and Turkish history, which exist in Turkey, which has lived together for centuries, with their own identities, with their own language, with their own culture, with their own culture, with their own. We have no problem with that, and we are very happy with the use of Turkish language as a common language, but it is not just the name of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, or anything else. Is the language really an institution that has actually created a scientific basis for scientific research in Turkish language, Turkish culture and Turkish history, based on its activities since its establishment of the Institute of History and Culture, or is it an institution that has been working in this field for 90 years with a monotheistic understanding, subjecting this country and all its peoples in this country to assimilation, designing it, designing it? In fact, that's what we need to discuss. Of course, the heart would wish that other people who live in this land, such as the Turkish Society of Culture, Language and History, had the opportunity to have similar institutions that could explore their culture, their language, their history, to bring it to light, to form ties to history. Unfortunately, there is no identity, no culture, and no history in this country, apart from such an institution based on a certain ethnic identity based on Turkish ethnic identity. On the other hand, people in this country are supposed to be destroyed by theories created by these institutions. So, for example, the Sun Language Theory, according to its thesis, in this country, Kurds were tried to be assimilated by this theory that Kurds are mountain Turks, whose names are cards, wolves, and Kurds for years to come to believe it, and Kurds for years. Dear friends, the orator friends who just came out here have insisted on the founding philosophy, the founding spirit. Clearly, we need to make this clear on the stand: Is the Parliament that founded this country the 1921 Assembly, or the 24 Assembly that was established in 1924 after the Treaty of Lausanne? We need to make this clear: one. Second: Someone uses the name of Ataturk, trying to nail ethnic Turkish nationalism, Turkish showenism, into our heads for years. First of all, what is Ataturk before 1923 and Ataturk after Lausanne 1923? Someone should tell us the real Ataturk. If the true Ataturk was the leader of the Battle of Liberation (pre-1924), the idea, thought and ideology that he used to gather all the peoples in Turkey -- with his Kurdish, with his Laz, with his Arab, with his Çerkek, with all the peoples in this Parliament -- in the 20th of April 1920. If that's the case, Ataturk -- which we believe to be -- let me read you a speech that he opposed Turkish nationalism. Dear friends, Kastamonon MP Yusuf Kemal Bey -- and then his last name Tengirşek -- is on May 1, 1920 in a speech on health issues in the parliament, giving a speech on Turkish accent, Turkish health, Turkish children, subject Turkish identity, and on May 1, 1920, against this conversation, Sivas Mebusu Emir Pasha has taken the same promise and said: "In the event of His Excellency Yusuf Kemal declares himself, it is necessary for the Turks to maintain their own health alone, and I absolutely reject it. This Parliament is not only responsible for the Turks. I'm recaping. Friends, on this debate in Parliament, ten days after the establishment of this Assembly, Ataturk takes the word and takes the stand and says to end this discussion, there are Chechen, Çechn, Kurd, Laz, and a number of other Kabîl-i Islamists in this country. There should be no word to be said to leave these aside, to bet on the Tefrica. I'm sorry, this was the word of Sivas Mebu, and Ataturk says: "Sirs, I'd like to make a point or two, if you don't want the matter to repeat itself. Zevat, who is not only a Turk, is not only a Turk, but a Kurd, not only Laz, but the mother of ink of all of them is Islam. He himself rejected Turkishism, a concept based on Turkish ethnitism.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0153par0097	It's an act of Islam.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0152par0098	Now, dear friends, if you describe the concept of the nation in a racist, ethnic way, it's like anyone who is connected to the Turkish state in the 66th Amendment of the Constitution is Turkish. If you apply their understanding, you'll make a description based on a racist, specific etinity, but on the scale of the world, the concept of the nation is not defined by a specific ethnist. That's what the People's Democratic Party stands for. We're talking about an understanding of a nation that all the peoples in Asia Minor and Kurdistan share; an understanding of a nation based on equal, free and voluntary unity. Thus, the concept of Turkicism in Article 66 reveals a freakic, incoherent, in fact a deniable description, an interpretation. Dear friends, according to Article 66, how can we imagine that a non-Turkish person can become a Turk by the bond of citizenship? For example, are we going to replace the blood in his veins and make royal blood? For example, are we to conclude that he has renounced his entire existence, his entire history, his entire history, his culture? Of course not. A description of an ethnic identity that does not compromise with the simple truth, which does not coincide with the truth, only breeds conflict, but it breeds separatist, fundamentally divisive mentality. Now, dear friends, you can say, yes, according to the Treaty of Lausanne in 1923, Ataturk (now I have dozens of correspondence) has talks about Kurds, Kurds, Kurds, Circessians, and other peoples. Therefore, until the Treaty of Lausanne in 1923, the Kurds and the Circissians and the Turks in this Parliament, which gave the War of Salvation, they have their own identity, their own history, their own history, and a voluntary Parliament. So, if you get up from this chair to the Treaty of Lausanne until the signing of the Lausanne Treaty, that description was made, but after the Lausanne Conference was signed, we have deceived both Kurds and other non-Turkish elements. I think that's a bold confession. But if it's not so, then this Parliament must return to the spirit of salvation that everyone has spoken of from this stand. Otherwise, after Turkey was established, after the Treaty of Lausanne was signed, we can't make a description based on the Constitution, which was built on the second legislature of 1924, and on the second legislative, denial, and understanding. Dear friends, I've made that point, but what we've come up with today is no different than the past. Before the Justice and Development Party elections on June 7th, just as I described it earlier, in 1923, as the brotherhood was pouring out of literature, and in the end the target was Lauzan, the AKP's target; on June 7th, can I once again deceive the Kurds? Can I get the presidential system through the Kurds? But a hundred years later, after a hundred years, the Kurds were no longer fooled, nor could they be fooled, so they blocked the presidential system that AKP had been targeting in the June 7th elections. That's what's happening to the Kurds today, is that a result like the arrival of the Lausanne process was not achieved on behalf of the president. The AKP and Mr. President are already talking about the new Turkey in all their remarks. We're building new Turkey and building new Turkey -- just like in the 1920s -- how do we back the Kurds, how do we raise the votes, how do we build the presidential system. On June 7th, of course, this process, when this dream collapses, the price of this process is the violence in Cizre, Silopi, Nusaybin, Tyre. Dear friends, of course, the Kurds have not accepted minority status in Lausanne, just as the Turkish brothers have. If we examine the minutes of the Lausanne Conference, the basis of the talks in Lausanne is one, Muslim elements, such as Kurds, Turks, Circiks.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0154par0104	Teacher, there are Georgians.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0152par0105	On the other hand, non-Muslim elements, which are not assumed as the primary element -- guaranteeing rights -- are the non-Muslim elements in minority status. As a matter of fact, the delegations of that period, such as Ismet Inönu, Reza Nur, were joint representatives of Kurds and Turks at the Lausanne Conference. So during the 1923 Lausanne talks, the parts of the Western states that favour negotiations are non-Muslim, where they want to protect rights and law. It was unthinkable, of course, to act on such an ideology that day, with such an ideology, that the Muslim elements would assert superiority among themselves, assimilation, denial, rejection. But, as I said, the process is going on until today, after Lausanne, based on Turkish ethnic identity, perhaps when Push and Terakki take power. So, has today changed? He hasn't changed today either. As the new Turkey is being established, the same mentality, a fancy shape of the same thought, this time polished with political Islam, is placed in front of us. In all the speeches of Mr. President and AKP, even Mr. Prime Minister, they express the spirit of Fakiye Teyran, Melaye Ciziri, Ahmadi Hani, Ahmadi Hani, but Ahmadi Haniye Hani, Fekiye Teyran, or Melaye Ciziri, they also have the right to stamp the tongue of Ali Hariri, their descendants. It does not give Ahmadi Hani, Fekiye Teyran, the right to speak their spirit, but to teach their grandchildren their rights, their law, their history, their language. A people, a nation, means only in its own history. The only way he can produce science, produce art, contribute to society is to think in his native language, study in his native language, and create values in his native language. If you ban a language, sever the ties of a society with history, and you deroot it, it's like a superficial tree, whose roots are not deep in its roots, swinging in the slightest wind. You Kurds don't give Kurdish children the right to learn their history, you don't give them a chance, but you can transfer billions of dollars to the Turkish Language Foundation, to the Turkish Historical Foundation. That's great, but at least as much as a quarter of him, you can transfer the history of Kurds, Circessians, Arabs, brothers, other peoples to institutions that will be formed on their behalf in order to learn their own culture, their own backgrounds, and that doesn't require a constitutional change. Dear lawmakers, my time is limited, but for the last time, Mr. President, the group's deputy presidents have just stated... that I am a lawyer, the final joke of the Article 138 of the Constitution states that the Parliament, the state of the judiciary, must abide by its decisions.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0155par0110	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0152par0111	Mr. President, I don't accept the Constitution in the past, the system has changed.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0155par0112	Mr. Adıyaman, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0152par0113	Now, he actually admitted once again that he had violated the Constitution by adding this idea to the courts. My respects.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0155par0116	Thank you again. The last speaker of the People's Democratic Party Group will be Mr. Kadir Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0156par0121	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. I have made a promise about the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Society. First of all, if you don't learn from history, the good and the bad can come out at any moment, repeating itself. The Turkish Language Foundation was founded on 12 July 1932 under the name of the Turkish Language Study Society, which is eighty-four years ago. His name was the Turkish Language Research Agency in 1934, and he became the Turkish Language Foundation in 1936, and that name continues today. Today, it consists of 40 original members, mostly Turkishologists at universities. Of course, since there has been a change of name three times, I suggest that they be replaced for the fourth time and named after the Turkish language institution, and take part in this 40-strong Turkish-science staff as well as members of the identities and beliefs that speak different languages in Turkey, which have different beliefs -- especially Kurdologists. Because Turkologists who don't speak Turkish have no right to speak the language of Kurdish unless they have the right to speak the language of Turkish. Why am I saying this? For example, given the meaning of the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Language Foundation's employees, the meaning of the word "Kürt", it reveals the truth of what I'm saying. See, Professor Tuncer Gülensoy writes a book under the Turkish Dictionary of Original Knowledge of Turkish Words, and the Turkish Language Agency publishes it among its own publications. Look at the meanings given there as a response to the word "Kurdish" (Kurt). One: a spring, a whip and a staff are made of it. There, friends, this mentality has always seen the Kurdish as a tree, unfortunately, and in the final edition of the Turkish Language Foundation, we look at it as meaning, in response to the last edition of the Turkish Language Foundation: a community living in Asia. Thank God for God, they eventually promoted the people to become a community of people, even after eighty-four years. Now, look, first of all, if the people who work at this Turkish Language Foundation, who wrote a lot about Turks -- who lived in the Abbasis era -- they're a linguist, and they've got rituals about Turks -- maybe they'd write the word "Kürt" into the Turkish Language Foundation's dictionary. Either Cahiz or the scholars who came after him, particularly the Şeşhan Bitli, and the latest in his work "Hajji Khalifa" (Cihannuma) record that the word "Kurttt" means "hero" or "hero." Let me show you a book right now. The book was written by Yusuf Ziyaeddin Pasha and given to Sultan Abdulhamit. In this book, Joseph Ziya Pasha gave meaning to the word "Kurtt" or "x" or "strength," so it would have been better if this work had been looked at before it was interrupted. Now, when we look at the duties of the Turkish Language Foundation, the first one is that it is said to maintain the word and meaning structure of Turkish. After that, in a second article, to make sure that Turkish is used in commercial life, in public communication tools, education and teaching institutions and other areas of social life. You know what they say sometimes, Kurds, what do you want? That's what they say about the Turkish language, we want for the Kurdish language, we don't want much. If we're talking about a thousand years of brotherhood, that's what this brotherhood requires. If we're talking about Ahmed Hani's soul, his understanding, just as our Prime Minister spoke about it in Mardin, the spirit and understanding of Ahmed-i Hani would require it. He insists that an official seal should be stamped on this tongue. So, yes, let's get together around Ahmed-i Hani's spirit, but let's get to know the content of Mem û Zin, which is published by the Ministry of Culture, and let's do it with its content. Then, the spirit of Sultan Saladdin Ayyubi was mentioned in the same speech and in the same place. See, Sultan Salahaddin Ayyubi trained in the Kurdish dialect of Sorani in the madrases he founded in Damascus and Egypt. Saladdin Ayyubi is the main dialect of the language of Sorani. Then if you want us to come together around this spirit, then give you this native - language training right given by Saladdin Ayyubi. Otherwise, believe in the Hereafter, and so will Saladin Ayyub. We will continue to be their descendants in this world until they are granted the right. Then, there's the United Nations Declaration of the Language Rights of Barcelona, which means it's presented there, and it's signed by celebrities like Chomsky, Mandela, 1996. See, the 10th article of this is that all peoples have equal language rights. It is said in Article 24: "All peoples have the right to receive education in their own native language at all the pre-school levels of education from the pre-school to the university." Let's table if you want the Barcelona Language Declaration if you want Mem u Zin. If you want Salahaddin Ayyubi, you want Salahaddin Eyubi. Because in the Treaty of Medina, the Holy Prophet (ASV) gave both Jews and idolaters and non-ethnics the right to education in the main language, and based on this right, the Jews used Hebrew as their primary education. Then let's put him on the table. Let's put him to bed whichever one you agree to. If you call it the Barcelona Language Declaration, if you call it Mem û Zin. If you call it Saladdin Ayyubi. So, what's left of it? What is the matter with you? Where's he gonna run to? How far and how far? Yes, now, let's get Saidi Nursel on the table. Let's accept him as a referee with his pros and cons. In his own words, I'm thinking of starting a university in Kurdistan under the name of Medrese-t-uz Zahra. Let this university be the sister of Ezher University in Cairo. And I'm going to do three language education languages here. In its own formulation -- it says, "I need the language of Arabi, I need the language of Turki, I need the language of Kurdi." So in college, these three languages will be together. Let's accept him as a referee. But what did they do? They said, "Saidi Nursi has gone mad." They put him in an asylum in Istanbul, arranged three doctors, and planted one in the head of the chief of the three doctors. Send out a crazy report on Sadi Kurdi. They said that no one, especially Kurds, would mind what he said. Three doctors signed it mercilessly, the report, the insanity report. The head of the delegation left, had a little chat, and had to confess when he came out: "If Saidi Kurdi is mad, there is not a wise man left in this country. " He had to admit it. Let's put him on the table as the referee.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0157par0129	It's the Abdulhamit period.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0156par0130	Yes, during the Abdulhamit period. Let's say that. Then, beyond the Turkish Language Foundation, I look at the Turkish Historical Society, time is short. Friends, the mission of the Turkish Historical Society is not simply to write to him by official ideology, and you will write to him, you will not write, you will not write, you will not write, you will not write, you will not write, you will not write, or you will not say, or you will not say. Look, in 1071, one of the turning points of the Kurdish Turkish brotherhood, in the Battle of Malazgirt... why am I saying this? The president of the previous Turkish Historical Institution , held a symposium in history with the title of Kurds and Turks -- half of its ears were pulled out -- and there he said in the press statement: "We were Kurds when we arrived in Anatolia in 1071."
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0158par0133	There was Byzantine.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0156par0134	There was, there was Byzantine. There were Kurds. The Byzantines were already fighting Alparslan and his forces. And what happened? There were Kurds at that time. The people he called the Kurdish dynasty, which ruled in the name of Amid, Diyarbakır and Mejafrakini, or Silvan, the Kurdish dynasty. In another speech, I told you, 10,000 elite soldiers offered to the Alparslan forces the House of Marwani. All of these soldiers were the elite Kurdish soldiers guarding Diyarbakır's walls and the surrounding area of Silvan (Salazgirt), and that is how the Battle of Malazgirt was won.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0159par0135	You measured the skull, how do you know they're all Kurds?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0156par0136	It's in the sources. I'll tell you the name of the sources...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0159par0137	We know the source.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0160par0138	Which source is that, what source?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0156par0139	Thitiqu Ibni ebu'l Heyca, Kurdish writer. The second is Turkish writer Sübt Ibt Al-Güfül Cevzî, whose work is called "Miracü Zaman". I'll transfer it to you. Turkmen writer, Turkish writer. One is a Turkish writer, one is a Kurdish writer. It's written loud and clear there. I'll never, ever speak as an academic; you'll never hear a word out of my mouth unless it's documented and veiled.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0161par0140	Do you speak Kurdish?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0162par0141	Teacher, can you count the brothers of Saladin Ayyubi?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0163par0142	Congressmans, please, we're listening to the speaker.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0164par0143	And the second turning point, in the time of Yavuz Sultan Selim, with pros and cons, is also the pros and cons of Yavuz. He's got negatives about the Alekis and what they call the Redheads at the time, which are impossible to accept.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0165par0144	Why are you judging history? Who are you to judge us? Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0164par0145	But the pros should not be denied or neglected. One of these pros was Idrisi Bitli's initiative -- which our Prime Minister referred to as his spirit -- which gave Kurdish tribes a status that could be considered almost independent, as Kurdish dignitaries, and they built their mosques, built their mosques, trained in their primary language. Come on, let's put him on the table as a referee.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0166par0146	Put in Professor Ahmet Burhan's book, and put in the Border Languages Theory.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0164par0147	Yeah, let's put these on the table. I mean, I don't know who else you'll accept as referee? And I told you the Seljucians we were proud of when it came to it, I told you, I told you the Ottomans, if you're taking them for example, let's put them to bed. Oh, well, there are also Mongols in the history books, which are considered the third category of the Turks' ancestors, but let's not put them on the table; they're of no use to you or to us in history. So let's put them on the sidelines. And unfortunately, whenever we asked for a basic language education or a small status, they didn't survive the execution, including Kurds and their occupation. Here's Sheikh Abdussalam Barzani. In 1907, Duhok was gathered at the home of Sheikh Nur Muhammad Birifkani. He publishes a seven-point headshot and sends a copy of this check to Babiali. What? There's seven items in there. I won't read it all, I don't have time. One of them has to do with basic language education, and one of them has to do with governors, judges, prosecutors, trustees, Kurdish-speaking people who live in Kurdish, if possible. However, the Sheikh Abdussalam Barzani followed then -- the 1907 mentality -- until 1914, and promised great rewards to him who brought him back alive or dead. Finally, Sheikh Abdussalam Barzani was executed by order of Süleyman Nazif. A Kurdish from Diyarbakir and the Governor of Mosul on that day. Sheikh Nur Mohammed Birifkani, who was then thrown into the same dungeon, is also dying, preventing him from sending his body to Duhok. Why? Because if the body of Duhok is taken there, the Kurds will visit it, they will gather there, they will bring other things to us. Saidi Nursi's funeral, buried in Urbana Balıkligöl, has been seen many times, at most five feet [5 m] in the grave, and his pirately funeral is still in a place we don't know. Well, friends, it's not about whether or not he's a Muslim. The Muslim Kurds, sheiks, ulema have made these demands, executed, their funerals taken pirately; the same is seen to be appropriate for those who do not put the Islamic case first, and those who put the secular structure first. Well, it doesn't do you any good with Islamic identities, it doesn't do you any good with secular identities. So, where do we get you a third persona, and where do we get it from? Let me finish with the word of Saladin Ayyubi. Look, when Jerusalem is conquered and the first Friday prayer is performed, it speaks and begins in the law and says, [[x]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And Saladin Ayyubi said to him: "If only you had added this sentence: I wish you would have added this: I mean, praise be to Allah who has made the Kurds saints with Islam. So let's put aside the Kurds, the Kurds, Islam, the rest of the beliefs, and give them whatever rights they need to be given, and let's just say that you're safe, and so on.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0167par0158	Let's split up, right?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0168par0159	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. What is your request, Mr. Akçay?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0169par0161	According to Article 60, Mr. President, a brief statement from my position...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0168par0162	Here you go, Mr. Akçay. I won't give you time, Idris Baluken gets angry.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0169par0166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Adıyaman, who was just speaking on the stand, made some descriptions of the Article 66 of the Constitution, such as the racist, in denial, and the freak. In this regard, I would like to say that this, in fact, is basically an insult to complete Turkish identity, Turkish national identity. And I accuse him of racism. The expression written in our constitution is not the name of any ethnic identity, but the historical, legal, political and cultural name of our nation, which is a symbol of honor. Of course, we also know the leaders who say, "Don't come up against us in Turkish, don't come up against me." The nation is a group of people who share in happiness, who have been destined for hundreds of years, who have a lot in common, a lot in common, a lot in common, a lot of will to live in common. ▪ The nation is not an artificial being built. Our history is one, our homeland is one, our flag is one, our state is one. Lords, the name of this nation is the Turkish nation. Our country is Turkey. Our state is the Republic of Turkey. Our flag is the Turkish flag. Our music is a song. Our language is Turkish. I found it appropriate to express them. Thank you for your promise. My respects.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0170par0172	Thank you, too. Mr. Adıyaman...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0171par0174	Sir, Mr. Vice President of the group has been taunting me by mentioning my name and condemning me.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0170par0175	Did he say your name or yours?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0172par0176	He accused me of racism, yes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0173par0177	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0170par0178	I thought he said the teacher's name, that's why.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0173par0179	But to this statement, Mr. Adıyaman, because you accused the 66th article of racism.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0170par0180	Here you go. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0174par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, of course the people's description, the general, abstract description, may all lawmakers agree, there's no problem here. In general in most parts of the world, it's like fate, worry, pride, historical and cultural unity, shared geography. But nowhere else is the recipe for a certain ethnic identity...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0175par0186	Sir, the Turkish nation is not an ethnic group.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0176par0187	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0174par0188	There is no description of a specific ethnic identity based on its judgment on other identities. If so, then the concept of the nation is based on a certain ethnitism. If we're just describing the Turkish identity of the 66th article for those of us who are citizens, then where do the Turkmen come from, where do the Cossacks come from, or where do the Kyrgyzs come from, or the Turks in Thrace? Because if they're not citizens, then they're not from our nation, but if we're describing them through the nation, and they're from the Turkish nation, and they're from Turkey, they're from Turkey, they're from Turkey, they're from Turkey, they're from Turkey, they're from Turkey, they're from Turkey, they're not from Turkey, they're not from Turkey, they're not from the Arabs, they're not from Turkey, they're not from Turkey, they're not from Turkey. Let's make this recipe clear like this. Otherwise, we're going to impose Turkish etnisity, Turkish ethnic identity on all other property as a concept of the nation, and we're going to impose our history on Ergenekon, Central Asia, Cossacks, Kirgziz... or, simply, we're going to see the Kurds in Syria as enemies, but we're going to see the Turks there. Who can describe the concept of such a nation, and who can describe it?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0175par0189	Yeah, it's all over the West. Take a look, for God's sake, read a nation's history!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0174par0190	So, if we define the concept of the nation through Turkishness, of course what the President means...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0177par0191	So we're giving up Turkish?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0174par0192	But then it wouldn't be that you don't have Turkish elements in Turkey...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0178par0194	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0174par0195	...you can't change any of them according to Article 66, you can't Turkify them. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0178par0198	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0179par0199	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0178par0200	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0179par0201	Mr. President, I beg you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0178par0202	If you'll excuse me a moment, I'll make a promise to Mr. Bostanci, and then I'll listen to you. Yes, Mr. Bostanci, what is your request?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0180par0206	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, in order to make some statements regarding the speech Mr. Yıldırım had just made, and to express our objections to the brotherhood of the people in this country, as opposed to the views expressed by Mr. Yıldırım, our understanding of what was done about the brotherhood and our objections to its speech in this framework. It's not enough to wish and demand the brotherhood of people in this country. And to make it real, you have to investigate democracy and freedoms. That's basically what Turkey is doing, and that's what we, as a political delegation, are trying to do together: opposition, power, all of us. I'll put aside the differences between our understandings. It's terror that threatens the brotherhood of people in this country, that makes them enemies, that can be dealt with on this democratic ground, that can be dealt with, that can be dealt with in a manner that is appropriate in the way that the Assembly is meant to be dealt with in a manner that is a problem, a crisis. Turkey has been fighting an ethnic terror for thirty years. It is terror that defies the brotherhood that prevents these issues from being resolved on democratic grounds. The Kurdish issue is also the biggest obstacle to resolving people's brotherhood, as we call it and talk about it a lot. Therefore, whoever strengthens the democratic ground and contributes from the perspective of freedoms here to the processes will also contribute to the solution of problems. I just wanted to make that clear. Second, from the long life of Saidi Nursi, any meaning, any action, any expression can be taken out of the context of the ethnic identityist approach expressed by Mr. Yıldırım. There are various studies of his life. There's a study of two people from the last communications broadcasts, and it can be looked at. So there is no such evidence in the life of Saidi Nursi. Thirdly, when connecting history with today, it is clear that this bonding work must be done with care and care. Ethnic I.D.'s every idea is basically history looting and looting, and you have to avoid it. You have to read history on your own terms; even words have history, even feelings have history. So what happened in the past, what we're doing today, it's like it's not that long ago, people's understanding, their approach has not changed, it's very wrong to miss all of this and make a historical time collapse and connect that time. In that frame, I find that the fact that you don't read the history of today's nationalist, ethnicist, political research, which could mean looting and looting, is not only historical, but I don't see it as right and proper work for the people in this country. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0181par0214	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0182par0215	Mr. President... I'll give you my word, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0181par0217	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0183par0218	Mr. President, as the speaker responded without taunting... the main and axis of my speech was about the interpretation of the Constitution's 66th Amendment, which was based on the reference to him, but was answered out of context. I want two minutes of collusion.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0181par0219	Now, nothing has been said about you and your group, Mr. Akçay, and since there are academics involved, we're having a good discussion, but we need to put a point somewhere because we have an agenda. Nothing's been said about you, nothing's been said about your group.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0183par0220	Now, Mr. President, of course, there's no bullying of our own.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0181par0221	Mr. Akçay, look, everyone is talking, and I promise you your place, and I promise Mr. Yıldırım. Let's end this discussion here, and I'm in for hours of discussion on another floor, please. You speak, Mr. Akçay, and then I'll give it to Mr. Yıldırım, and we'll end it, because certain figures have begun to be made. We've got an agenda, I've made a lot of use for myself. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0183par0224	Now, thank you, Mr. President. In particular, these debates have been tried for years to impose ethnicism, ethnicism, and ethnic discrimination on the Turkish nation due to an ethnically-based political understanding of new constitutional studies. It's almost 36, 27 ethnic groups that are being talked about by a lot of oratories who come up here or on other platforms. It's legal, at least in a cultural sense, so we can say that most of them have good intentions, but constantly emphasising ethnitis is separatism. So you have to avoid it with care. It's racist to always emphasise ethics, so let everyone know that. I mean, in some places, racism is attributed to concepts that don't exist, but it's really ethnicism.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0181par0226	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0183par0227	Therefore, the Article 66 of the Constitution is here. The Constitution is a legal text, based on which it has made a determination, and it is true.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0181par0228	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0183par0229	In other articles of the Constitution, racism has already been openly rejected and banned in Article 10 of the Constitution. Punishment is forbidden in our laws. So, it's not like... it's racist and it's racist and it's the right concept.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0181par0230	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0183par0231	You have to be careful with that. In terms of national unity and unity, this is extremely important for our common values. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0181par0233	Thank you. Mr. Yıldırım, what is your request?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0184par0235	May I?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0181par0236	You tell me what you want.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0184par0237	Mr. Naci Bostancı, my assessment of Saidi Nursi, perhaps due to my lack of testimony, is an assessment of what I don't mean...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0181par0238	Then let's do this, Mr. Yıldırım. I've always promised you a place, so I'll turn on the microphone, and you can say what you think about it through the microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0184par0240	If possible, I'd like to address...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0181par0241	No friends came to the stand.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0184par0242	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0181par0243	I won't give you any time, I'll give you two minutes. We're having a historical and sociological discussion. Don't let any more tensions come to fruition. It was a process we all took advantage of.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0185par0244	This isn't a conference room, Mr. President, this is the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0181par0245	I'll give you two minutes, and I'm done.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0186par0246	Okay.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0181par0247	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0186par0249	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I didn't say that Saidi Nursi was first interested in studying these languages at Medresetuzzehra University for an ethnic purpose. Look, this nationalism is divided by Saidi Nursi, which means itself, categorizes it: it's nationalism, it's nationalism. Why am I saying this? Because sometimes we, sometimes in the MHP, sometimes others are accused of the concept of nationalism. Nationalism is one thing, racism is another. The Holy Prophet says that he is opposed by the expression "trassup," which means that he is not one of us who dies on racism. It is one thing to love his people -- whatever that nation -- to love his language, to express his persecution is another thing, to be racist or menial on ethnic identity. We need to separate these two concepts because it says that racism, nationalism, which the Holy Prophet opposes, is already called.................................................................................................................... So neither the Arab has the Arab, nor the Arab has the Arab, nor the black, nor the white, nor the black, nor the black, nor the other has the upper hand, he says. Those who think they're superior are racist, but those who advocate these colors and the persecution of these nations are not racist. On the contrary, there's this beautiful expression of Saidi Nursi. I'm finishing with it if you don't interrupt me. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He says: "The idea is the price of freedom of nationality, which means freedom is born of free nationality, which means that in a human being there is a risk to the freedom and freedom of the nation if there is no emotion against its nation.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0187par0253	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0188par0254	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0187par0255	I'll set up a panel on this, Mr. Baluken, if that's acceptable. We'll set up a panel as Congress, discuss it outside. Now, let's continue with the other conversations and the agenda.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0188par0257	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0187par0258	You have something to say about that?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0188par0259	Yeah, yeah, about that.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0187par0260	Mr. Baluken, we've had enough arguing.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0188par0261	There's been some bullying at our party, so I'll give you one or two things.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0187par0262	Mr. Baluken, if you'd be so kind as to take your word for it later, because there's been enough talk.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0188par0263	Mr. President, I mean, racistly...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0187par0264	Yes, yes, yes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0188par0265	...as a spokesman for a group accused of ethnic nationalism...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0187par0266	But he answered, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0188par0267	No, Mr. Kadri has responded to his own personal situation.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0187par0268	All right, well, let's give it to you. Here you go. I'll turn on the mike. I don't turn it down, I don't line it up, you get angry.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0188par0270	Mr. President, I mean, we have no intention of deepening the discussion on this issue, but we want to express that we have never accepted the concept of pushing everyone to all political parties over Article 66 of the Constitution to accept a Turkish definition. Each of the four political parties may have different views, different proposals. This, you know, is one of the most important issues discussed in the Constitutional Compromise Commission. If the AKP government hadn't knocked over the constitutional table in the 24th Legislature as well as in this 26th Legislature, political parties could have had a much more detailed discussion there. As the People's Democratic Party, we don't find it right to have an understanding that tries to force us to become Turks based on a definition of citizenship. A coercion of ethnic definitions, a non-approved ethnic definition, is already all the problems we've been having for 90 years. We believe that this should be supported either by the definition of the Republic of Turkey as a constraint, or necessarily by the definition of etnisity, which includes all the peoples of Anatolia, Mesopotamia, Turkey, in the Kurdistan geography. And when we say that, we never do racism, we never do ethnic nationalism, we reject both racism and the definition of ethnic nationalism.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0189par0271	You're doing a good job of racism.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0188par0272	If there's any pressure on Kurdish, Kurdish, or Kurdish, if there's any pressure on Laz. If there's any pressure on Lazcan, Circezartic, it's not racism to say it, it's the plural identity against racism or ethnic nationalism, it's the plural definition of democracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0190par0274	Thank you. 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board Final Account for Central Management 2014 THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2016 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2014 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Presidency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2014 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2014 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2016 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2014 "I") "Turkish History Building" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Historical Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Administration Final Account for 2014 Now, on behalf of the group, the speakers of the Justice and Development Party. Mr. Mustafa War is the first speaker of the Justice and Development Party. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time has been five minutes, Mustafa Bey.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0191par0322	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group over the Treasury Undersecretary's budget in the 2016 Budget Bill talks. I hereby salute your high council. I'd like to point out that the Treasury Undersecretary, one of the most important actors in our country's economic administration, has a very important role in ensuring and sustaining economic stability. In addition, the Treasury Undersecretary manages the public's financial assets and obligations in co-operation with all the actors of the economy, in line with the aims of ensuring sustainable development and maintaining financial stability. The Turkish economy continues to grow steadily during a period of risks and uncertainty related to the global economy. Thanks to reforms in the last 13 years, the Turkish economy has achieved macroeconomic stability. With political stability, reforms, discipline in public finance, and the harmonised monetary policies have led Turkey to a positive separation from many developed and developing countries in the post-global crisis period. The programme, established after the election last year in November, was established by our 64th government, which once again revealed how determined the EC PARTY governments were at the point of reforms. The Turkish economy, which averaged 3 per cent during the 1993-2000 period, averaged 4.8 per cent growth performance during 2003-2014. Turkey's economy grew by 3.4 per cent during January-September 2015 in a highly fragile environment of global markets. With political stability achieved in the last quarter of the year, growth is estimated to take place by 4% throughout 2015. In view of our country's economy's last 13 years of performance, growth seems to be creating jobs, reducing poverty, improving revenue distribution. While problems still remain in the employment market in the global economy, especially in developed countries, employment in Turkey has increased by 6.9 million people from late 2007 to September 2015, while there have been about 3.3 million jobs lost in the European region at the same time. Dear lawmakers, the extremely high inflation period that once rose to three-digit levels is far behind. In 2002, consumer prices declined inflation from 29.8 per cent to 8.8 per cent in 2015. We predict that inflation will be reduced to 7.5 per cent in 2016 and 5 per cent in 2018, due to strict money and cautious financial policies in the coming period. Before our governments, there were serious concerns about debt sustainability in our country, but now we are an international example of public balances and public debt. In 2002, the central management budget was spent on tax revenues -- 85.7 of 100 liras -- to pay interest, while the rate was reduced to about 13 per cent today. This makes it very clear that the interest budget has been transferred from the service budget to the service budget. Thus, there has been a significant improvement in the quality of our budget, and more financial spaces have been created for investments and social spending. Mr. President, the US Treasury Undersecretary, which has been a major contributor to Turkey's economy's strong rise in recent years and has contributed to the development of the economy, will be determined to continue the economic stability and the continuation of fiscal discipline, as it has been so far. I wish the Treasury Undersecretary's budget for 2016 to be good for our country, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0192par0335	Thank you, Mr. War. The second speaker of the Justice and Development Party Group is Bayburt MP Şahab Kavioğlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0193par0339	Thank you. Mr. President, Dear Minister, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. I have a pledge to speak for the AK PARTY Group on the BDK budget. It's been 19 years since February 28th postmodern coup. This process that soldiers have begun to overthrow the elected government has led to major damage to the state and society. In addition to being a postmodern coup, those responsible for February 28th, a number of politicians at the time, a group of organizations, other organizations, media and soldiers, which we refer to as "the five" gang. With their briefings, the soldiers have begun one of the darkest periods in the history of Turkey, by preparing media, judicial and civil society organizations to hunt witches. The elected government was brought down by the games of the dark forces. The enemies of Turkey, who had the opportunity to do so, siphoned billions of dollars through confiscated banks and filled their pockets. The proof is that the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Commission for Investigation on Impacts Investigation declares the cost of February 28th to the Turkish economy at around $148 billion. As a result, the country's economy, which has recovered with the late Erbakan, has suffered a major blow, and the capital of Anatolia has been cut off. On this occasion, the Prime Minister of the 54th Reich, the late Professor Necmettin Erbakan, who has devoted his life to our cause, is also at his mercy. Dear lawmakers, at that time, our banking sector suffered many crises for years of instigation, lack of authority, political uncertainty. The Banking Editing and Control Board, founded in 1999, was only launched in 2000, and the gift of February 28 was found in its lap by November 2000 and February 2001. See, from 1997 to 2002, 22 banks were transferred to the Savings Fund, which cost the state over $100 billion in interest, taxes and real sectors that day. Can you imagine, by 2003, when about 30 banks were sold out in the form of liquidation or bankruptcy, after 2003, they became an appetite for powerful political powers - powerful AK PARTI -- with powerful AK PARTI powers. The financial structures of all banks were corrupted before 2002, for reasons such as the failure of public banks to pay on time, for weaknesses in their administration, for funding the private sector's government and its bosses. In 2001, the transfer of funds to public banks based solely on the loss of duty is 25 quadrillion with the old money. At the same time, public banks, which needed capital in addition to the bankrupt banks, were again funded by 3 quadrillion non-cads -- the old money -- with capital, and 326 trillion in cash -- again with old money. Look, these public banks are now moving money into the treasury. With the purchase of private sector banks by foreigners, foreign currency has been introduced to the country, and significant profits have been transferred to the treasury through public banks' profits and public supply. Only the money the Halkbank transferred to the treasure during this period is 15 quadrillion with the old money. Congressmans, I'd like to present to you some of the ramios. In 2002, bank assets in the European Union had an GDP rate of 259 per cent, while ours was 60 per cent. As of 2015, it has now reached more than 130 per cent of the world's banks and has recently entered the sector by buying a bank in the World's largest active-sized Commercial Bank of China Limited Turkey. This is an admirable situation in the banking sector in Turkey. On this occasion, I salute you all, and wish you the best of the 2016 budget for our country.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0194par0349	Thank you, Mr. Kavacioglu. Manisa MP Recai Berber will speak as the third speaker of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Barber. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0195par0354	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding the budget and capital markets of the Capital Market Board in the 2016 Central Management Budget Bill's talks. I salute all of you, your grand delegation, and our dear citizens who watch us on the screens. I would also like to thank our friends of the Plan and Budget Commission, who have led this bill to the General Assembly as a result of intense and selfless work, to all our ministers and all the officials who have gone through it, especially our Finance Minister. Dear friends, today is February 28th. A lot of people have been doing evaluations since this morning. Nineteen years ago, our country unfortunately suffered the latest postmodern coup in the history of the republic. Yesterday was the anniversary of the death of Professor Dr. Necmettin Erbakan, the prime minister of this coup. Today (February 28th) will continue for a thousand years. No one remembers the coupters, but on November 3, 2002, our nation, who thought that the coups had been done to him on his own will and knew it, closed that period and buried it in history. Since then, the silent revolution of the AK PARTI authorities has left no trace of that period, but the man who defended it, the great Mujahid Erbakan Hodja, with great gratitude and gratitude, our nation continues to remember. Dear friends, why is this so important? Because if there's no two things in one country, there's no two things in the country, there's no capital market, there's no market economy, there's no market economy. The development of capital markets is entirely dependent on democracy in that country; two, law, order of law. If these have been put on the shelf at that time, and unfortunately, they've both been put on the shelf -- the hauls, the robberies -- the result: the greatest political, economic crisis this nation has experienced since World War II. The collapse and crisis that this economic crisis has caused our nation... that's when the AK PARTI governments were first restored and restored. Dear friends, of course, you know, in 2008, the world has been having the biggest crisis since the depression of 1929, and after that period of crisis, this crisis, especially in developed countries around the world, continues to affect developing countries and now the whole world. In particular, however, the United States has recovered as a result of enlargementary policies taken by the United States (US) at the centre of the crisis. Last year, the US economy, estimated to grow around 2.5 per cent in 2015, is expected to grow 2.6 in 2016. In particular, recent developments in the eurozone have set in motion a new growth momentum with enlargement policies. Last year, 1.5, maybe 1.7 are targeted for growth in 2016, but there have been developing countries that have helped the world's economy to accelerate during the crisis in recent years. In recent years, developing countries have contributed around 3.5 per cent to world growth, while the average of contributions to 2014-2016 has dropped to 2.5. In 2014, 4.6 developing countries are expected to grow 4.3 in 2016, hopefully. Dear friends, especially for geopolitical reasons around us, Turkey is also deeply affected by this, but I want to tell you about our capital markets: we've gained considerable momentum by making a serious change in 2012. In fact, capital markets have both developed in terms of depth and -- I'm celebrating the SPK from here -- today, we have reached the most important point in the EU integration process, with regulations made after the law. All assets available in the capital markets in Turkey today have now become available in the European markets. This is a very important development and phase for Turkey. In particular, capital markets are very important for our companies to reach a number of direct sources, long-term resources, cost-free resources beyond loans. I think we need to make this more developed, and I think the instruments in this matter need to be improved. So capital markets will also be very important for Turkey in the coming period. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish our 2016 budget to be good, and I thank the SPK again from here.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0196par0364	Thank you, Mr. Barber. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Artvin MP, Mr. Israel will speak to the Barracks as the fourth speaker. Here you go, Mr. Barracks.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0197par0368	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Foundation General Directorate. I salute your high council. The foundation is an institutional structure for the needy to share it with the needy, except to seek the pleasure of God. The General Directorate of the Foundations today has not survived, while about 52,000 institutions established during Seljuklu and Ottoman times are also monitoring the establishment, dissolution, control operations of the new foundations and community foundations. Foundations founded for the sake of God have been able to serve society for years or even centuries. AK PARTY has been one of the institutions in which we have been sensitive and important, as has been in every field during our governments. Our General Directorate of the Foundations, which has a long history, has worked hard to claim this glorious and blessed relic and pass it on to future generations. Some 4,500 foundations were restored from 2003 to 15 years ago. In this way, over 2 billion people invested in our country's economy, 76,000 people employed, 625 million dollars in cumulative rent revenues. In early 2003, five or six foundations of the foundation can only be restored, but today it can be restored to up to 500 things a year. Today, we have tried to extend a single hand to our foundation artifacts outside the borders of our country. For one thing, work has been launched in the countries of Cyprus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Bulgaria and Yemen, primarily to uncover the foundations, to identify the inventory of foreign foundations, to project and repair foundation cultural assets. Today there are still traces of Ottoman foundations outside the borders of our country. In 2010 in Yemen, in 2012 in Crimea, and in 2013 in Hungary, the foundation inventory was completed. More than 20,000 needy families are supported by food to meet the benefits of our thousands of foundations today. The disabled receive 565,000 liras in aid to 5,000 disabled persons, while 15,000 students in elementary school and secondary school are also granted scholarships. A change in the Law of the Foundations has also begun to grant scholarships to students of higher education. Between 2014-2015, 5,000 students were granted a $200-a-month scholarship. The foundation is considered by means of such methods as rental, rental for repairs, or construction for floors. With no contribution from the treasury budget, their own income is being restored, and their charities are being maintained. Today, 4,393 properties have been provided for the foundations, with 571 in multiples. 239 leasing models in exchange for immovable construction, as well as 220 foundations, have been repaired in the same way. We're proud of the artifacts and the profession that our economies left to us. And Allah will give them their abode in Paradise, and will give them their reward, and will give them their reward, and will give them their reward in full. The 4,993, which operates today, may the Lord bless the next generation with about 5,000 new foundations and new foundations. We are obliged to pass on this foundation's spirit to new generations, to raise generations to possess the spirit of the foundation. We should bring forth generations who would spend their wealth, their time, their knowledge, and their wealth, only to seek God's pleasure. We must breed generations who enjoy the ministry. We need to raise a happy generation, not in its own interests, but in the joy of those who take advantage of their services and make their faces smile. In this regard, at least in schools, I think it would be helpful for the curriculum to be taught a lesson, to thank those who serve the foundations, to wish the foundation budget of 2016 to be good luck, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0198par0378	Thank you, Mr. Barracks. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Yusuf Whiteıt will speak for him. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Whitey.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0199par0382	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have been promised a second speaker on the budget of the General Directorate of Foundations. I hereby salute your High Council. It is described as a desire for a person to carry his property, and for his own goods, and for his own goods, and for his own goods, and for his own good. The foundation has the pleasure of God, the love of man, and the benefit of the people. Ever since mankind existed, he's needed social assistance, and this feeling has expressed itself in different ways in different societies, as a foundation in our culture. In the Seljukian era, the foundations that won a corporate personality with Islam have given bodies to ashtrays, madrases, taverns, baths and caravansarayes, and have lived as a civilization in Ottoman times. Dear lawmakers, as a result of an ancient civilization, I'd like to give you some examples of the foundations that have become world civilization. If you see a historical inn, bath, caravansaray, fountain, masjit, daruletphal, darulaytam, darulaze, bimarhane, sebil, sebil, fountain, medrese, mall, hospital, where the Balkans, for short, go to the city, the city, the city, the city, the market. Each has its own virtue and its own flow. They're all monuments, they're all masterpieces. We have the greatest wealth with his praises, his thesis, his magnificence, his thuds, his carpets, his rugs, his candlesticks, his knuckles, his manuscript, his Korans. Our economies have established foundations that protect the human personality before the Universal Declaration of Human Rights has yet to come, and the wool foundations are the best examples of that. A group of old women builds a foundation so they don't starve, compensates for the damage. When the world doesn't know about animal rights, our people are building foundations that protect and feed migratory birds. The patient is building foundations that treat storks. He's showing how much he loves and care for animals by calling the cats "darulmiyav," calling the dogs "darulhavhav," building birdhouses. He builds alms, alms foundations. The benefactors leave their alms in the darkness of the night, and the needy take the money they need from there, and they don't know who's buying, or who's giving. The foundation that protects the orphans builds. He's building foundations that take the kids to picnics. There are foundations that pay dowry for girls who can't get married. The servant builds foundations so that women who pay for the vessels that the women have broken may not be harmed. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, as a continuation of this understanding, the University of Fatih Sultan Mehmet Foundation has been founded to fulfill the goals of the foundations that are conditioned by their foundation. The founder of this foundation, the Foundation of Architect Sinan, the Fatih Sultan Mehmet Foundation, and the 2 women Sultan of Nurbanu Valide Sultan and Hatice Sultan Foundation. This university will train future architect Sinan, future line art masters and future lawyers. The foundation is a reminder that in a modern world where one is lonely and strange, he is not alone and a stranger; the smiling face of the poor is the purpose of the rich. Most importantly, the foundation is healing, sometimes hunger, sometimes loneliness, sometimes time, sometimes patients. With that understanding, the University of Bezmilalem was founded in Istanbul again in the name of a lady Sultan. The founder of this university was Bezmilalem Valide Sultan Foundation, the Foundation for Gunfare and the Paradiseplace II. Abdulhamit Sani Foundation. This university will raise physicians with integrity like Ibn Sina. Dear brothers, I would like to say to you a sentence in Fatih's foundation: "When there is a food event, give your people a gun to them." Again, they draw attention to their animal rights. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, I wish you all love and respect that the budgets of the General Directorate of Foundations and all institutions bring blessings to our country and our nation.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0200par0393	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Adana MP Tamer Mountainlı will speak as the sixth speaker. Here you go, Mr. Mountainer. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0201par0398	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I condemn February 28th and so-called coup attempts to delay the development of our nation and our country, and I salute the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the supreme and sole representative of the nation's will. Dear lawmakers, because of its geography, our country often faces natural disasters and acts of terrorism. However, wherever it is in the world, our country, which sees the fate of the oppressed as its own, is not insensitive to any pain. Cataclysms and actions that have caused numerous deaths and massive financial losses also present the need for immediate and conscious intervention. For this purpose, the President of the Disaster and Emergency Management (AFAD) was established by a law adopted in 2009. With the integrated disaster management system, which consists of mission and damage reduction, preparation, intervention, healing phases, the AFAD is making the most extensive preparation possible for a potential disaster with its experienced and knowledgeable staff, with state-of-the-art equipment. The Van earthquake, which we experienced in 2011, revealed what an important institution the AFAD (AFAD) was. At the time of the earthquake, AFAD immediately dispatched 3,200 personnel to the earthquake site within 24 hours, causing 252 of our citizens to survive the collapse. At the same time, in twenty-four hours, 9,000 tents, 25,000 blankets, 4,000 stoves were delivered to the victims. Not only is the work done just after the earthquake, but the responsibility of the AFAD (AFAD) in the reconstruction of the van (AFAD) is also admirable. The AFAD continues to support the oppressed, wherever it is in the world, as well as the disasters in Syria, Somalia, Myanmar, Palestine and the Balkan countries. The AFAD, in its service to our Syrian brothers, who were forced to flee because of persecution in their country, is, in its own words, flattering. Following its humanitarian and conscientious mission, Turkey has hosted 2.6 million Syrians and established 26 temporary housing centres through the AFAD. In these centers, 300,000 Syrian needs have been met, not only physically but also psychologically. It still fulfills this social responsibility. Of course, it is not in vain for the United Nations to award the best public service award to temporary housing centres established by AFAD in 2015. Health care is provided at temporary housing centres free of charge through the Ministry of Health. So far, these guests have been given 330,000 surgeries, 11.5 million clinic services. Unlike the European countries, the implementation of $9 billion in humanitarian aid between our Syrian brothers, religion, language, race, education, shows Turkey's importance to human and conscientious responsibility. Again, the terrorist organisation has provided food for our citizens with AFAD Reda in our provinces and districts under curfew due to operations to clear the PKK and its extensions and to establish public order. We also provide training and psychological support for young people who have suffered from terrorism in this region through AFAD. At the same time, the first intervention in the collapse of last week's campaign against terrorism was carried out by the AFAD, and four of our soldiers were taken out of the cave-in. And there we had three martyrs. I hereby ask for God's mercy on our martyrs, I condemn those who support terrorism and terrorism, and I say to those who place their backs on terrorism: Even though you cannot say that the PKK is a terrorist, even if you support the destruction of this country, the destruction of this country, the destruction of this country, and the destruction of this country, know that we will ensure the restoration of this country to the end. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I thank you, all of you, and I say God be with you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0202par0409	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0203par0410	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0202par0411	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0203par0412	Mr. Orator has made some accusations about us and our party as we speak. I want a say in sarcasm.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0204par0414	He meant the PKK.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0205par0415	He meant the PKK.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0206par0416	Where did he say?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0207par0417	Mr. Demirel, the speaker said: "Why have you been taken over by those who put their backs to terror, those who support terrorism?"
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0208par0418	He said terror.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0209par0419	Do you accept?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0210par0420	Why are you so offended?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0211par0421	Why do you take on every word of terror?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0212par0422	Why are you so offended?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0213par0423	Is that you?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0214par0424	Who are these politicians? To whom do they say these words, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0215par0425	If you're offended, I'll give you two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0214par0426	Who are these politicians, who are these politicians, who have they been told so far?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0216par0427	Why are you so offended?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0215par0428	Then you'll ask him, he'll explain.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0214par0429	Okay, I'm waiting for him to explain, who he meant.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0215par0430	Okay, let's see who you mean.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0217par0431	It curses the general, mostly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0218par0432	The one with the wound is the one with the nose.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0219par0433	I mean those who put their backs to terror, PKK, and NYD.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0220par0435	Okay, bravo!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0221par0436	Tell me who he is, who he is, who he is.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0222par0437	There's nothing to be done, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0221par0438	Then let him be clear, tell us who he is, and not hide it. Then why is he hiding it? Why is he implying it?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0222par0439	That's his problem, I can't tell him anything.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0221par0440	So we're going to use our right to speak, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0222par0441	But you want a word against them, against those who put their backs to PYD or terror?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0223par0442	Then you accept it, and you accept it willingly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0224par0443	He said, "I speak to those who put their backs to terrorist organizations."
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0225par0444	Tell me who you mean. If he doesn't mean us here, we don't have a say.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0226par0445	Why are you offended, Mr. Ironel?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0225par0446	No, let him say who he means, then, let him be clear.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0226par0447	It's his will, I can't insist on telling him.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0225par0448	Okay, then we demand a say in this.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0227par0449	When you say terror, why do you get up and jump?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0226par0450	Okay, so if you're defending PKK and terrorism and you're going to talk about it, come in for two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0227par0452	Oh, go ahead. This is a document, this is a document.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0228par0453	I won't talk about it, I'll tell you what I mean.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0229par0454	Mr. President, those who support terrorism cannot speak on this stand.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0230par0455	He's accepted it, Mr. President. They accepted the PKK's support.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0231par0456	Let's talk for two minutes. Let's see what he has to say.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0232par0460	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0233par0461	This is a document.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0234par0462	Mr. President, how will the defenders of terror speak on the stand?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0232par0463	Mr. President, are you going to shut him up, or...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0235par0464	Okay, lawmakers, would you please shut up, the speaker is on the stand, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0236par0465	We won't shut up.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0237par0466	Those who defend terrorism cannot speak on the stand, Mr. President. He can't speak on the stand, holding his back on terror. He can't speak here on behalf of terror, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0238par0467	We can't lean on P.K.K.K. and P.Y.D., let him say, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0239par0468	Congressmans, the speaker's taken over, there's nothing to do, we'll listen. Please...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0240par0469	But it's very difficult for you to describe it, so it's very inappropriate for you to describe it that way.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0241par0470	How dare he speak in the name of terror!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0242par0471	Mr. President, the President of this country, the Prime Minister of this country...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0243par0472	You can't say their names.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0242par0473	...the AKP government has spoken these words to us openly, saying......
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0244par0474	No, he didn't.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0242par0475	Why doesn't the speaker say anything when he's talking here? Then make it clear. Who's he talking to?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0245par0476	I can't get my back to PKK.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0242par0477	No, I'm gonna say this, not that. I'm gonna say this. At present, there are nearly 200 children and women in Tyre.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0246par0478	You're lying, you're lying. Everything you've said so far is a lie, just like it's a lie.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0242par0479	As he spoke here, he said: "The children and women are in a cave-in. Now, 200 children and women in Tyre are now under collapse with tanks, cannons, and heavy weapons.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0247par0480	You're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0246par0481	Your own fiction, making it up, lying.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0242par0482	Look at the latest news...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0246par0483	We're looking, we're looking. You don't even blush!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0242par0484	... You said lie. You said lie. You said lie.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0248par0485	Tell him, Mr. Speaker, that we are not putting our backs to the PKK.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0242par0486	You said "Liar." You said all 172 people...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0249par0487	Why don't you answer for the deputy who went to the terrorist's funeral?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0242par0488	...and burned to the ground to provide a second Madimmak environment.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0249par0489	28 dead, pay for them! Give me the Ankara bomber's account!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0242par0490	Burned to seven counties and cities, funerals were distributed in coal. These were all civilians.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0250par0491	Say, "We are not putting our backs to the PKK."
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0242par0492	We've named each and every one of them here. You can't say that to these people... who have been elected by the will of this people, elected by 6 million votes and come here to defend democratic politics. We're fighting for democratic politics here today.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0251par0493	Don't do the linguine politics!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0252par0494	You're lying!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0242par0495	What you're doing today is much more than the coup d'état of February 28th. What you're doing today is implementing a product of the exact same blow in 2016. What you did today was a coup on the 28th of February 1997. What are tanks doing here? What are the cannons doing on the wall? Whose houses are they... the PKK's or the HDP's or the tanks' cannons are destroying the houses?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0253par0496	Now he's using you as an extra that organized February 28th. You're the new February 28th extras!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0252par0497	February 28th mentality is your mentality, the same mentality.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0242par0498	Who's the one who washes houses with tanks and cannons? The AKP government is a coup taken by the military... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and you're trying to pin it on the public with this blow.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0254par0501	Your time is up, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0255par0502	You pay for 28 lives first!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0242par0503	I condemn you all.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0256par0505	Down with the PKK!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0257par0506	Down with the PKK!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0258par0507	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0259par0508	You will be judged!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0260par0509	We'll see who's on trial!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0258par0510	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0259par0511	We'll see, you'll be judged! You will be charged with treason!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0258par0512	Mr Enç...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0261par0513	Just as we saw them in 1997, history will show us who are on trial today!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0258par0514	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0262par0515	History will judge you, and this country will!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0263par0516	You're still defending the PKK!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0264par0517	The public sees you, you'll never be elected again. You're all finished, you've fooled me for the last time!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0265par0518	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk to you about something. In his speech, Mr. Mountainese said: "Those who put their backs to the PYD and those who advocate terrorism." I asked you persistently: "Are you going to answer for this? Are you offended?" I said, "You have come persistently, and you have spoken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0266par0520	Yes, it's taken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit03spe0265par0521	I'm saying this and I'm not going to promise anyone that those who support terrorism on this stand, those who put their backs on the PYD or PKK will never speak again, at least not in my administration, I want you to know that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0265par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 47th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks with the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0267par0005	Mr. President, I demand a say in my position.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0265par0006	Sir?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0267par0007	I demand a say in my place, according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0265par0008	On what grounds?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0268par0009	According to 60.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0267par0010	I demand a say in my position according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0265par0011	Okay, here you go. Wait a minute.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0269par0013	Mr. President, why is it one minute when you're in the HDP Group, it's unlimited to the others?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0265par0014	Sorry, sorry, okay. I forgot for a second that you're the vice president of the group, and I'm used to the past. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0270par0017	You don't seem to have forgotten.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0271par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, since the speaker who just spoke from the stand was referring to us as the politicalists, both by looking at our group and by means of the words he expressed, I asked for an answer and asked for an answer because of the bullying. We stick our backs to our people, and we're a party of 6 million people, elected by the people's votes. We're here to do democratic politics.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0272par0023	It's beautiful.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0271par0024	We've said this over and over again here, but I don't accept your statements when I'm on the stand, and I don't accept your statements when I'm closing and when I'm on the stand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0273par0025	We'll ask for the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0271par0026	We'll take another look at these from the transcripts. You are not in a position to comment on this or assess any situation. I asked for word on the speech of the speaker and his taunting us, and you said it would be my request. You did, but we can't solve this problem by drawing it to a different place, trying to make sense of it. I mean, as a group of HDPs, we know very clearly where democratic politics develops here and where we put our backs. The PYD doesn't need us, the PYD is a political party in Syria, but we are a political party in Turkey that has taken 6 million votes with the people of Turkey...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0274par0029	Of course.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0271par0030	...and we're a political party with a group in Parliament.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0274par0031	Of course.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0271par0032	We express our politics here in the House through our rhetoric. It's not just him; he gave me some information about AFAD, about what happened, about what happened, about what happened, but I wanted to go to some of the corrections by saying that it wasn't true, because as someone who lives there, I know how they develop. We also know how the houses were destroyed and burned by whom, through the political process of which we lived. Nobody's got a tank or a ball. Who does? There's only one government tank, one ball, and with this tank, the buildings were destroyed by the cannon. We tried to express them. However, let him enter the AFAD, where there is a curfew at the moment, I tried to express it for Sur. There's a blockade right now, there's a curfew, and I've tried to make it clear that the people there are in danger of life. Otherwise, we, the HDP Group, have made it very clear that we put our backs to our people alone, and we have a firm stance here that allows everyone to express their democratic and free opinion. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0275par0035	And I thank you for that explanation. The previous speaker made a statement in the form of the terrorist organization and the ones who put their backs on the PYD. You asked for a word, and I asked you not to mention the name of your group specifically, why do you want to talk about it? I asked you several times, and you said, "I'm going to talk about it." I thought by referring to us, I mean your group, you would explain that there is no such thing and that you're holding your back -- as you just said -- to our people, but you've given us a different answer. I reacted to it. I'd be so happy, everyone would be so happy, you'd put your backs to your people. Of course, we're dealing with democratic politics, civil politics. I want to thank you for making that statement.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0276par0038	President, I expressed it there...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0275par0039	While I was talking here, I didn't say anything about HDP, I simply expressed my opinion about the terrorist organization. Thank you again, Mr. Ironel, for making your statement.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0277par0041	Mr. President, we'd like to hear the report on this right now.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0275par0042	Sure.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0277par0043	You have no right to comment on a political party in any way other than managing the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0275par0044	That wasn't done. Here, review the transcripts, and we'll do whatever it takes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0277par0045	Once we've examined the records, we'll be clear on who's got their backs to terror.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0275par0046	Okay, go ahead and review the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0277par0047	We're keeping that promise a secret.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0275par0048	After that, here, on the free stand, we'll talk.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0278par0049	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0275par0050	All right, that's enough!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0278par0051	I said the same thing there when I said it, but it wasn't understood because there was a lot of teasing.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0275par0052	Anyway, okay, you've made it clear, now that everything's gone, the problem's gone. Yes, the Justice and Development Party...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0279par0054	Mr. President, may I make a brief statement?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0275par0055	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0280par0056	Oh, my God! We don't know if we're in a symposium, if we're on a panel, if we're in Parliament.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0275par0057	Panel, panel, panel, Mr. Altay. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0281par0060	Mr. President, keeping political parties under suspicion is a basic principle that everyone should pay attention to. The AK PARTY government, the AK PARTY government, is fighting a war against terrorism in certain places; state forces are doing it by hand, by law. It is unacceptable to say that there is a public massacre against women, children, and women that can raise such suspicion in people's minds, which could mean a shield against the existence of the terrorist organization there. HDP has received a vote from 6 million people, owes its legitimacy, has to do its public policy in this framework; it is clear to use a more careful language against the EC PARTY, which has received 25 million votes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0275par0062	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0282par0063	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0275par0064	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0282par0065	I mean, I want to promise not to pick on you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0275par0066	What kind of taunt did he make?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0282par0067	Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) has stated that the information given by HDP (HDP) has completely distorted the fight against terrorism.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0283par0068	It gives such an impression!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0275par0069	Well, then, Mr. Baluken, he'll make a speech to relieve my impression. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0284par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, as of last night, there was an ISIS attack on Tel Abyad, Akchakale, on the border with Rakka, and Turkey. ISIS gangs in Turkey, near the Turkish border, and from Rakka (Rakka) have launched a brutal attack on the people of Rojava to completely drown the gains they've gained there. All the countries have a clear record of this incident, and it'll all be over soon. Again, we talked to the Rojava administration, and they're going to move information on the passing of ISIS gangs across Turkey to the international arena. The president's statement at the airport today in particular also makes a lot of sense. Tel Abyad says 70 per cent of the Abyad is under ISIS control. As far as I can tell, he was given false information about the attack he was planning. Let me put it this way: At this moment, in Tel Abyad, those violent ISIS gangs are completely wiped out, and we welcome the protection of Tel Abyad. We are particularly clear on our position about the issues we have said over and over about ISIS, Al Nusra, and the AKP relationship. I'm not going to repeat the information I've expressed in the past, but in the next few moments, it will be clear to us who is in league with terrorist organizations, whose terrorist organizations are operating in other countries. Hopefully, when they're shared in the international arena, you'll come out here and give us some answers from this bench. Don't worry too much, don't wait, I say we're almost there, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0285par0079	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0286par0080	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0285par0081	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0286par0082	Without knowledge, he spoke to the President in a very unfortunate, inappropriate manner, such as the one who planned, organised, and planned the attack of ISIS in Tel Abyad.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0287par0083	Are you defending ISIS?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0286par0084	This is an open taunt, a taunting of the President of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0287par0085	Does ISIS want to talk about bullying Mr. Bostanci? That's what I figured.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0286par0086	As a Regent, I demand a say in this framework.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0288par0087	To the President... Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0289par0092	Turkey sees ISIS as a terrorist organisation, its approach to Syria with coalition forces is clear.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0290par0093	That's why you're opening the boundaries.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0289par0094	Besides, there's a truce deal, except for El Nusra and ISIS. The government's attitude on this matter is clear.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0290par0095	Did you agree to a truce?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0289par0096	In Tel Abyad, ISIS launched an attack. Mr. Baluken, a man should know his place. The President who plans, organizes. Does a word like that suit you?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0291par0097	Everything suits him, everything!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0289par0098	You put your own existence and legitimacy to six million votes. President of this country, shouldn't you speak with respect? Can you expect self-respect if you do so? You'll be careful. They're doing business with such random, public affairs, doing business. I strongly reject the way they talk. You can make criticisms about various issues regarding the president, but in a certain way, with a certain amount of attention, because if we all owe our legitimacy to the public, he didn't go there on a human assignment, he went there with the people's votes, you'll be careful, everyone will pay attention. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Those who have no accurate knowledge of ISIS are trying to establish an ISIS legend, two sentences, and try to discredit the AK PARTİ (AK). I strongly reject all of this. We have only one approach in Syria, and we are with the oppressed and the innocent. The world knows it, and you must know it. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0292par0104	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0293par0105	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0292par0106	Mr. Baluken, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0293par0107	The vice president of the group has made a statement that I'm being disrespectful.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0294par0109	You did it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0295par0110	You'll come tomorrow, you'll explain it with papers, we'll see.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0293par0111	I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0296par0112	Didn't you say it was disrespectful?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0293par0113	It's teasing.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0296par0114	Here you go. Mr. Baluken, I assume he's going to explain his lack of respect, asked for a word from the tease.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0297par0116	Are you going to apologize?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0298par0117	Then tell the president I didn't disrespect him.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0296par0118	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0299par0120	Yes, as far as I can see, Mr. President, you consider disrespecting lawmakers and political parties a trick.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0298par0121	Disrespect is your profession.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0296par0122	No small talk, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0299par0123	Now, Mr. President, when he came in here and made some allegations, he said that the truce had come into effect in Syria. I don't suppose you're following the Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, we don't know the Prime Minister of this country.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0300par0125	He didn't say that, he didn't say that, don't twist it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0299par0126	We don't know him. Hours after his statement, ISIS launched attacks on Tel Abyad.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0301par0127	No, no, no.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0302par0128	You're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0303par0129	You're lying, you're lying.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0304par0130	The same Prime Minister said, "When a danger arises to El Nusra, Ahrar al-Sham, we will immediately come out and run the rules of Anjajman, we will not drop Azez. Right?"
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0302par0131	You're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0304par0132	We will not reduce the same President, Aziz. A president who acts in the same way as a Prime Minister who sets policy on him -- if I recall, Kobani will also fall down in the Kobani process. He expressed his expectation.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0305par0133	You're twisting, you're twisting.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0304par0134	Now all these things shall fall, and Azez shall not fall. We don't accept the truce in Syria. All the explanations will open the way for the attacks against Tel Abyad. We say it's all gonna come out, and I'm gonna talk more, but let's face it, that's how I'm gonna talk. When you come here to answer me, you have to explain to me what authority Mr. Davutoglu did not accept the ceasefire in Syria based on what task.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0306par0135	Wrong, wrong.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0304par0136	We know him as Prime Minister of Turkey, but his statement should be made by any organization in the war in Syria. So, in this statement, the extension of which organization, which terrorist organization has a political extension is clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0307par0139	Tell me clearly you don't support terrorism. Tell me, tell me clearly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0308par0140	Turkey is a great state, you'll understand that, but you'll be too late.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0304par0141	We'll see who's late. Don't worry, the process is going on, those gangs of yours are getting cleaned up, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0309par0142	I'll make a statement in my place.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0310par0143	Mr. Botanci... Friends, members of lawmakers, your group's vice president has asked for a word, please...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0309par0147	Mr. President, Mr. Baluken has distorted the Prime Minister's statements. We are pleased with the ceasefire in Syria. This is the Prime Minister's statement. If there is any attack on Turkey, the rules of engagement will be enforced, which is the right of Turkey. There are two areas that are kept out of the Syrian truce; one is ISIS, one is Al Nusra, that is the agreement, and essentially, coalition forces will continue to fire against them. Besides, Figrique is also used in this framework, and the coalition planes are here. Mr. Bauken also distorts the truce in Syria, distorts the Prime Minister's speech and tries to create an imaginary world there. I strongly deny it. This is how I want to inform our people of the situation, of the joy. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0311par0151	Thank you. The Minister asked for a word. Mr. Akdoğan, come in.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0312par0155	Mr. President, dear friends, the government's position on this matter is clear. In Geneva talks, Turkey's position in all ongoing talks is also clear and clear. Here, Turkey, in this process -- you know, there are some sides, there are talks -- is not a side. Secondly, the statement has been made to terrorist organizations that this ceasefire is not valid. The PYD and the YPG are a terrorist organization for us. In the event of a threat to Turkey, Turkey has the right to defend its national security under the rules of engagement. The more terrorists the PKK are, the more terrorists the DAİŞ are, the lower the DİŞ, the lower the YPG and the PKK are.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0311par0158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0313par0159	That's your opinion, no one in the world agrees with it. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. President, Mr. Secretary's remarks are his own personal opinion, his political party's opinions.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0311par0162	Mr. Baluken, please no more speeches from now on.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0313par0163	Other than that, right now, there is no state other than the AKP, ISIS, El Nusra that defines the NYD as a terrorist organization. [[From the AK PARTY rows, there are us. The voices, the noises.]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0311par0166	Okay, the Minister has made his statement. I'll give the final speech to Mr. Altay, and we'll move on to our meetings. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0314par0170	Thank you. Mr. President, for the last two hours today, Parliament seems to have lost its working order. It's not that I don't think that you and your management have an effect on this, whether it's intentional or not. First, we need to emphasize that this Parliament is not a place where anyone's patriotism, where they will be tested, where they will be tested, where they will be tested, and when they will not have any such scales. However, there is one thing: there are rules in which everyone in this Parliament and everyone out of this parliament or from this chest are bound to obey, there are rules, there are First Amendments. When we look at it like this, for half an hour, the President has been told about his obligation to respect the President, the need to not discuss him; we want him, and we don't think the President should be discussed. But the President is looking for a formula, a way, a way to argue with himself every day. I don't recognize the President's decision of the Constitutional Court, even if he was elected not by 52 percent, but by 98 per cent. It's not his right or his right to say it, we should underline it. There's democracy here, there's no dictatorship here, this democracy will live forever, I want to stress that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It's a constitutional institution, Constitutional Court. We know that the President said that the High Assembly was a liability to him, and we know that he said that the trial was a liability to him. If it pleases you, Mr. President, there will be legislation in this country, there will be judgment in this country, and you will obey it, you will obey it, you will obey it, you will obey it. It's not the head-breaker who broke Ali, it's because I was elected president by the people's vote; there's no such thing, we never accept it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0315par0175	According to the Constitution, it is the commander-in-chief.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0314par0176	As for manners, politics, I always say, is a matter of courtesy and conscience, but if there's anyone who should be an example of respect for the politicians, it's Mr. President first. Take your mother with the nation's intelligence, with her manners, with her manners. I don't know, let no one expect the President to get the respect he deserves by speaking in a manner that says, "I don't know, this is what I don't know." Second, the president is not criticized. There is no such thing. Ataturk, who founded this republic in this parliament, is being criticized, and who is the President? Of course, we're going to criticize him, and it's not an insult to the president, it's a political criticism, and you're going to accept it. As for Mr. Tamer Dağlı's support point, his back to the terrorist organization: I don't know about the HDP, but I don't know about Tamer Dağlı's speech that he means the 62nd and 63rd government...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0316par0179	Woe to you! Woe to you!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0314par0180	...that the governments of the Republic of Turkey are on the basis of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and ISIS, support, aid and abetting, we will continue to say so. In the coming days, we're going to present legal evidence of this. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0317par0183	You're hallucinating! You're hallucinating!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0318par0184	The President's...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0314par0185	Yeah, me too, Mr. President. Are you his lawyer? And I'm the President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0319par0186	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0318par0187	It's a criticism from the President about the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0314par0188	Last word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0319par0189	You insulted me, and I thought you'd be all right.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0314par0190	Who insulted you?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0319par0191	You. He wants to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0314par0192	You have no right to make such a judgment.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0320par0193	You can't judge like that!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0314par0194	It's a political criticism.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0321par0195	To the group... to the group...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0322par0196	We didn't say it wasn't critical, we talked about respect, respect.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0314par0197	Absolutely not, you can't describe my speech as a punishment.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0321par0198	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0322par0199	Of course, Parliament is critical. We spoke of a respectful manner.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0323par0200	You won't insult me.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0322par0201	Mr. Altay says: "We will criticize the dictator." They already criticize, they say, but it's not enough, you'll accept it. That is my right, Mr. Altay, my right.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0324par0202	You've made a mockery of it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0325par0203	They see themselves in the mirror.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0326par0204	No, you don't, you don't, I do.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0324par0205	Okay, thank you. You've been picking on me, and it's not an insult, okay.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0326par0207	No, Mr. President. You will recant your promise to the record, or I demand a formal discussion.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0324par0209	Okay, you've been picking on me.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0326par0210	I didn't do the bullying, I did the political criticism, yes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0327par0211	He insulted me!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0328par0212	He insulted me!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0329par0213	Look, Mr. Altay, let's not impose on each other like this.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0330par0214	Mr. President, the President is everyone's President, no one's his lawyer.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0329par0215	Look, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0330par0216	We criticize him here; what's natural about it?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0329par0217	Okay, well, wait a minute... Mr. Altay, you've made your point.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0330par0218	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0329par0219	Everyone here has to express their opinion on microphones under certain rules.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0330par0220	Okay, it's okay, yeah.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0329par0221	Don't push me. You'll get your word back.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0330par0222	I demand it, I demand it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0329par0223	I'm just telling you, look...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0330par0224	I'm inviting you to follow the M.O.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0329par0225	I'm telling you, it's not an insult, it's a slip of the tongue...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0330par0226	Okay, that's it, that's it. You'll just have to learn how to slip my tongue.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0329par0227	I was going to say that he made a promise that you had made a mockery of him. Please, no one is to impose on anyone.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0330par0228	I'm not pushing you, Mr. President. You agreed, it's over.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0329par0229	Look, we're talking, we'll talk.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0330par0230	But, okay, you deserve it. You can't call me that.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0329par0231	We'll talk about it. Please, let's not yell. And don't let anyone think we'll get more rest when we raise our voices.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0330par0233	I'm screaming for a cold, I can't hear my voice, Mr. President. 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board Final Account for Central Management 2014 THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2016 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2014 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Presidency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2014 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2014 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2016 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2014 "I") "Turkish History Building" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Historical Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Administration Final Account for 2014
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0331par0277	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the seventh speaker is Antalya MP Mr. Atay Aldı. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0332par0280	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I've made a commitment to the AFAD budget. There are three stages of crisis management. One: management of risk. Two: intervention in crisis. Three, humanitarian aid. The 1999 Marmara earthquake has changed Turkey's view of disaster management, and it has become a national for us. During the Marmara earthquake, a major lack of coordination has occurred in relief activities. Search and rescue teams were able to start working days later. A lot of people haven't been pulled out of the wreckage for months. The ministers and the Prime Minister of the earthquake site 250km away have not been able to reach it for days. A year after the earthquake, people still lived in tents.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0333par0282	It was built in a year. Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0332par0283	Two years later, construction was not terminated because the World Bank couldn't get a loan. A new disaster paradigm after this disaster has been enforced and AFAD has been established. Van's earthquake was the first serious test of AFAD. He has passed this test successfully, AFAD. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who was Prime Minister at the time, arrived four and a half hours after the earthquake, came to Van Tayyipa and Ercish, and ruled the crisis in its place. In the first three months, 75,000 tents were removed and replaced by 175 thousand container cities. A year later, 15,000 dwellings were handed over to victims, despite the cold, minus 20 degrees [20 degrees], and 25,000 dwellings at the end of the 15 months. This success is the success of our nation, this success is the success of our state, this success is the success of institutions. Of course, the zeroth minute that interferes with disasters is crucial...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0334par0286	I'll make a statement from the bench.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0335par0287	Mr. Speaker, one moment... Mr. Special, could you please shut your friend up?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0334par0289	I'll explain.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0335par0290	Go ahead, Mr. Speaker, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0336par0291	There's a speaker on the stand! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0337par0292	Mr. President, is there such a procedure? He's talking on the stand there!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0336par0293	Where did you come from? What's going on? Where did you come from? Is this your first time in the House?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0338par0294	Congressmans, your group vice president just said that we should act in this Parliament according to the rules. Please... I'll add it to your time, go ahead, I'll add it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0339par0296	Mr. President, I'd like to move the clock forward.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0338par0297	One minute to add to your time. Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0340par0299	You're probably the first to come to the House, General Kurula!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0341par0300	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0338par0302	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0341par0303	I have a statement to make.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0342par0304	Sit down, sit down!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit04spe0338par0305	Mr. Speaker, I'm going to reboot your time. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0338par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 47th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks with the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, I call to the stand again Mr. Atay Besli.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0343par0007	Pick up where he left off.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0344par0008	It'll start over.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0338par0009	We'll start over. Thank you, Mr. Special. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0345par0012	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation again. In fact, I was in charge of both the Syrian events before and the Van earthquake. I speak based on what I have to tell you about AFAD. I just told you, but I want to rephrase. After the Marmara earthquake, Turkey went to a paradigm change, and a success was achieved in Van. The Prime Minister of the period, our current President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, came to Vana four and a half hours later, came to Ercish, led the crisis in his place. We built 75,000 tents in the first three months, moved to container cities where 175 thousand people lived, and at the end of three months, we built 15,000 dwellings in the cold, minus 20 degrees Celsius, at the end of the year, and at the end of the 15th month there were 25,000 dwellings, delivered to the victims. As I said, this was the success of our nation, our state and Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, as important as planning the zeroth minute of disasters, risk management, instead of crisis management, is risk management. I mean, more important than covering wounds, not getting hurt. And AFAD's been working on it. As part of the disaster-ready Turkey project, he trained 5 million students in disaster training. Again, our urban transformation studies are a work of risk management. Dear President, members of lawmakers, another issue is humanitarian aid. Today we come to the top of the world's most humanitarian countries. Now, there's not a Turkey that's getting help, there's a Turkey that's helping. We are a country that provides humanitarian aid and urgent assistance to 54 countries on five continents. When it comes to humanitarian aid, it's about Syrian citizens, asylum seekers. We have not opened our doors, but we have opened our hearts to our Syrian brothers, who fled from war and the persecution of the cruel Assad. We are now hosting 2,650,000 people in Turkey. In Kobani, at the end of the conflicts in Ayn al-Arabah, we accepted 150,000 refugees into Turkey within 72 hours. The cruel regime didn't even give ID cards to our brothers there because of their ethnicity. Without looking at their ID cards and IDs, we opened our borders and opened our hearts. I was in charge of that process, too. During that transition, the oppressed asked us for something, and they said: "Our only possession is our cows and sheep, will you take them?" The minister referred the matter to the concerned minister and the minister to our Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. Mr. Prime Minister gave us an order that night, he said: "Buy the cows and sheep of our Syrian brothers, pay in advance, then, at the end of health inspection, cut off those animals and serve their meat to our guests." Here, crisis management. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Here's the human look; here's the leader; here's the great Turkey. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are in a state of panic about human rights, refugee rights while we're in this situation. Instead of obeying the Geneva Convention, they close their doors, causing the Mediterranean to become the world's largest cemetery, and within Europe, the hostility of asylum seekers has reached a severe stage. Last year in Germany there were 800 attacks on refugee centers; Wales is wearing red bracelets; Norway is being placed in the poles; Denmark has seized the valuables of refugees; even the Belgian Minister of Migration says to his Greek counterpart, "Spare the arrivals into the sea." Yeah, where's the conscience, where's the law? Today, indeed, European conscience, law, and human rights are behind medieval Europe. Spain says it will only accept 130 refugees, officially only 19 refugees are accepted in France now; whereas 150 Syrian children are born every day in Turkey, with some 100,000 people living with 120,000 Syrian brothers. Therefore, we nominate the Church for the Nobel Peace Prize. The Church deserves a lot, so the Church teaches the world in that sense. While they look into the pockets and money of refugees, we look into the eyes of refugees. When Europe looks at things with numbers, we don't count refugees, we love refugees because numbers don't mean anything if there are people. We believe that the death of a man is the death of mankind, the salvation of a human being is the salvation of all mankind. Turkey's common hand, the soft power of the AFAD budget, which is a successful co-ordinator for crisis and humanitarian aid, will bring good and good to the earth and to humanity. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0346par0024	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0347par0025	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0346par0026	Mr. Akçay, let me hear your request.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0347par0027	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, at the beginning of his speech before the break, the Marmara earthquake needs a correction by saying that people have been hit by debris for months.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0346par0028	Here's your seat.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0347par0029	Why would it be my place, sir?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0346par0030	You didn't say, "Don't fix it."
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0347par0031	No, it's just that we're...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0346par0032	Now, that's not a tease, that's a false statement. I'll turn the microphone on to you, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0347par0033	Anyway...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0346par0034	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0347par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. There's no need to waste time arguing about it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0346par0039	Thank you for understanding.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0347par0040	Thank you very much, thank you. Now, the August 17th earthquake is a major event around the world where more than 17,000 people have lost their lives -- the Marmara earthquake -- and the Marmara earthquake is at least 5-6 provinces; the Istanbul, Bursa, Sakarya, Bolu, Düzce, Eskişehir, Zonguldak, and one of the greatest natural disasters of the 20th century. The 57th government, as promised, has delivered all its works and its dwellings on time, and the tents are set up on time, and there is absolutely no way for months of destruction. But the failure of the current government, the government of the time, is also noted in the Van earthquake, which has a much smaller impact. Let's compare: Imagine a doctor in the Marmara earthquake who performs surgeries day and night, and the doctor who left his pregnant wife at the end of her surgery, unfortunately, lost both her husband and her child. In the Van earthquake, the government sent tents, blankets, and prefabricated materials not into the hands of those in need, but largely into the hands of the PKK terrorist organization and were sent to the mountains. 4,000 dwellings were delivered to the rightful owners only three years later. So we need to talk about this on purpose, we need to talk about budgeting. It's not right to try to fool the public through such propaganda talks, and it's not right, it's what I'm saying. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0348par0043	Thank you. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE WASHING OF BLOOD AND REPECTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board Final Account for Central Management 2014 THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2016 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2014 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Presidency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2014 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2014 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2016 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2014 "I") "Turkish History Building" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Historical Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Administration Final Account for 2014 On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Düzce MP Ayşe Közar will speak as the eighth speaker. Here you go, Mr. Kestir.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0349par0091	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have a pledge on behalf of my group for the AFAD budget. Today, I'd like to say a few words about the importance of the day. February 28th anniversary of the coup. That's why I'm starting my conversation by saying, "God forbid you ever let our country live on February 28th again." Just because it's a headscarf, I salute these people who have fought with the most basic human rights, especially education, without throwing a single stone at their parents, without breaking a single glass. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In those days, I'm a contemporary, like all other headscarfed women, a brother who experienced discrimination in social life, in working life. I'd also like to say that I'm amazed that some of the people who practice this persecution and/or remain silent today are trying to teach the AK PARTY women's rights. Since 1934, women have had the right to choose, and only in 2015 did they truly get the right to be chosen. (AC PARTY welcomes you, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan and our Prime Minister, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, to those who have worked so hard to remove the suffering of those days from us, who have paid every price for this struggle. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I am, as you know, the Düzce MP. Düzce became our 81st province on December 9th, shortly after the earthquakes of August 17, and November 12, 1999. He remembers those who lost their lives in the flat, and in all the disasters in our country, and I ask God's mercy. In the November 12th earthquake, Düzce, Akça husband, Fridayyeri, Chilimli, Göliyaka, Silverova, Boiler and Yülca, a total of 710 of our citizens were injured, while 2,678 others were injured. In the November 12th earthquake, 81 per cent of the dwellings are still in memory of the total destruction of the Düzce city centre, with 87 per cent of the workplace damaged. My city worked hard to make up for the trauma she suffered right after the earthquake, the financial, spiritual loss. In 1999, it took quite a while to even reach the disaster zone. Fighting disaster wasn't effective enough. There was a messy structure under disaster management. So it took a long time for the wounds to heal, and it was very difficult. With the implementation of a new disaster management model during the EC PARTY, we are protected from disaster through more effective, faster, risk analysis, more holistic, broader, and human-focused studies. Last weekend, as a Family Association Research Commission, we visited Kilis and Şanlıurfa, and visited the Pioneer Camp. We met with the members of the AFAD, relevant ministries and NGOs, especially in the district of Kilis. Marmara, Düzce and Van, who have worked in many disaster areas, particularly earthquakes, I would like to say that I also care about the sacrifice made by disaster workers and families. In one of the containers I was visiting, we had a chat with the host Fatma and her children. They expressed their satisfaction with the opportunities offered here, that their only troubles were the families they left behind. We women carry our tears like a mark. Fatma and I did not speak the same language, but we agreed with our tears. As two women from two different cultures, we remember the father's pain and longing with tears. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have unfortunately failed to pass the test on many developed welfare countries in the world, Syrian war victims. Turkey has used only about $10 billion for the camps, while the total spending of the world's countries has not reached $500m. This shows us that the greatness of the nations is measured by the size of their hearts and consciences. I hereby congratulate all AFAD employees and wish them a continued success. I wish our country and our nation the best budget of 2016, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0350par0101	Thank you, Mr. Kestir. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Kavalıoğlu.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0351par0105	Mr. President, I have made a pledge today on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of our distinguished world brand, Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President. I salute you all. As it is known, the TİKA was established in 1992 to support the newly formed Turkish republics in Central Asia with the end of the Cold War period, and to convey the achievements and experiences of the Republic of Turkey. In early years, more technical assistance has been made to increase the institutional capacity of these brothers and sisters. After that, the world's developments, international demands and policy of our country opened up to the Balkans, the Middle East, Africa, South Asia, the Pacific Islands and Latin America, and its project areas were expanded. From 2002 to 2015, the grants to TİKA (TİKA), which managed to increase the number of foreign offices from 12 to 50, increased by 10 times more during our administrations to 221 million euros in 2015; the number of projects and activities is close to 15,000. With such importance and support today, TİKA has become an exemplary global institution in more than 150 countries around the world, with a brand value that even developed countries envy. Mr. President, dear friends, when we look at the sectoral distribution of projects and activities that have been implemented by TİKA in recent years, we see that social structures and services are first. This is a direct result and reflection of our government's understanding of human-oriented diplomacy. In this minivalde, as in previous years, he signed dozens of projects in 2014 and 2015, aimed at establishing and supporting TİKA education infrastructures. In this area, we build schools, educational facilities all over the world, libraries and labs. Central Asia's largest and most modern school continues its work in Kyrgyztan. The health sector is another area of priority. We're building hospital and health clinics, providing medical equipment to health care providers, and training medical staff. The construction of the 150-bed Turkish-Palestin Friendship Hospital in Gaza will be completed and will begin serving as the largest hospital in Palestine, following the completion of medical equipment. Again, it is an institution that supports deaf people in Kosovo and helps helps in West Africa when the Ebola outbreak occurs, and saves thousands of people from cataracts and fistula diseases, with volunteers sent to Africa with NGO cooperation. Similarly, we are building the highest capacity and modern education and health facilities in Somalia, Pakistan, Palestine, Niger, and many other countries. In different parts of the world, primarily Africa, we open wells for healthy drinking water supply, build water networks, and bring hundreds of thousands of people together with clean water. Dear lawmakers, with restoration efforts, we claim our historical and cultural heritage, our apocalypse. We're reanimating mosques, madrasases, bridges built hundreds of years ago, destroyed. We train teachers, doctors, police, judges and prosecutors, diplomats from dozens of countries we consider friendly and sister countries in Turkey. These projects are not only supporting the development of target countries, but also bringing important recycling for our country. Our country's public diplomacy efficiency and softness are increasing through its projects, our limited diplomatic relations with countries are becoming strategic partnerships, the volume of foreign trade is increasing, the Turkish private sector is opening to new markets, and our country's influence, especially the United Nations, is increasing in international platforms. Dear lawmakers, the success of TİKA (TİKA) reflects the vision of our government and the ability to access the world in parallel with it. We're going to continue to expand our horizons and create projects that are suitable for our historical roots, culture and civilization, realizing that we are a great state. With these opinions and thoughts, I wish our budget to be blessed, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0352par0119	Thank you, Mr. Kavalıoğlu. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Istanbul MP Osman Boyraz will speak. Here you go, Mr. Boyraz.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0353par0123	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group over the TİKA budget. I hereby salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation, who are watching us at the beginning of their screens, with the greatest of my heart. Today is February 28th, the anniversary of the postmodern coup. On this occasion, I'd like to say a few words about February 28th. February 28th, in our political past, in the face of unique suffering and persecution, will be remembered for the coldness of our minds, our souls. February 28th dismissed the 54th government, which was brought to work by the people's free will and halal votes, on a ridiculous basis, such as interference, and with a militant pressure. The coup of February 28th, which has victimized hundreds of thousands of our people, has brought fire to every house, tears to every eye, sadness to every heart. Before the nation's fortune, hope, imagination, and future have been stolen. In short, when it comes to February 28th, I'd like to share my thoughts with you. We have modernized the storm, they want the primitive. The commanders say: journalists who run to the General Staff briefings, and the headlines that are carefully posted afterwards; jurisprudence members who stand up for briefings; the receipts, the convincing rooms, the suspended officers; the students who shed tears at the school gate; the young cubs who have been unaware of their future; the period of custody and pressure, which is scheduled to last for a thousand years. Yes, there have been many military coups in Turkey until this period. Although these coups have damaged the entire community, its direct targets have become political prime ministers, ministers, journalists, youth leaders. However, there were few coups on February 28th, when he was 12 or 13 years old, he saw that children who could neither defend nor argue nor question his rights as potential danger, and their lives were tried to be blackened because of decisions made at that age. The greatest sign of impacts in politics is the fear of what the soldier puts in our minds. With that fear, military intervention was not stopped until the AK PARTY period, nor was it, unfortunately, the way to deal with them. However, the AK PARTI, which has no power at all against the will of the nation, fought military and every kind of guardianship, opposed to the understanding of the public, which sees things and sees things, told the people to stop trying to bring down the will of the nation by making it a factor and a subject of politics. I hope everyone understands that in democracies, the balance of balans can't be done with tanks, cannons, rifles, people's will. In order to have a respectable and lasting democracy today and never to live those days again, I think it should be a priority for Parliament to establish a new constitution that is equal, liberal citizenship, that will represent the widest social consensus that will allow the state to embrace the nation, that will extend the freedom of the individual against the state, and that everyone and every section can call it my constitution. Dear lawmakers may imagine that some will leave the table and stop the process by avoiding the new constitution. However, society is talking about constitutional changes in the streets, NGOs, universities, all over the country, and we know that this process cannot be stopped by any political party, and we see that politics cannot be done despite the public. Therefore, I would like to ask that all of us in politics do not ignore that fact. Of course, I particularly want to make a point here about TİKA. Our dear brother, the previous speaker, expressed it. However, in April of last year, I was part of a program organized by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism at the Cadastro Worksite of the World. There, the Minister of the Republic of Angola made a statement: "We pray that the AK PARTY will succeed, in accordance with our own faith." he said. To be honest, I was surprised, too. When he said, "I wish you success in our faith." When we asked, "Why did you say such a prayer?" When I said this, he said: "You are not like other white people." They came to steal our bread, and you came to share your bread and to share your conversation. I don't think there's a better way to sum up TİKA (TİKA) than this. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0354par0136	Thank you, Mr Boyraz.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0355par0137	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0354par0138	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0355par0139	We listened carefully to the final part of Osman Bey's speech. It would be more elegant for someone there on behalf of the Parliament of the Republic of Turkey to take it on behalf of the state, not the party, but the state, the Republic of Turkey, and bring it here. We'd be glad to have that opinion formed that way, but we condemn the concept of this party state. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0354par0141	Well, that's a thought, we'll respect it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0356par0142	I've already expressed it on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0355par0143	Not at all. You said "AK PARTY."
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0354par0144	Yes, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Mehmet Erdogan will now speak for Gaziantep MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0357par0147	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I salute you all with respect and conversation. I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group for budget talks on the chairmanship of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency. Dear friends, TİKA is a face-laden organisation of the Republic of Turkey. Since 1999, we have had a very serious operation, which operates in around 190 countries in the United Nations, and has a representative for 48 of them. Of course, this organization has given a different importance to ecstasy countries, from Bosnia to Africa, to Central Asia. Of course, it's not just the restoration of these artifacts around here. These have also worked in many areas, from health to economics, to agriculture. In 2005, our Prime Minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, went to Mongolia. While visiting the ruins of Orhun Abides, in Karakorum, there wise Khan, and Ashtiye's Temples of Skyturk, see that the tortoise was separated from its fresks and broken into three pieces, and instruct TİKA. The establishment of a museum about Orhun Abyssins (orhuna), and the preservation of our books, the decision to preserve its future in history. Of course, there's no road. In 2008, at the invitation of our President, I opened the Museum of Orhun Abides in Mongolia that day, again with our Minister of Vitaly Printer, again with the Deputy Minister of the Nationalist Movement, Mehmet Shandir, who was also on many of our delegations. Of course, when we went with our Prime Minister in 2008, we went to Turkmenistan first. I came across an incident in Turkmenistan. I saw the Gaziantep peanut there, and in Turkmenistan, I also saw an agricultural study of Gaziantep nuts called Antep nuts run by TİKA. Here, of course, I'm proud. After coming from there, now, again, in 2014, once again, when our current President, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, goes as President, he gives instructions on the Wise Tonyukuk Monument and the work around it, and they are completed by 11km. In 2010, we went to Kosovo. Sushitsa village in the city of Mamusa... yes, the village of the late Mehmet Akif Ersoyun. We ran into a mosque there. We saw Mehmet Akif Ersoy's school, and we saw that the mosque was built for Mehmet Akif Ersoy's father Tahir Efendi in 1861, but it was burned by the Serbs in 1999, and I asked him to restore it to our current TİKA President Serra Çam Bey. I thank him very much. It was completed and activated in 2014. Dear friends, outside of Mongolia, outside of Kosovo, outside Bosnia, in the Balkans, in Central Asia, in the Middle East, Africa, anywhere in the world, we are quite proud to count such artifacts. Sure, what did we do? The capital of Mongolia, Ian Batur, and Gaziantep, we made a brother city, and then we built the exact same one-on-one of Orhun Abideles, around the castle in Gaziantep, and we performed it in the open space. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I want to thank you for your support for the budget of TICA. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0358par0157	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Giresun MP Sabri Ozturk will speak as the 12th speaker. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0359par0161	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the budget of the President of the Foreign Turkish and Relative Communitys, in 2016. I salute the High Council. The ideal of becoming a great country requires that you be active outside your own borders and have a say in the globalized world. This requires effective diplomacy, strong diaspora and effective lobbying activities. As it is known, from the Balkans to the Middle East, from Europe to the remotest corners of Central Asia, in short, we have over 200 million relatives and relatives in many parts of the world that we associate with the collective history, culture or language union. In addition, after the 60s, we have over 5 million citizens who have migrated around the world and lived abroad. For our people, this was established in 2010, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys. In the country where they live, there is work done by our presidency so that our citizens can live happily and peacefully in a manner that is not discriminated against, racist, human dignity. Foreign hostility, Islamophobya, children taken from them by the Youth Departments, is being conducted in various ways, including family reunions, education. Again, there are programs for our youth living abroad, such as the Bridges of the Chelebi Youth, Education and Academic Support, Justice for All, Active Citizenship and Equal Attendance. The development of historical and cultural ties between these programs and our country and our foreign youth is intended to depend on our young people's own culture to grow up in countries where they are successful. Again, programmes such as Cultural Intervention, Youth Development, Cultural Inventory Support, Support for Regional Research, Turkish Alumni Communication and Co-operation are being made in many parts of the world. These programmes also aim to reunite Turkey's history and culture with our relatives, strengthening relations between their country and Turkey. As part of the Youth Bridges Programme, our young people from many parts of the world met with Turkey and Turkey's history and culture on Turkish-themed trips. Again, programmes for the education of jurisprudence to address the legal issues of our citizens living abroad, human rights violations, participation in management, discrimination. In 7 countries, 450 NGOs were given trainings and financial support for their projects. Academia programmes developed by the presidency have allowed bureaucrats, NGO representatives, media workers and academics from countries in which we share cultural partnerships to meet with their contacts in Turkey. Members of parliament, Turkey's scholarships, given by the presidency, aims to make our country an international center of attraction and to develop economic, social, cultural co-operation between countries. Turkey's scholarships received 155,000 applications from 182 countries in 2015, but were granted a scholarship to 5,000 students because the quota was 5,000. There are still more than 15,000 students from 153 countries in our country. International Academy of Students programmes are being implemented to contribute to social, cultural and academic development of students who are trained as Turkish scholarships; to increase their knowledge and awareness in areas such as civil society, lobbyism, media; again, to inform students of the global vision of Turkey with Turkish culture and civilization. Since these students are the most successful students in their country, they also contribute to public diplomacy as a friend of Turkey when they return home after training in Turkey. The presidency of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad has many more useful works that we can no doubt count. Since time is limited, that's all we can tell you. In a nutshell, we can say that from the Adriatic Wall to the Chinese Wall, which is expressed by our elders in the past, our relations with our relatives are much stronger today, and our country is fast on its way to the great Turkish ideal. I wish you all the best in the 2016 budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0360par0175	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. And now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Hakan Sergeant will speak for Mr. Bursa MP.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0361par0178	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with the wish that our budget for 2016 would be a blessing. Today is February 28th. I condemn those who carried out this coup as a disgrace to Turkish history of democracy. I'd also like to say that the victims of the period's affinity will follow them to the apocalypse. Honourable lawmakers, from its establishment in 2010, their work, the projects it has developed, and over 5 million of our citizens living abroad, as well as one of our hundred-flow institutions in our civilization's geography, which is one of our hundred-lettered institutions, the President of the Foreign Turks and Associations. Congressmans, although our country is 780,000 square kilometers, the responsibility that history has imposed on us points to an infrastructure that exceeds these limits. No one, who is a ambitious and powerful Turkey's vision to rule Turkey, can lock the heart limits of Turkey's heart to 780,000 square kilometers of geography. This view is not only due to the responsibility of history, but also to the people who pray for it in the Balkans, in the Caucasus, in the Middle East, when it opens its eyes every morning. Congressmans, as a friend of yours born in Balkan geography, I would like to remind you in particular that, as an expression of history, our relatives and relatives, who today cannot be under the star flag of history, consider themselves a guardian of history under the rule of other states, are paying attention to what is happening in Turkey, perhaps more sensitive than we are to what is happening in Turkey. Hence, when someone here talks about sending our brothers back into Turkey's compassion by fleeing the wilderness in Syria, blood is pouring into their hearts. The doors of our country and the hearts of our nation are wide open to you. We never see you as different from ourselves. When they are called, they are all reborn. When you won the election in Turkey, did you ever ask yourself why people were screaming for joy in Gostivar, Sarajevo, Switzerland, Gaza, when people took their Turkish Flags into the street? (AK PARTY) Yes, the AK PARTY has never seen our relatives and relatives different from the citizens of this country since they came to power, and will not see any difference after that. See today, thanks to our foreign Turkish and related communities presidency and so-called organizations, thousands of our brothers and sisters have begun to train in our schools, where our brothers and sisters have been re-resounded in Rhodes, Istanbul, and many other places. Honourable lawmakers, we have not only been insensitive to the problems and demands of our brothers and sisters who have taken refuge in Turkey, who are not in foreign hands because of pressure, intimidation and assimilation policies in the countries in which they live. See, lawmakers had to give up all their rights and social security while thousands of our relatives emigrated to Turkey because of their policy of assimilation in Bulgaria in 1989. Thus, the pensions of our descendants were lost. Many of them have fallen out of their hands, advanced in age, unable to work, and have sought a cure from the governments of many years ago, but all the doors have closed in their faces. In contrast, with the sensitivity of our former Prime Minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the interim clause added to Act 3201 during the AK PARTI rule has opened the way for our relatives to retire. As a result, some 36,000 of our family members have resuscitated as pensioners. We can replicate what we have done with many examples, such as a comfortable residence permit, refunding housing allowances. Dear lawmakers, there may be those in Turkey who live freely in the shadow of the starry flag today and drink its air and drink its water, who are so low that they may call it "Zalim." But remember, there are millions of descendants who would sacrifice their lives for him, even though he never came to Turkey and had never seen it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the budget of 2016 to be good for our country and our nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0362par0191	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0363par0192	And if thou hadst remembered the late Ozal, he opened the door, and it was because of him that thou camest in.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0362par0193	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the 14th speaker will speak for Samsun MP Hasan Basri Kurt. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0364par0196	Mr. President, representative of the national will, dear MPs, I salute you with respect and respect. I have made a commitment to the budgetary budget for Ataturk, Culture, Language and History. I wish our budget to bring blessings to our nation. Today is the 19th anniversary of a total attempt against the will, history, and reality of the nation in the occupation of balancing democracy. Nineteen years ago, they ran tanks on the streets of Ankara to ward off the will of the nation under the roof of this Parliament. As in May 27th and September 12th, we experienced a day when democracy was applauded by so-called intellectuals, so-called university teachers, so-called unions, so-called professions, many so-called academics. Under the description of the postmodern, many televisions, many news channels, have experienced the need for this coup in today's conditions. Thankfully, our people know how to get out of this reign of conquest by their own free will. The sufferings and illegal practices of February 28th are behind us. The will of our nation is standing upright today. Our nation has claimed a thousand years of history in the land of Asia Minor and Rumeli and condemned the coupists, the coup lovers, to nothingness by burying them in the garbage of history. February 28th was not just a political coup, but a coup that meant Turkey's presence on earth; it was a process that blocked Turkey, blocking the high openings it had brought, while the world had been redesigned, that occupied Turkey's internal affairs and shut it down. Today the AK PARTI power against those who try to do such things will not come to the games on that day, and hopefully our nation will show it all the time with the support it has given to the EC PARTY. June 7th and November 1st actually means a rematch of February 28th. Mustafa Kemal gave this motto in the establishment of the Turkish Historical Society as a duty: ▪ Writing history is as important as making history, and if he remains faithful to the author, the unchanging truth will take humanity by surprise. The place in the history of mankind of Asia Minor needs to be addressed on four fundamentals: historical and geographical continuity; here we are talking about a thousand years of history. Time and space cognitiveness is what we need to do to preserve our own national unity, our national integrity, whatever it is that our age requires. This is the vast foreign policy that we are interacting with both China and Russia, not just with the European Union today. With an unconscious view of history, there can be neither a common language nor a cultural continuity. A history that has not been written without its own historical truth and scientific reality is nothing but a lie and a mistake. The society that doesn't write its own history is not the subject of history, but the object of history written by others. From the early stages of the education process, it will never, ever be possible for generations to say something about the future under the influence of an understanding that sees their own civilization as a pure object of history. Our civilization is a founding civilization. Suleiman Shah and Ertuğrul Gazi also came to Asia Minor to establish a new civilization and to establish a new home. In front of him, Mongolian barbarism represented a destructive will. Selahattin Ayyubi was again a representative of a founding will in this geography, representing a founding will against the destructive will of the Crusaders. Ataturk, founder of Fatih and the Republic of Turkey, is again representatives of this founding will. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We need to take our history to a much better place if we want to move forward with a founding will. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0365par0209	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Osmaniye MP Suat Önal will speak. Here you go, Mr. Önal.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0366par0213	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group over the budgetary budgetary budget bill for 2016, the Ataturk Cultural Centre and the Ataturk Research Centre budgets. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation who are watching us on their screens. Dear MPs, the Ataturk Cultural Centre, established in 1983, to study, study, study, and publish our culture in a wholeness, under Article 134, under the Constitution of the Constitution, have been reorganised by the institution's establishment, mandate, authority and responsibilities under Article 664, published in the Official Gazette on November 2, 2011. This institution, which contributed to the research, introduction and spread of Turkish culture, carried out 25 scientific events in 2015, including 14 (14) nationally and 11 (11) internationally, and also participated in 15 scientific events. Again, the Ataturk Research Centre, which has been restructured under Code 664, has been published by the Ataturk Principle and Inclusions, the National War period, and all values of the period before and after. In 2015, the International Congress of the Canakkale Wars in the 100th Year was organised in Çanakkale Governorate, Çanakkale University in March 18 and the University of Monash University in Çanakkale. When it comes to the Ataturk Research Center and Çanakkale, Ataturk describes the spirit of Çanakkale, which we have always been proud to remember, saying: "I can't pass without telling you about the Bombshell case. The distance between the battlements is 8 meters, so death is certain. Those in the first trench fall, none of them survive, the second ones go in their place, but do you know how envious and trusting they are; they see the dead, they know they're going to die in three minutes, they don't even show a little figure. No shaking. Those who can read are prepared to enter Paradise with the Qur'an in their hands. Those who don't know walk with words of silence. This is an example of admiration and congratulation for the spirit forces of Turkish soldiers. You must be sure that this is the high spirit that wins the battle of Çanakkale. Dear lawmakers, here we have a responsibility to the country that has entrusted us with this paradise country with its Kurd, with its Laz, with all its ethnic elements, for the sake of religion, for the sake of the land, for the sake of the flag, with the spirit of Çanakkale, by the spirit of Çanakkale. With the same spirit today, we must remain united against our country's collaborators and traitors, who are plotting treason against our country and intending to divide us and tear us apart. We know very well that since the time when Alparslan took the victory of Malazzirt in 1071, he and Anatolia into Islam's geography, the treacherous reckoners of Asia Minor have existed in every period, and they continue to exist today. Thanks to the heart of the mothers and fathers, who kissed the hand that killed their young today, their words are the same as that of the noble mother who sent her son to the army at Bilcik Station after the legend of Çanakkale. The mother who sniffed at her son one last time and said to her son, "Your son, your father, in Şüsseyin, in Şüpka. Your father, Dömeke, eight months ago, was a martyr in Çanakkale. Look, you are my last chip, and if the voices of the minarets are to be silenced, and the lamps of the mosques are to be blinded, let my milk be forbidden, and die, and don't return to the village. Remember to read the spirit of your uncle, when your way comes to Shupka. Go on, son, be on your way. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes, as your mother said from the bottom of her heart, our nation, the hope of all the innocents in the world, the path and good fortune of our beautiful country. I wish you all the best in the fiscal year budget of 2016, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0367par0225	Thank you, Mr. Önal. The last speaker of the Justice and Development Party Group will be Mr. Necip Tetovo, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Shield.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0368par0229	Mr. Speaker, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0369par0230	You were the man to be Speaker, my brother!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0367par0231	Let's hope so!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0368par0232	Mr. President, I have a favor to ask of you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0367par0233	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0368par0234	One institution for everyone, five minutes, two for me, five for me.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0370par0236	Five more, five more!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0368par0237	I'd like to add two more minutes, and then we'll talk about it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0371par0238	The clock's ticking, the clock's ticking!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0372par0239	I can't, it'll be inequality, it won't be fair. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0373par0241	Okay.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0374par0242	But let's start the clock again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0373par0243	Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Turkish Historical Foundation and the Turkish Language Foundation for 2016. On this occasion, on behalf of my group and myself, I salute you with love. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you can appreciate that the most important thing to a country's wealth is the existence of institutions that have taken root in the history of that country. Here we have two institutions that we are proud of: the Turkish Historical Foundation, the Turkish Language Foundation. We are talking about two institutions who have witnessed 85 years of the Republic of Turkey. Mr. President, the esteemed Councillors...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0375par0246	The MPs...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0376par0247	The MPs, brother.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0373par0248	I'm used to it. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0375par0249	Of course you got used to the Chamber of Commerce.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0373par0250	The Turkish Historical Association was held in January 1930, when it was held in January VI. Under the direction of Ataturk, the council was established under the motion of the Lady of Afet. The foundation's core was created by Afet İnan, İsmail Hakkırlı, Halil Bey of the Turkish community. The aim of the institution is to study, promote, spread, and develop the consciousness of history in the society in scientific ways of studying Turkish history and civilization. I just heard Mr. Yıldırım. From his own point of view, he described the Turkish Historical Foundation and the Turkish Language Foundation and explained it in his own way. I listened to him with his candelabra. After listening to it, I decided that we would not have to look after this Turkish Language Foundation and the Historical Society for eighty-five years, eighty-five years, and eighty-five years. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Since the founding of the precious Turkish Historical Society, he has held scientific meetings, and the Turkish Historical Society has become one of the number-one institutions in the world, believe me. And since there's no time left for the Turkish Language Foundation, I'm asking all of you, for God's sake, when you go out, ask each other, how many words of Turkish we're talking about today? Ask him, for God's sake, to remember him. If we can't read the signs when we go out -- I'm at Grandpa's -- if the grandson doesn't understand what he's saying, it's a disaster for Turkish. We have to speak this English in a clean language, we have to speak a clean Turkish language. I've just texted a friend of mine who's an industrialist, to watch from Izmir. He said, "Lord, make sure you tell me." The point I'm going to say is: education is pure Turkish, the foundation of business is clean Turkish. Well, now, we're out of here, English on signs... that's computer language... look, the way to get rid of all this is to own a clean Turkish language. We own it, and it's the practice of the EC PARTY government that owns it. I'm asking you, our Turkish...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0377par0255	It's called....................................................................................... Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't,
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0373par0256	Isn't that right?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0377par0258	It's not! Is English our language?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0373par0259	Is that all right?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0377par0260	Is it okay if it's
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0378par0261	Mr. Speaker, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0373par0262	I, of course, wasn't comfortable talking because I cut it too short.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0379par0263	Perhaps it would have been understandable if you had sent the message instead of the message!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0373par0264	I, as a member of a Turkish historical institution in need of a clean Turkish language, pay tribute to the Turkish Language Foundation and its employees. I'm saying good luck with the budget.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0380par0266	Thank you, Mr. Shield. Thus, the group talks of the Justice and Development Party have ended. Congressmans, now it's time for a speech on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. The first speaker was İstanbul MP Aykut Erdoğdu. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 16 minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0381par0273	Mr. President, I'm going to talk today about the budgets of the US Treasury Undersecretary, Capital Market Board and Banking Organization, which are the most important institutions of the Turkish macroeconomics, but from what I've seen...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0380par0275	Mr. Erdoğdu, please... Congressmans, the speaker is on the stand, please be quiet and calm. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0278	The ministers representing Turkey's economy, all of us's revenues, spending, these institutions concerned with its future, unfortunately, on such an important day, they are not present during the Council of Ministers and during the Commission on the day the budget was discussed...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0383par0279	They come in order.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0280	...if you need the Minister of Finance, Mr. Mehmet. If there's an emergency, I can't say anything, but this is respect for the institutional identity of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, they're supposed to be here.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0384par0281	The Minister of Finance is here, Mr. Deputy. He'll be here soon.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0282	Well, then, he'll come and listen, sir, which means he's here physically. Now, let's look at the situation of the Turkish economy together where we've come to: Dear friends, we have a chronic problem, we can't produce high-profile and we're spending more than our income, we have a savings deficit. That's why we're always in debt. That was in the past, but what happened during this period, during the AKP? This debt has been overextended, dear friends. First, let's look at national accounting, we have a national accounting, so we have a national accounting of AKP, CHP, CHP, HDP, not HDP; there's a painting here called International Investment Position, which is the central bank. We can see here that all of Turkey's assets in other states in this International Investment Position table are always considered references in 2002, so in 2002, our assets in all countries -- our companies abroad, our foreign exchanges -- were $62 billion, and in return, our obligation was $148 billion, and in net position, we owe $85 billion to all the nations of the world as Turkey. Here we are in 2015, from $62 billion to $217 billion. It's a good thing we're growing assets. Our poor obligations, from $148 billion to 602 billion, have increased our obligation to other nations, and clearly, as of now, as of the latest painting of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0384par0284	Deputy, our Minister has arrived.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0285	Welcome, Mr. Secretary, our call worked. ...we all owe $375 billion to other nations of the world, dear friends, $375 billion. Do you know how this works? Here, if you consume more, if you take the savings of other nations, and you don't save yourself, then your country, in this way, will be in debt to other countries. It has very painful and very severe consequences. Now, we're coming up; the ministers are coming up here, and they're telling us some numbers, and they're saying, "Is this the truth of the Turkish economy?" Friends, there are total deposits in banks in Turkey; it is important to show the state of our wealth. The higher the deposit, the better. Look, in 2002, we had 128 billion lira deposits; today we have $1 trillion 147 billion. Well, our deposits are up, so that's a good thing, but we're going back, and there's something worse: domestic loans. What we call an internal loan: the grocery store, the shopkeeper, the company owner, the debt of these, we owe $32 billion, loan debt. At the point where we're here today, our people are owed $1 trillion 455 billion -- credit cards and consumer loans -- in large populations. In 2002, he was cursed, humiliated... and this year the public owes $6.4 billion to consumer credits and credit cards. Now, when you come in today, we're in terrible debt with a trillion dollars and 455 billion dollars -- I don't know what you're talking about with the old money because I can't remember 1,000 times the quadrillion. How does that work? Now, what is the perception that the AKP has created in you with media power? We've grown terrible, it's a wonderful economy, isn't it? Dear friends, the most basic indicator of an economy is growth rates. You're looking at growth rates, one of the worst governments in the history of the Republic. So when are the growth rates dropping? After 1980, the growth rates in Turkey have been very low since the years of liberal economic policies. When's the highest? Under Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, we are doing our highest growth here, dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, look, there's the Minister of Finance here. Dear friends, I have a painting. Enter the Department of Development's weekly economic data set, and you'll see this painting. You know how they tell the public? They say that in 2002, our gross public debt stock -- I mean, the domestic and external debt stock of the public of Turkey -- is 257 billion liras. By 2015, this became 734 billion. But, wait a minute, we owe 734 billion, but we have a presence. It says, "Where do we exist?" It says, "We exist in the Central Bank." They're dropping the public debt supply, the asset at the Central Bank. I'm asking the Minister of Finance if the assets in the Central Bank are public? It's not, guys. You know, private banks, they're bringing in the guarantee bank, they're putting in some deposits, they're bringing in the building loans, they're depositing the right amount -- they're dropping it out of public net debt. Do you know how much? They're falling from 406 billion debts. Second: unemployment fund. Whose money is this? Unemployable. Legally, legally, this debt is an autonomous fund, but it's bringing it, like it's the public's money, 90 billion and so on, that's 500 billion dollars. After he falls, he says: "They also have public assets. " He may fall, but he must be looked at in detail. The debt of $734 billion is 143 billion. And then he says, in 2002, we owed 61.5 percent of the illegitimate domestic patient, and we reduced it to 7.6. Dear friends, now, this will be the Minister of Finance, Mr. Sir, who will say, "This is based on the international financial standards of the European Union, the financial standards of the IMF." I am an international auditor. He sets the principle of financial standards. If it's not yours, you can't put it in because it's not public property, it can't be reduced from public debt. Turkey's debts are 734 billion liras. The 500 billion they've been hiding with the perception game of accounting, tomorrow we'll be in trouble, and then we'll be even worse off than Greece. Look, let's move on to the situation of the Turkish economy. Now, what did you used to do? We'd collect taxes, build highways, build airports, bridges by every government in the Republic.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0385par0294	Then we'd pay with interest.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0295	You see, the Minister of Finance is giving me a hard time.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0385par0296	So what do we do?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0386par0297	He even insulted the President General.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0298	What did Ahmet Davutoglu say yesterday?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0387par0299	Mr. Erdoğdu, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0300	Now, look, I'll ask the Finance Minister... we've done taxes before, now they've developed a new model. They developed a model called the do-and-do model and the public private cooperation model. If a government's funding is limited, it calls in businessmen, makes a transparent and competitive tender. You do it, you get your funding, under the circumstances that I've found out. Run it for a while, then hand it over to me, okay? What was done in Turkey? His finances are guaranteed, his business guaranteed, he's got a lot of corruption allegations. Yeah, the Farm Bank gives you the guarantee, the State Air Square gives you the guarantee, why does Mehmet Genghis run it, guys? He threw a rock and his arm got tired? And the projects that we're talking about are worth dozens of billion dollars, and worse, they don't show it in government accounting, they normally have to show it as a conditional obligation. What are they doing? My brother, the State Air Squares gave the loan and the guarantee, and they call it a special OCE. Who does it belong to? It belongs to the Undersecretary of Treasury. What do you mean? Treasure guarantee. Can you see it in his budget? How can you believe this budget? There's no Court report, accounting is rigged, no friends, it's not the right thing to do. Now, we're coming, and there's a great sense of income in Turkey, isn't there? Friends, see if you can access the financial distribution of revenues and assets on the website of the Banking Organization and Control Agency. The $1.4 billion deposit I just told you about in Turkey, half of it is in the account balance of $1 million and above. So half the deposit, millionaires, there's nothing going on with the public, the revenue distribution is horribly corrupted. A lot of people are saying that in Turkey one percent of the population has 54 percent of the wealth. There are statistical studies on this, you look at the Gini coefficient of the State Statistical Institute, which is so unreliable, you can't see anything. They'll tell us: "Can't you trust the statistics of this government? We can't trust anything after what we've seen, dear friends. Now, here we are, always such a 2002 paranoia, always such a 2002 perception. Dear friends, as a result, where the economy of Turkey comes from, our national wealth has fallen into the hands of foreigners. Our most critical, strategic sectors, from cigarettes to cell phone companies, start from airports to our mines, have been sold to foreigners. On the one hand, excessive debting suggests that the future of the Turkish economy is very dark when our high-income monopoly strategic institutions are in the hands of foreigners. Sometimes the government tells us we talk rough. It's not a time of hard talk anymore, it's a time of giving you advice because Turkey is headed for a great deal of trouble. How do you get out of this situation: first you have to provide full democracy. Democracy and economics go to the head of horses, and look at the world, you'll see that the quality of democracy in rich countries is high. How are you going to do that? First of all, you have to get rid of this one-man look. You have to tell me. When we tell you, you get upset, you get upset. You're going to have to tell Recep Tayyip Erdogan in some way that he shouldn't look like one man. Second: the state of law and independence of the judiciary are the most important issues. In any country whose law and judgment are not trusted, there is no investment. How's that? I don't care about the Constitutional Court's decision. He won't say it. (CHP clapping in rows) Because this can be understood as a coup. Because he is the head of the execution of the Republic of Turkey. Think the same thing backwards: If the Supreme Court's president comes out, I don't care about this President, I don't respect him. How would you feel if he did?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0388par0304	That's what he says.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0305	No, he's not saying that. If he says so, he's very disrespectful, so we'll interfere with him.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0388par0306	They're acting against the will of the nation.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0307	You can't say that. Government management is a very serious business. Your 80 million...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0389par0308	We're not interfering, we're Democrats.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0309	We know the courtesy of my Salih brother. We're coming now, you're going to have to reduce this social tension, dear friends. You can't expect economic development in a country with this much violence. When you put all your funds into security, with this image in your own cities, you can't give a good economic image. And, friends, we have to restore international relations. We look like a fightin' country, we fightin' everybody. O Sisi! O Assad! O Obama! O Putin! O AB! O U.S.A., we must get rid of this language, dear friends. There's a Donald Trump in America, and we're all pissed off at him, aren't we?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0390par0312	Give in to injustice?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0313	This is the same image of Donald Trump. They feel for Mr. Recep abroad. Look, I'm telling you this for a warning, the same image, it looks like this. We're the main opposition to this country, but we're called part of this country, and we're sad when we see it. You have to fix this. Friends, if you want economic growth, you're going to have to create a national educational policy that promotes creativity because creative intelligence is innovating. Look, these touch phones, new operating systems... You know, that youth called "The Explorer," "The Traveler," "The Explorer," "The Explorer," "The Destroyer," "You have to make peace with them," because we can't do anything if those young people, along with your young people, don't produce that innovation based on high-velocity value. Look, you brought in a 4+4+4 training system, we're screwed, guys, we're in bad shape. We'll explain the data of national education in the national education budget, but national education has a direct impact on the economy. We have to cheapen the energy and transport infrastructure. Every company's phone, electricity, natural gas bills with corruption and bad management, which I've told you over and over again, billions of dollars of corruption is extremely high. With these high costs, our companies can't compete with other companies, so workers' wages are reduced. We're moving into a model of growth by crushing our human being, you can't do that. Dear friends, you see a third airport... you're telling a big story, who's going to pay for it?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0391par0318	Do-it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0319	Look how beautiful he says it is. He thinks he's gonna get paid, he thinks he's gonna get paid, he's gonna get on that plane. Whoever gets on that plane will pay for what he normally does by paying taxes on every plane; 15 euros will now become about 40 euros in ten years.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0391par0320	Let's have a separate discussion, Congressman. Let's discuss it separately, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0321	Let's sit down and talk, so I'm sure I'd like to, too, if only we could have a more civilized relationship in power-mutation.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0392par0322	Whoever paid Marmaray...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0323	Look, there's a matter of public-special cooperation city hospitals. Well, fellas, don't you have any consciences? Construction costs, two rents... the government's gonna pay rent to whoever did this, and he's gonna get it in two years for two rents for $400 million. We're asking the Ministry of Health, and he says, "Sir, we've made a tender, it's like this." So, you've made a terrible tender, which means you've made such a lousy tender. I mean, can that happen? Can a city hospital be built for two years' rent? We'll also assess the terrible health privatisation of health in the health budget.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0393par0324	Twenty-five years will continue to pay.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0325	Now, dear friends, if you want a good economy, you have to build an economic infrastructure free of corruption, injustice, injustice. In order to do that, you have to do infrastructure reforms. Can you do it?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0394par0326	We did it, we did it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0395par0327	The public sees it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0328	You can't because you have structural, genetic barriers ahead of you. Most importantly, like December 17-25, you had to deal with the corruption that had cost the world, and I don't think you could do that, and you're going to try to sell the worse one, and there's a very good main opposition. I've reached the deadline, the ministers aren't here, they're enjoying themselves very much, but...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0395par0330	The minister is here.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0382par0331	...economic bureaucracy's a mess, working conditions, wages, election systems, economic bureaucracy, if it's inferior, the state's inferior. We know the government is inferior, we agree on the government's incompetence, but they have to try not to disrupt the quality of the state. Today I'm sitting in the same room as the four foreign-trained specialists of economic bureaucracy, because the Treasury Undersecretary's room is big enough, the minister's room is big enough, his wages are high... but they're crawling. Pay raises, no supplements, no pay raises. When you put real growth into it, the wages went back. These are the roots of the state. You have to take care of these government bureaucrats. We're going to vote for this budget because it doesn't satisfy all our concerns. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0396par0334	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0397par0336	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0396par0337	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0397par0338	According to the Civil Charter, I have a request for my position.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0396par0339	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0397par0342	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I just reviewed the transcripts of the dialogue between you and our group's vice president in the previous session. As far as I can see, you've tried to create a conjecture through the HDP, trying to lure the voice of our group's vice president, who's been asking for words because of a bullying against our group.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0396par0344	Watch your language, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0397par0345	In a nutshell, you've tried to turn the HDP into a political party that supports terrorism with your own opinions.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0398par0347	Right... right...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0396par0348	Wait a minute, guys, wait a minute, wait a minute.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0397par0349	From time to time, we argue about the concepts of terrorism and supporting terrorism, so we discussed the current position of political parties from the stand today. I mean, you're probably sensitive about this, and we take it as a positive. Corruption, theft, bribery, tampering with tenders, nepotism; there must also be sensitivity to such practices. Although we are the most comfortable political party in all of these matters, I would still like to say that while you are running the Assembly General Assembly, you should be directing the debates based on the Civil Code, not on your personal opinion, but on the Civil Charter, and that your efforts to divert the debates are not right. I don't know who's to blame, but as the People's Democratic Party, I'd like to hear the practice of the House, which is run by MPs of Parliament, who are not elected from political parties associated with corruption, theft, slaughter, terrorism. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0399par0352	Mr. Baluken, I don't know what political cunning is in my life, I want to learn from time to time, but I can't. I've never had a bad heart, and you're one of the best.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0397par0353	I don't know.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0399par0354	I'm just giving it to you for your information. That's all I'm letting go because I know what I am, and I know how clear my mind and heart are. My conscience is perfectly clear on this. 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board Final Account for Central Management 2014 THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2016 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2014 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Presidency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2014 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2014 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2016 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2014 "I") "Turkish History Building" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Historical Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Administration Final Account for 2014 Now, as the second speaker of the Republican People's Party Group, I would like to call Mr. Gibraltar MP to the stand. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0400par0402	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the budget for the General Directorate of Foundations. I salute your high council and all our citizens. Dear lawmakers, the President's statement today not to recognise the Constitutional Court's decisions is in fact his denial of both himself and the Constitutional Court for the President who received his power and powers from the Constitutional Court. This statement made today by the President is quite significant and a second February 28th civilian coup. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the most fundamental duty of this Grand Assembly, determined by the Constitution, is the right and right to budget, giving the government, the executive body, the authority to spend in accordance with the needs of the people. The government cannot exercise a mandate issued by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. As we carry out this basic constitutional mission, we must all take great responsibility to this great nation. We, the main opposition party lawmakers, have made a great effort from the beginning of budget talks, to participate in budget talks by the ministry and public institutions, despite intensive, compressed working hours and working hours, to create an efficient revenue spending structure that will meet the demands and needs of our citizens. In these budget talks, however, we found that the ruling lawmakers did not act on constitutional responsibility for the budget impact, nor did they make any proposals on the government budget, an interrogation and a savings of funding proposals. Dear lawmakers, one of the first important institutions established in the Republic period is the Office of Evkaf Umum, the General Directorate of Foundations. The mission of the General Directorate of Foundations is to live our historical, cultural assets and historical heritages in harmony with their purpose, to move the foundation and civilization into the future with a modern understanding. Our greatest responsibility, of course, is to preserve these sacred historical riches and bring them to future generations. The General Directorate of Foundations is also obliged to oversee the establishment, control of the foundations established in today's conditions, and to check whether the laws are in line with the establishment of its objectives. However, the foundations, whose primary tasks are to act in order to make aid and solidarity strong without the aim of profit, have become highly controversial in their activities, as they did in many other public institutions during the AKP administration. There are problems with the control of many foundations established recently under the responsibility of the General Directorate of Foundations. There is no transparency, transparency, or clarity in their financial structure. Precious lawmakers, especially in the past 14 years, have been operating with the support of the ruling body, on the advice of the government, on the basis of many foundations, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, on the fields of the Ministry of Culture, on the basis of education, health, housing, higher education activities, and on the basis of the funds and resources of local governments, on the basis of public land and land. As we look at the central management budget costs of the past years, there have been 13 million, 460,000 lira transfers to non-profits such as the association, the union, the institution, the company, the polling board, in 2006, which increased by nearly 70 times, in 2015, to some 873 million, 540,000 liras. As we look at the 2016 budget costs we discussed today, these non-profits were transferred to 262 million liras in January 2016 alone. Which of these organizations are being funded from the state budget? Is there an audit of where the funds are being spent through these organizations? Yes, especially in the past few years, we all know that some of the foundations, such as the Ensar Foundation, the Information Sagittarius Society, the Greenay Foundation, are clearly supported, including the TORGAV Foundation, which includes the President's son on the Governing Body. In some public tenders, claims, such as the transfer of funds to these foundations under the name of donations, public land, the allocation of land, are constantly on the agenda. Also, in this period of power, when we look at foundations that have been granted tax exemption by the Council of Ministers, such as TÜRGEV, Ismailayata Camii İllim Service Foundation, Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Development Foundation, Human Rights and Hurriyet Humanitarian Aid Foundation, Abdullah Gul University Support Foundation. In particular, the structures of the foundation universities established by foundations established in education and health care over the past 14 years should be discussed. Using all public resources, which benefit from all exemptions through the foundation status, these organisations provide special education and conduct activities that contradict the concept of the foundation itself. When I looked as an academic, I listened carefully to the university numbers, 56, 56, the state university of 117 universities, 61, and the Minister of National Education at the Plan Budget Commission, which I attended, and we heard from him that our educational system, which has recently turned into total chaos, as you know, will be passed on to foundations and private sectors, which will be established near power, near to power, near power. Dear MPs, many times as Republican People's Party MPs, we have expressed and submitted motions in the General Assembly and Plan Budget Commission. As you know, special protocols are signed between foundations such as TÜRGAV, Humanitarian Aid Foundation, the Greenay Society, the Union Foundation and the Ministry of National Education, and as a result of these protocols, these foundations have certain privileges. For example, courses will be organised to ensure the development of students living, living, culture, and art in their homes, and the fees of teachers who will provide these training will be covered from the budget of the Ministry of National Education, and all financial obligations will be covered by the Ministry of Education, and from our budget, all citizens will be funded by all of us. Now, shouldn't the Ministry of National Education spend this budget on artistic, cultural, sporting, social development, especially in our education system, which has changed 12 times in 13 years in this administration, rather than on privileged foundations if such a budget exists? We all know the Ministry of National Education doesn't have enough budgets for schools. The social democratic municipalism of Republican People's Party municipalities and the school's painting and infrastructure spending are covered by Republican People's Party municipalities.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0401par0414	You've got it all wrong, the Ministry of National Education...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0400par0415	There is the Yeşelay Foundation, which also includes names close to AKP power, and the tax exception is the non-existent allocation of public institutions for forty-nine years, and we see 15 million dollars transferred from the Ministry of Health budget to the Greenay Foundation. On the other hand, open areas in many of our major cities, including Istanbul, are rented in the form of cafes, parking structures, tradehouses, which also exposes the lack of control of the Foundation's General Directorate. Another issue is restoration; at this point, as you know, many structures have been transformed into cartoon characters, SpongeBob. Finally, how much resources are the valuable lawmakers being funneled to the foundations in general?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0402par0420	Mr. Özdemir, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0400par0421	Can I finish?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0402par0422	So wrap it up, please, 'cause I can't give you an extension.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0400par0423	Okay. How much resources are being transferred to the foundations? The framework of these sources, all revenue and spending pens can be opened and accounted for, transparent, rightfully determined, explained... As the Republican People's Party Group, since it has been approved undisputed in this Grand Assembly, we call the General Directorate of Foundations budget no. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0403par0428	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0404par0429	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement on my position so it won't be polemic.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0403par0430	I don't understand.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0404par0431	Mr. Speaker just said it was a coup attempt based on our President's criticism of the Constitutional Court's decision.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0403par0432	You want to talk about your position?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0404par0433	Yes, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0403par0434	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0404par0437	Mr. President, dear friends, we've been talking about the same thing all morning, but I see our speaker friend either didn't listen or he likes his polemic style. Look, the Constitutional Court has criticised the decision, Mr. President. From here on out, however, this is a coup attempt. It is a criticism of a court order.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0403par0440	Quiet, please. Go ahead, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0404par0442	If you warn Mr. CHP Group, Mr. President, they talk all the time, so we can talk from time to time.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0403par0443	I'm listening, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0405par0444	He's complaining, teacher, they talk too much.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0404par0445	Dear friends, we know how our President has been elected, a man who, along with the vast majority of votes, has come to the most important position of this nation's vast majority. Based on a criticism, he's attempting to attack. I want to express that I can't equate what he says with mercy, with what he says. Other than that, I don't think they should change their conversation about the Constitutional Court based on the political agenda. For example, Deniz Baykal said in his speech in the group as CHP's President before making a court decision, let alone criticizing Mr. Baykal's court decision: "There is no need for the Constitutional Court. The country will go to conflict before the court makes its decision. Look, there's not even a decision yet, not even a judgment critique, there's a big threat, and that's a coup. So you're going to criticize it, but when the people outside of you criticize it, you're going to call it a coup. I think it's unfair. Beyond that, again, Mr. Kilicdaroglu...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0406par0449	That was a fix.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0404par0450	Patience, calm down.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0406par0451	But detection is something else.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0404par0452	I'll tell you what.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0407par0453	Mr. Turan, you're telling me, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0404par0454	They've been saying everything all morning, we've said two sentences, mercy, hold on.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0407par0455	You go ahead, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0404par0456	Look, Mr. Kilicdaroglu also has a very long speech. He uses statements that I'm ashamed to say to the court, that there's no legitimacy left, no recognition left. He says everything. I mean, you're going to criticize the court's decision, it's going to be considered a criticism, it's going to be a coup when the President criticizes it. I want to say that I don't think that's true.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0408par0457	The man at the top...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0404par0458	Patience, calm down. Other than that, Mr. President, after the Constitutional Court ruling, after the release of the subjects from the prison, after the local court complied with that decision. What decision did he influence? Is there a decision that's affected? You know, every day, they call it the "dictator," and they give a lot of criticism. And what I'm saying is that the Constitutional Court doesn't comply with this decision, what kind of dictatorship it is, it doesn't fit this demand. Beyond that, the local court agrees with this Constitutional Court decision. I, therefore, would like to express that we have taken refuge in the knowledge, the wisdom of our nation. There's a court critique, and I think it's a matter of respect.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0409par0460	Thank you. Now, that's interesting. Mr. Bulent Turan asked for a word, and before he could speak, the other members of the group entered the system immediately. He's unpredictable, so they've taken precautions.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0410par0462	Sir, when the dominoe effect began...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0411par0463	No, we went in after he made his point.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0409par0464	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0412par0466	Mr. President, there are two reasons. One of them is that today's coup attempt, the groups have a lot of words to say against the second February coup, but during budget talks, we're waiting for opportunities like this, so we need something like this to condemn this coup attempt as soon as Mr. Bulent takes advantage of it. How do you know? We don't answer the question.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0409par0468	Oh, it's a joke, forget it. You say what you have to say, don't worry about it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0412par0469	It will legitimize Mr. President's situation, but the most interesting determination is that the prime minister's speech, which was distributed to groups, was distributed until the end of time, which was embargoed, which was waiting inside, which was very normal - when he started speaking. Look at the first page, and it says: "I have listened with regret to some of the taunts and insults that have gone beyond criticism. " They printed it a day earlier. (CHP cheers and laughs) Now, from him, these things happen in Parliament. I'll tell you what, no matter what Mr. Bulent Turan says. Once the people's choice doesn't make any difference, then we'll tell them that the people chose Kenan Pasha, and the people chose Hitler. If you say 53 percent of the votes, 93 of the Kenan Universe, they will say 94 percent of Hitler.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0409par0472	Go ahead, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0412par0473	If you say something the leader of the main opposition party said in a group speech in 2007, they remind you of the President's powers, responsibilities and oath -- one of the main opposition leaders said something else -- if there is a separation of forces in the state and harmony between forces and institutions of the state, they remind you of the oath and neutrality made by someone who had sworn to remove it. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0409par0476	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0413par0478	Thank you, Mr. President. We read the President's words on the stand today. Look, very clearly, I don't comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, and I don't respect... Now, there's another word that goes beyond that, and it says that if the court had resisted the verdict, the Constitutional Court's decision would have been in vain. But the same President said in 2010 that if we don't believe in the legal system, if we don't, we can't expect others to believe it. Now, if the President doesn't believe in the legal system, if he doesn't recognize the Constitutional Court's decisions, how can he expect such a thing from 78 million if he says so? It's obvious there's a clear impact on that side. On the other hand, look, in the 2005 case against Orhan Pamuk. The executive cannot interfere with the judiciary. He used clear sentences. Now, he's involved in the run, he's involved in the living, and it's not enough, so here he is on the 28th of February.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0414par0482	Of course he'll interfere with the operation. Isn't he the head of the administration, President?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0413par0483	It's clear here, there's a palace coup process we're talking about.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0414par0484	Don't you know who's in charge?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0413par0485	So, on the will of Parliament, on the principle of separation of forces, on the independence of the judiciary...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0414par0486	Of course he will. Who's throwing the ministers?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0413par0487	...if a president has expressed his opinion and has suggested that there should be unlawful conduct in this matter -- very clear, there is no room for discussion -- there is an open practice of coup. I was particularly hopeful during the Prime Minister's budget speech. Because he described the position of the President as the leader. He said he was the new leader as both the Prime Minister and the President. When I said "Legendary," I thought it meant something that was a little bit of a past, something that wasn't involved in other things. But obviously that doesn't mean anything, so it seems that the President will continue to intervene in the same way as both the living and the running and the judiciary; this is an extremely dangerous approach.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0414par0489	President of the Republic, he'll get involved.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0413par0490	In fact, on that day, when the Prime Minister was speaking, I was curious about one thing: I mean, if the President is the legendary leader...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0414par0491	Earth leader, world.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0413par0492	After that, Mr. Davutoglu, the political leader, may explain Abdullah Gül's position, but as politicians, at least who is the political leader?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0415par0493	If you do, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0413par0494	So right now, yes, we don't know if it's Erdogan, Davutoglu, or Gul, the political leader for the AKP.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0416par0495	None of your business!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0413par0496	That's what interests me.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0417par0497	We know who you are, the Turkish people know, everyone knows.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0416par0498	Who's your leader?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0413par0499	I run politics for the opposition party.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0416par0500	Apo is your leader?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0413par0501	So I have to keep track of which political leader's speech I'm going to consider, so it concerns me closely.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0416par0502	Salih Müslim?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0413par0503	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0418par0504	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0419par0505	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0418par0506	I mean, we've been arguing about this all morning, guys, everything's been said. We'll take a break, we'll move on. Please, let's be more sensitive. Let's take care of it, please. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0419par0509	Mr. President, thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0418par0510	You're welcome.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0419par0511	Some friends are talking about a coup attempt. What a coup attempt, brother! It's a clear blow after a blow, a blow after a blow, and that's what it's going to be. Now that the system has changed, make it up to me. He made himself a two-point constitution. (Made 1: Erdogan is always right. Article 2: Article 2 is valid when Erdoğan is wronged. Look, the President's statement is often discussed today: I don't respect this decision and I don't obey it. There's another sentence as grave as he is, and he says the criminal court shouldn't abide by it. Now, you think of yourself as the judge of the criminal court. Let's see how the judges took it, didn't they take it as a pressure? This statement is a directive that is considered a violation of the judiciary and a crime. A sane statesman in a country should refer to the rule of law, the rule of law, the principle of law, while the head of state, unfortunately, is in violation of the Constitutional duties. That's not an opinion. As head of state, a president cannot express such an opinion. This is clearly a coup. I resent it, and I wire it. We'll fight against it any way we can.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0418par0513	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0420par0515	Mr. President, there's been an election between the Kenan Universe and Erdogan in the coup attempt. There's been an analogy between Recep Tayyip Erdogan. This is a taunt against the will of the people, against democracy, let alone the EC PARTY. I want words in this frame according to 69.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0418par0516	If you'd like your position, it's always been spoken of.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0420par0517	All right, let me get this straight.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0418par0518	Please speak at your place.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0420par0520	Mr. President, this is often brought up. He came with an election and so on and so forth, and the Kenan universe came to power by 92 percent. Kenan accepted the Constitution with 92 percent, and he named it after himself, as you remember, you know the atmosphere of the time.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0421par0521	You follow similar tactics.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0420par0522	Remember, Kenan was not able to rule the party of the fool, which was supported by the Universe. Two: If the Kenan universe had appeared before the people for a second time, it would not have taken 92 percent, let alone that frown.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0421par0523	It's gonna happen to yours...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0420par0524	Recep Tayyip Erdogan has won every election since 2002, every choice. In 2002, 2004, 2007, 2009, 2011, 2013... 2014, he was President by 52 percent. How do you compare them? Did the people strike each time, Mr. Free? Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0422par0527	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0423par0528	Mr. President, I have a request, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0422par0529	You've just spoken, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0423par0530	Now Mr. Naci has made a commitment to taunting the Bosnian president.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0422par0531	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0423par0532	I'd like to ask Mr. Bostanci, what I didn't quite understand today, what I didn't fully understand.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0424par0533	You talked, you talked.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0425par0534	You wouldn't understand.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0423par0535	Because every time the President is bullied, he demands and responds on behalf of the President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0426par0536	What's the big deal? What's wrong with you?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0423par0537	When the president left today at the airport, he said, "I won't be here for a few days, it could get messy." Now I wonder: What is it that can be mixed up? What is it he says? Is there going to be a coup? Is there going to be a civil war?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0426par0538	Mr. Baluken, you are now Mr. Bostanci...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0423par0539	People are going to die? So...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0426par0540	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0423par0541	But, Mr. President, would you please...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0426par0542	Why did you promise Mr. Bostanci to the President? Is that what you want to ask?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0423par0543	No, no.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0427par0544	When our president arrives, we'll ask him what he means.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0423par0545	I'm telling you, Mr. Bostanci has responded to every bullying against Mr. President in advance today. So he's got a role and a mission like that.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0428par0546	Well, there is because he's the former founding president. [[Noises from CHP, HDP and MPP rows]] Come in, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0423par0549	Well, okay, so if there's a mission like this...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0429par0551	The country's President, the country, binds all of us, ties you to what they say, binds the Constitutional Court, binds the House.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0428par0552	I can't hear you guys.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0423par0553	Yeah, listen up, guys.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0428par0554	If there is such a mission...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0423par0555	It didn't reflect enough on the press, maybe it did, we couldn't see it. He said, "I'm going to Africa, here I am going abroad, things can get complicated in a few days." I say, Mr. Bostanci, on this authority and duty, can he explain to us what Mr. President said here? Is there going to be a coup? Is there going to be a civil war? People are going to die? We have a right to know. Again, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0428par0557	I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0423par0558	According to Mr. President's statement, I'm also following with an example that the AKP group's deputy leaders have either taken off as lawyers or changed their minds here. Look, I was here when Mr. Erdem Gül and Can Dündar were evacuated. AKP Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Bkent Bey, has expressed a great welcome to the evacuations, but today, every time he opens his mouth, he talks about his rights, his authority.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0428par0559	Thank you. Mr. Baluken, talk to me, because I don't hear you when you get back there.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0423par0561	Do you think according to Erdogan, or do you think according to the facts, we have the right to ask, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0428par0562	I just...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0430par0563	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0431par0564	Mr. President, I'm not...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0428par0565	No, I'm hanging up.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0431par0566	No, don't hang up, Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0428par0567	A voice rose when I just called you the editor-in-chief. Is that a lie?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0432par0568	Not right now, the President, right now, the President, the President of everyone!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0431par0569	Mr. President, one sentence...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0428par0570	Wait a minute... Well, I'm also asking you this question, so think about it and I'll take a break...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0431par0572	No, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0433par0573	Be neutral!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0428par0574	Where is the ruling that the EC PARTY should be impartial against the President of the Justice and Development Party? He's nowhere to be found.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0433par0575	Be neutral!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit05spe0428par0576	I'll take 45 minutes off from the merger, and we'll continue with the Serkan Cripple.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0428par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 47th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks with the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Computation Bill. 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board Final Account for Central Management 2014 THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2016 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2014 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Presidency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2014 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2014 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2016 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2014 "I") "Turkish History Building" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Historical Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Administration Final Account for 2014 Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. We were listening to the speakers on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, we will now hear from Hatay MP Serkan Topal. Here you go, Mr. Clumsy. (Applause) Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0434par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you all. I see the AKP MPs are outside right now. I guess they got away from the truth. Yes, after an incident has happened, the AFAD, which talks more about itself with its mistakes and shortcomings, is governed by a mentality linked to the AKP government. I have nothing to say to AFAD's workers in the field, thank them all, kiss their foreheads. AFAD officials who did not show a tenth of the effort and excitement of Taner Yildiz's white shirt not to be soiled in Soma. I'm sorry, but you're also dealing with the question of whether you're saving the AKP or the ones who are in distress. We have not forgotten Soma. Let us go in and save our friends! The cry of the neighbor is our cry today. Mr. Group Chairman, who worked there that day, I also send my regards to Soma. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Let the AKP take a pick-up, extend the hours to increase the exploitation, let the workers work, under non-human conditions, not control, make the subcontractor the crown, and then, when the stove collapses, let the AFAD be helpless... Mr. Secretary, where were the donations collected after the Soma massacres spent by whom? That's what we want to know. Please, let's explain here. Speaking of budgets, look at article 85 of the budget law bill (E) bill you brought in, which says: "Refunded funds for emergency assistance are transferred to a private account in order to be registered in the presidential budget. Expenses from the private account are exceptional to Law 5018 and Law 4734. What do you mean, apart from what? So it's a law clause that wants to be abducted from the Court of Justice. Is that correct? So if you say yes to that, you'll be saying yes to the withdrawal of people's money. Look, in 2004, you guys passed a law on this, closed the private accounts and removed them. You even bragged about it. Even then, private accounts are a source of corruption, money that is not accounted for, you said. So what now? There's a special account in a lot of the E-sections. Come on, come on, explain it here. See, 927 million and 18 thousand have been earmarked in the final account budget of the Bank of Accounting Office in 2013; 1 billion 222 million, 760 thousand liras have been transferred with a backup grant by an E ruler. And that part of the subsidized grant is the part where our nation does not give you the authority of lawmakers. You, of all people, know how to open the doors of rant, even through disaster, chaos, blood, tears, you're very good at it. Of course, there may be natural disasters, but it is your duty to prevent the damage and loss of life, the government's duty. We used to be a country face to face with floods, and now with your politics, you're starting to bring disaster to the nation every day. We were a country that lived in great earthquakes, and now you're taking live bombs naturally. Floods, avalanches, landslides were frequent in this country, and now you're taking martyr funerals more often than they are. But, you know, we don't take it for granted. In our country, I gave the order to kill children with their kicks on the street. You who say, "Syriane needs democracy." We've seen the democracy you're trying to lead, we've seen the dead bodies, we've seen the guns. Look, asylum seekers are our guests, so we have nothing to say. You shut down hotels for them, you shut down hospitals, some of the healed are going back to war in Syria. Why don't you give it to your own citizens while you're mobilising the resources of the state for them? So why can't you find a cure for the unemployment of my citizen in Yaylahağı, my son in Bırıkhan, my brother in Defne, my citizen in Antioch, Alexander's house? My citizen with a green card will line up, deposit money, go to the hospital, find a bed in intensive care, and then die; you're the culprits. You're victimizing my citizen while you're helping. So my citizen has to be an asylum seeker to take advantage of them, the resources of the state, the taxes he pays? I'm asking you. Now, sometimes you say: "We have mastered it. " Yes, you have mastered it. You have mastered and mastered inviting disasters to this country, you have mastered putting up this sign at the gates of all the borders of our country: Turiste, stop! You know well to turn 180 degrees to the investor! You know well, Al Qaeda, to the blood-fed terror, to the PKK, to ISIS! (CHP) You've mastered, mastered. You've mastered the spread of violence and fear on the streets, the hanging of this sign. Unfortunately, you've mastered it, you're trying to build cities our children can no longer enter, you've mastered them. You've become so masterful, you've entered people's bedrooms, started branding them from their religion to their sexuality, you've mastered them.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0435par0068	It's so childish! Childish, childish!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0436par0069	Shame, shame! It's a shame!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0437par0070	What country are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0438par0071	So much news of martyrs coming in, you put up with it, you put up with the mortars thrown at our country every day by ISIS, you put up with your ministers who robbed Turkey, but you can't stand the students who freely criticize you using their democratic rights. You've filed lawsuits against even those of the martyrs who cried out in their hearts. You don't have the patience for this people or the nation that loves this country, but we don't have the patience for you and this nation, and I want you to know that.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0437par0072	On November 1st, the people made their decision, November 1st.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0438par0073	In the Middle East, we have no patience for your speech, your tongue that fuels war, your policies that divide people into twos and threes. For our country, it's a bigger disaster than floods or earthquakes or hurricanes, but the AKP government is the biggest disaster. (Applause from CHP rows) The destruction of the AKP government can't be corrected not by 1 AFAD, but by 10 AFADs in 50 years. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0439par0077	What country did you mention?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0440par0078	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0441par0079	Mr. President, just...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0440par0080	Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0441par0081	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0440par0082	I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0441par0083	I'm going to tell him to go on record, and I'm not going to answer. It's really starting to sound funny now, this kind of conversation by the vet. The government feeds on blood and war. As al-Qaeda said, aiding PKK terrorist organizations and has just removed...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0440par0086	Congressmans, please, I can't hear you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0441par0087	He says we don't accept any of this, how we fight terrorist organizations, and the visa our nation has given us for thirteen years is the best example, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0440par0089	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, we will listen to Tekirdağ MP Emre Bridgelı. Here you go, Mr. Bridge.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0442par0093	We also thank Mr. Salim Nice.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0440par0094	You're welcome.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0443par0095	Mr. President, I have taken a vow on the TİKA - Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency of the budget bill for 2016 - and on the presidency of the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys. I salute the High Council. Honourable lawmakers, the aim of budgeting, of course, is to maintain control, to see the spending pens of public taxes, to oversee the work of institutions in certain cases. Now, we're doing budget talks today where TİKA and the Turks abroad and the Relative Communitys are two of the institutions of the state, where taxes collected from the public will be transferred to these institutions. In terms of TİKA, I must say: Indeed, TİKA (TİKA) has some projects that we enjoy. I've especially seen some restoration work in place, and I'd like to thank the others for their hard work. But, of course, when we look at the founding philosophy of the TİKA (TİKA), especially after Soviet Russia broke down and the Turkish republics were established, we all see that the TİKA (TİKA), which was set up to work there in particular, is completely out of the way today. Today, the TİKA is unfortunately stuck in Africa, especially Africa. We are experiencing a process in which the sense of service in that institution was recently established and tried to be rescued by the Turkish and Relative Community abroad. But let me be clear, this isn't going well. Now, on the commission, we listen to the Deputy Prime Minister, we listen to the representatives of the institution at some of their meetings, we just listen to the AKP lawmakers; we hear the same things all the time. In particular, the TİKA says: "We have opened more than 50 offices to the country, Tanzania, Bangladesh, Djibouti, Colombia, even in Latin America, we have opened offices, we have grown up, we have made investments. We congratulate you, but we must say, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister: You have opened the office of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency in Colombia, and you want to be applauded, you want to be applauded, you want to be congratulated. Well, then let me ask you another question: Do you feel a little flushed because you have opened an office in Colombia, because there are over 200,000 Turkish people living in Greece and West Thrace? You opened an office in Colombia, you asked for applause, you were nowhere near 200,000 Turks in West Thrace. Let's say more: we opened an office in Kenya in Chad, in Namibia...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0444par0101	Don't you want him to open it?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0443par0102	You're hungry, we're supportive, we're not saying you're hungry or not. Why are you looking at it this way? Open it up, open it up over there, but I'll tell you this: do some work in Bulgaria, where more than 1 million Turks and Muslims live, and do something there. So...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0444par0103	We're doing it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0443par0104	You're doing it! The last thing that was done with Bulgaria was our Burgas Consul, the non grata, the unwanted man, the Istanbul Consul of Bulgaria, the non grata, the unwanted man! (CHP cheers) Now, is this how TİKA (TİKA)'s activities will work? Let's say another thing: you have such large investments, such large studies; there is Cisr-i Mustafapaşa within 20 kilometers of the border; his name today is Svilengrad. Five months ago, I told Deputy Prime Minister Numan Salkmiş, who was in charge of the TİKA (TİKA) at that time, I said: There is a bridge built by architect Sinan. Well, you've opened an office in Namibia, we congratulate you, open up more countries, but look at the opening of TİKA (TİKA), look at the opening of the Turkish abroad, and look at the purpose of the establishment. Go to all four parts of the world, spread out, but remember, don't lose your purpose. There's something else, I'm just listening to it: it's the need to be a great state, it says TİKA. Yes, TİKA is a need to be a great state, but if we are a great state, if we want to make TİKA (TİKA) an institution, then you will have an office in Greece, you will have an office in Bulgaria, you will have an office in China, where millions of Muslims and Turks live, and you will have an office in Russia. You're looking for applause for opening an office in Namibia, Chad, Djibouti, we congratulate you, but we also want you to be a little embarrassed that you don't have any work here. I guess we have a right to say that. Now, valued lawmakers, we see an understanding of a TİKA that is really stuck in Africa today. Of course, we have to bring his work into the law of neighbouring, into kinship, into the scope of this work a little bit more, but I can't say this: Now, look, it's imperative that we make the bureaucratic elections right in TİKA If you want to run a hospital, you need to appoint a doctor, appoint an attorney, or appoint an engineer, you can't manage a hospital, or if you're going to build a building, you need to bring an engineer, an architect. If you put the doctor in charge of that building, that building won't grow. The same goes for TİKA. In TİKA, if you have been brought up within the institution, or working with people who have actually experienced foreign policy, who have worked with you for many years, what if this was my principal, my chief of staff, and this was there with me, it was here. If you say, and bring people to the head of institutions, then I'm afraid you're not getting successful results. Especially when you've been through such a bad time in foreign policy, and you've taken the wrong step in your bureaucratic choices, and that's how it comes out. Now, we have a few suggestions, and that's what we propose: really, in particular today, when we look at the budget for TİKA (TİKA) or when we look at the budget for the foreign Turks and the relative communities, very large sums have been sent. It's people's taxes. The worker, the pensioner, the money in the child's pocket goes here, and we want to achieve our spiritual satisfaction with it, and we want to take care of our work from the past, but at some point we want our investments in the country's financial future to come back as a service. Our work will satisfy our spiritual feelings and at the same time, perhaps at the next point, we have to invest in Turkey, especially as an export, perhaps as a contractor's activity, and I hope that today, by considering the institutional philosophy, the TİKA will do a little better work. In this regard, I respectfully salute the General Assembly, saying that we will vote against the budget.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0445par0111	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan will speak now. Here you are, Mr. Bilgehan.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0446par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I have been promised on behalf of my party on the budget of 2016 of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute. I salute you. Dear MPs, I begin my speech by honoring and thanking Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our unique leader, who created a new state from an empire that founded the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the republic and still our greatest brand in the world. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I felt the need to do so because I think women should be the first to evaluate Ataturk. The principle of marriage to one woman, the age limit of marriage, the actual adoption of a civilized marriage, the right to divorce a man by one side in front of a marriage officer and witnesses, the right to divorce a woman by one side -- be empty, be empty, be empty -- and the rights of women, such as the rights of the marriage union by court order, were made by the adoption of the most important of the Ataturk revolutions in 1926. Do you know that in the 21st century, most of the women living in our geography still don't have these rights that we acquired 90 years ago? So, at the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History, whose purpose is to live up to Ataturk values, first, frankly, I'd like to see a woman's weight. For example, a study can be done. Why are we the 2nd and 105th women in the world in 1935, and today we are the 105th? Why did the European Court of Human Rights condemn Turkey for the second time because it failed to maintain the woman's right to live? There is no other country but us, condemned by the European Court of Human Rights on this matter. Why are we the last of the OECD countries to participate in her work life? I've been looking for women's power at the High Office. According to the report of activity submitted to the budget, gender distribution among the institution staff is fair; 25 of 48 of the staff are women, 23 of them are men, but there is a problem -- as in other areas, women have encountered this problem, they hit the glass ceiling -- there is not a single female president in the institution. He served only one woman at the Turkish Language Foundation at the Research Centre of 3 at the Science Board of 20 members of the Ataturk Cultural Centre. Professor Afet İnan is one of the founders of the historical institution and there are no female managers. It's obvious when you look at this prestigious Court. Of course, in fact, we know that this institution that we're talking about today has nothing to do with the institutions in the will of Ataturk. Ataturk, of course, donated part of his income as an inheritance to the Turkish Historical Institution established in 1931, which he cared deeply about, and to the Turkish Language Foundation, founded in 1932. These institutions were autonomous scientific institutions that chose their own rulers in those years, not like the government offices that were converted by the 82 Constitution. We have suggested that during each budget period, a constitutional arrangement on this issue should be made and the institutions be independent by the will of its founder. Since 2002, I know how easily legal changes have been accepted when requested in this Parliament. Many substances have changed, but the status of these institutions, just like the Higher Education Board, has been carefully preserved. In the years before that, we know that even the victims of Ergenekon and Sledgehammer, who are being apologized to today, have produced more works of Ataturk, than these institutions in prison. Looking at events that have stood out to us this year: "Abdireşid İbrahim Bilgi Söleni" -- he is the man who has made Islam known as an official religion in Japan -- ▪Miryokefalon Victory's 839/Yurkian Year's Year's Eve Celebration (Current Year) -- the International Symposium of Birgi Symposium, which has paid off from the York Obama. There is no doubt that they are interesting subjects, and I have no objection, but there is only one symposium in the history of the Republic of Ataturk, which was arranged in Azerbaijan. What, though, are these institutions, for example, doing in private channels, but especially in a public institution, TRT, that occasionally drive citizens mad with anger, that protect the Ataturk principles of Ataturk? Do they press charges, do they have statements condemning TRT, or, more importantly, do they reveal the truth of the distorted historical facts? By the way, there's a mystery. Between 2000-2013, the Ataturk International Peace Prize was not awarded. The International Peace Prize Charter, which was drafted in accordance with Article 27/3/2013 of Article 664 issued in 2011, was published and carried out in the Official Gazette 28585. According to the regulation, there would be a reward for the years that ended with 0 and 5. The nomination process will then begin from 19 May to 29 October 2014, the Supreme Institution said. According to the statement, the name of the recipient or institution would be announced on April 23, 2015, and the award ceremony would take place on May 19, 2015, but since then, there has been no news of this award. I'm really curious, I'd like to ask the Minister -- he's just joined the government -- but haven't they found a leader to give the International Peace Prize in 2015? Dear lawmakers, as the main opposition party, we have stated that parliament has obstacles in the use of its budget rights. A clause added to the budget bill on this institution is also said to be transferred to a private account for the money set aside for a recent historical survey of the Turkish Historical Institution. The money in this particular account is excluded from the Public Contraction Act and the Financial Control Act, so it seems impossible to know for what purposes the resources from Ataturk (Ataturk)'s private account are being used. In these circumstances, I pay my respects to the High Council, reminding them that the memory and spiritual heritage of Ataturk (Ataturk) is in the heart of our nation.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0447par0128	Thank you, Mr. Bilgehan. The sixth speaker of the Republican People's Party Group is Amasya MP Mustafa Tuncer. Here you go, Mr. Tuncer.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0448par0132	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the budgetary budgetary Ataturk Research Centre, abbreviated under budget talks in 2016. I salute you all with love and respect. He says welcome to us Can Dündar and Erdem Güle, who have been released on the basis of the Constitutional Court's legal and conscientious decision for publishing the facts and informing the public. He says, thanking the Supreme Court judges who have signed this decision, asking that journalists and members of the press who are still under arrest be granted their freedom as soon as possible, and condemning the President's statement today's coup attempt on the state of law. Dear MPs, the Ataturk Research Centre, the Ataturk Research Centre, the Ataturkian idea, the Ataturk principle and its languages, were founded on 2876 Laws on August 17, 1983, under the moral protection and support of the President, in order to study and promote Turkish history and Turkish language in a scientific way. Following the 12 September coup against Ataturk (Ataturk) and Ataturk's institutions, the Turkish Institute of History and the Turkish Language Foundation, which were established by Ataturk (Ataturk) and the Institute of Artaturk Cultural Center and Ataturk Culture, Language and History, was established, as well as the foundation of the Ataturk Research Centre. Dear lawmakers, we can ask what happens when you change your name. It sounds like a normal change at first glance, but we see big differences in legal status and practice. First of all, I would like to point out that the destruction of institutions established by the Great Ataturk himself is to eliminate the will and will of Ataturk. Trying to erase the patriarchal thought and the traces of Ataturk (Aaturk) from the will of the nation, which will not be accomplished. The Turkish Language and Turkish Historical Institutions, founded by the Great Ataturk, are an organization that is not subject to any political power, is closed to the intervention of political authorities, and is completely independent and supports those who produce science and produce science. The budget of these institutions was covered by Ataturk himself at the time of Ataturk, and then by shares in the Turkish Business Bank on the will that Ataturk had left in its own handwriting. After the coup of September 12th, the two institutions were adopted, including the Ataturk Research Centre and the Ataturk Cultural Centre, and the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, which also includes the President's protection. The president and administration of the institution are elected by the President, the Prime Minister and the relevant ministry. So, the institution, which was completely independent and free of the influence of political will in Ataturk's time, has now been transformed into an institution entirely dependent on political will. As a matter of fact, from the day it was founded to this day, even from the time it took place. Gov. It is very clear how much the institution has been neutralized and transformed into an institution that has been virtually abandoned. As we look at the 33-year-old Ataturk Research Centre's 33-year-old activities -- taken from its website -- in 1987, 1991, 1995, 1999, 2003, 2007 and 2011 -- in 33 years, only seven international Ataturk Congresss have been held. The institution can hold a convention every four years, almost like a four-year development plan, and all four of the seven congresses are held in Ankara, where friends are able to see them shopping. It's so ineffective and inoperable that it's unrecognizable and unrecognizable to the public. Dear MPs, I ask the Supreme Assembly and the Directors of the Ataturk Research Centre: You will hold only seven congresses in thirty-three years, so you will hold a convention once every four years, you will have a non-recognizable organization among the public, and there will still be announcements on your website five or six months ago, and you will not be able to update your website, you will be able to publish the magazine "ATAMAM" three times a year, and you will issue it in low circulation, but you will ask the High Assembly for a budget every year, and you will ask for a special budget. Don't you have a bad conscience? Don't you ever say we don't deserve this budget? Precious MPs were charged with 13 tasks at the Ataturk Research Centre, founded in 1983 in place of Ataturk's Foundation for Turkish Language and Turkish History, but the duties of the institution were reduced to 11 articles issued on 2 November 2011 by the Law of 664. The item of duty is that the scientific research to present clear, precise, and fundamental concepts that will allow each part of society to merge into the same view of Ataturcian thought, Ataturk principles and languages, is to ensure that the Ataturcian thought is established and spread. Dear lawmakers, in a society that has not been eliminated after the 1980 coup, the task of placing and disseminating the Ataturcian thought, unfortunately, was excluded from the scope of the mandate issued during the AKP rule in 2011. However, the mission of this great Parliament should not be to seek to remove the traces of the country's Ataturk, and to bring in the presidency, but to eliminate all traces of coup law, particularly the Turkish Language and Turkish Historical Foundation, to re-establish all institutions that have been disabled and eliminated, independent and autonomous. However, we regret to see that in the 93rd year of the republic's establishment, all criticisms and attacks on the person and the republic established by Ataturk are being carried out against them, and the ruling party remains silent. For example, in a program published a short time ago, such as the AKP's press and publishing body, there was an open broadcast of slanders about Ataturk, Ismet Inönu and those times, and the AKP remained silent in front of this publication, while the government did not process the broadcaster nor the TRT General Director, even the program and even the General Manager. Returning from such wrong and biased attitudes will also bring peace and social reconciliation, as will be in the interests of the Turkish nation and our republic. Dear MPs, the integrity of the city and the independence of the nation are at stake. The nation's independence will again save the nation's determination and decision. As a member of my beautiful Amasya, I say again from here to the great assembly and to our nation: The great Ataturk, we will not give up on you, nor will we give up on your works. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0449par0144	Thank you, Mr. Tuncer. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Afyonkarahisar MP Burcu Koksal will speak. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0450par0148	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the budget of the Ataturk Cultural Centre. First, I remember Yasar Kemal, the great master of our literature, on the anniversary of his death, with respect and mercy. (HPP) In his world-renowned novel "Tiny Memed," when Memed went to kill the Agha, he said: "Ince Memed, what good is it to kill me? He comes to another network. He says, "Let it be Fine Memed, another thin Memed." All hail from here, all the brave Thin Memeds who can stand in the face of corrupt order. Today, I condemn the President of this country, who has been denied the Constitutional Court's decision to create its own law. And on February 28th, I call it a civilian coup.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0451par0151	For God's sake! Who are you to condemn the President?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0450par0152	The Ataturk Cultural Center is an institution that carries the name of our founding leader, which performs scientific activities to investigate, study our culture and strengthen national identity and consciousness. Unfortunately, in our country, where the Ministry of Culture and Tourism budget does not find even five percent of the total budget, the AKP's power is also trying to become a political staff in the culture and art business sector, as in many areas. İstanbul Ataturk Cultural Centre is the symbol of the republic and is the largest opera house in Europe. You know, the cultural center that closed its doors to our citizens in 2008 and was still waiting to be opened. Why didn't you open this place? Is it your insufferability in the name of Ataturk? You attempted destruction in 2007, İstanbul 2 No. The lu Investigation Board registered it as a cultural presence, no destruction. In 2008, you made an original tender for proper restoration, but since 2008, unfortunately, its doors are still closed. Someone says we've removed the 9 years of debris. The sum of the republic you call a wreck is solid, its foundation is solid, no one can afford to destroy it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0452par0156	Bravo.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0450par0158	But we say that it is our duty to clean up the debris left by you on the day of the end of AKP power.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0453par0160	You wait too long, too long.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0450par0161	We're talking government budget here. So, do you ever wonder what people's budget is like? Farmers in riots, workers in riots, pensioners in riots, pensioners in riots, college-level elbow rots and years of unemployment. We know you want to pass the candy law in the coming months. With this law, you will threaten our health and finish the beet-planters, do you care about their budget? Milk producers sell milk between 90 and 95 cents per kilo in my constituency, Afyonkarahisar, and are said to drop to 88 cents in March. At the time, we removed the VAT. You said, "For 42 liras, the feed went up to 45-46 liras. The price of milk is going down, but the price of vows is going up, isn't there something wrong with that? Soon, unfortunately, the milk producers will have to cut off their cows, do you care about their budget? Last year, the potato had a low recluse due to mimidıyöle disease, and the recluse fell. I've made a motion to pay for the damages to this Parliament, do you care? And now the potato manufacturers are still at a loss, even though they've fallen off the rack, and those potatoes have been left to rot in the warehouses, and they can't sell them. And how are the same potato manufacturers going to sell these potatoes -- they're not going to be sick, they're not going to fall -- they're going to be produced this year, they're not going to have a low recluse? Have you ever considered their budget?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0454par0165	Let us send the potatoes to Tuğrul Bey, to Tuğrul Bey.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0455par0166	Yell at the potatoes, you're a good screamer.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0450par0167	We have the Sultandağı district in Afyonkarahisar. The only town you don't thank is the district where the Republican People's Party is the 1st. We have Sultandağı cherry, which is registered in that district. Do you care about their budget, our cherry makers are at risk because of this cherry? And those cherry makers came to the point where they took out the cherry trees because they're hurting, they can't make money, but do you care?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0456par0168	What does any of this have to do with the institution you've been promised?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0450par0169	Now, take a look at these photos, these are the dwellings of citizens living in Dinar.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0456par0170	What does any of this have to do with the institution you've been promised?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0457par0171	Quiet, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0450par0172	These are citizens of the Republic of Turkey, people whose homes have been destroyed and their land seized as part of urban transformation, and in return, people who have been given 2+1, 63 square metres of use in the most remote corner of Dinar. They have been condemned to live in flats with stoves, without proper infrastructure and lighting. We'll give it to you at $45.700. You want to pay $63,000 for the housing you call it today, and tomorrow's the deadline for the contract. You're saying if they don't sign this contract, you'll throw them out of the houses. Where's your humanity? Where's your populace, where's everybody?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0458par0173	No, why are you yelling like that!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0450par0174	Do you care about these people's budgets? There are 75-year-olds who try to make a living cleaning stairs. There are people going from 30 lira a day to anchor and trying to bring bread home in these, and they're all narrow-income citizens. The documents for all of them have reached the TOKI, and they are in danger of being left out on the street because they cannot pay the $63,000. And do you care about their budget? You're thinking about the government's budget, you're thinking about the palace's covered funding...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0459par0175	There's no palace maray, it's ash, it's ash, didn't you learn that?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0450par0176	... You're budgeting 1.5 trillion lira a day for a palace, so why don't you use the budget for these people?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0459par0178	You didn't learn that! That's the ash, learn, learn, it's the ash.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0450par0179	Do you care about these people's budgets? Do you care about their budgets? Please think of them. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0460par0182	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0461par0183	Mr. Tuğrul will answer. Isn't that right, Mr. Tuğrul, you'll answer, won't you?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0462par0184	Mr. President, I have a brief request for 60.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0460par0185	I don't hear it, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0462par0186	According to the Civil Charter, I have a brief request for my position.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0460par0187	According to 60, here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0463par0188	If Mr. Tuğrul gets stuck, he'll move on to another party!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0464par0189	Oh, yeah!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0465par0190	If the answer gets stuck, we'll have another party...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0463par0191	Of course. If Mr. Tuğrul doesn't seem to be able to answer, he'll move on to another party!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0464par0192	Mr. Ozgur says if Mr. Tuğrul gets stuck, he'll move to another party.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0466par0193	Congressmans, please... Mr. Baluken speaking. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0467par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, are watching us all over Turkey right now. So we wanted to share information that had reached us with all of our people. There is a significant development today regarding the ISIS attack in Tel Abyad, which we present at the General Assembly meetings. The ISIS attack on the Arab, Kurdish, Turkmen, Ashurani, Süryani, Armenian, Shii, Sunni, Christians and other religious people is now completely broken, according to what we have been told. Tel Abyad (Gre Spi) is completely free to stand up in the face of violent ISIS gangs' attacks. This is also a very important development for our border security. We, the People's Democratic Party, want to express once again that we are on the side of the people of Rojava against these savage, barbaric gangs. Today, Mr. President stated that the ISIS had 70 per cent of Tel Abyad. I think his advisors have passed on their wishes and the wishes of the President as information. So I'm saying that this is the correct information on this. In particular, I would like to remind the AKP group's deputy presidents to quickly deliver the latest developments in this false misinformation to Mr. President and not to act on this matter with false or wishful thinking that would undermine Turkey's reputation in foreign policy. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0468par0202	God bless you!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0469par0203	Mr. Idris, why do you need this?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0470par0204	Thank you, too. 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board Final Account for Central Management 2014 THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2016 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2014 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Presidency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2014 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2014 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2016 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2014 "I") "Turkish History Building" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Historical Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Administration Final Account for 2014 The eighth speaker of the Republican People's Party Group is Mr. Tanju Özcan. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0471par0251	Just talk without yelling.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0472par0252	For God's sake, don't shout. Easy, easy, easy.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0253	I'm calm, I'm calm.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0474par0254	You started talking before you got to the microphone, Mr. Ozcan. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0256	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, and I salute the General Assembly. Yes, tonight, of course, I'm going to say a few words about the Turkish Language Foundation, but before that, I have something to say about this particular debate.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0475par0258	Don't go in there if you want.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0476par0259	It's incomplete.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0260	Of course, if I don't say it, it's incomplete. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, today has been a very serious situation for Turkey.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0477par0262	He's bad for you, bad for you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0263	What does the President of the Republic of Turkey say? I don't sleep, I don't know... and I don't respect it. What's he singing for? Against the Constitutional Court's decision.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0478par0264	Say something new, Mr. Tanju.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0265	Now, if Mr. President had said in his usual manner, I don't like this decision, but I respect it. If he had said it, we would have respected it. As a lawyer, there are a lot of decisions that we don't like.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0479par0266	You've been saying that all morning.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0267	But what do we say after these decisions come out? Even if we don't believe it, we respect that decision. Of course, I don't know if it would be a luxury for us to expect that virtue from the President. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Of course, a player just made a change, and the AKP Group has replaced the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0479par0270	Don't say "player," not "player."
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0480par0271	Well, we asked questions, but there's no answer to that question.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0272	So we were satisfied, we were satisfied. There was no answer. They're probably in the hall right now, getting a brush from the person at the end of the phone call from the palace.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0481par0273	Don't be so personal, Mr. Ozcan, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0274	Guys, this is the first time I've seen you, I've seen the AKP Group's group presidents so miserable.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0482par0275	For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0276	So, friends, what are you trying to defend?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0483par0277	Don't insult me, don't insult me!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0278	Is that a thing? The Constitutional Court says I don't know the verdict, I don't respect it, I don't respect it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0484par0279	That's right... that's right...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0280	He's saying something heavier. You know, when he gave instructions to the trustees, he said, "Leave the legislation." Now, to the judges of Turkey, to their judges who are in charge of delivering justice, don't make such decisions.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0484par0281	He's right.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0282	My friends, I'm sorry, I can't find a lighter sentence, but it's for us to say, "Woe be to the owner of these sentences."
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0484par0284	Shame on you! Woe to you, and woe to you!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0485par0285	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0286	And I'm telling you, Mr. President, but without saying it, but without saying it, my tongue must say it was a slip and apologize to the Turkish nation immediately.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0484par0287	He doesn't respect the Constitutional Court's decision.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0485par0288	Shame on the President of this country. You can't say that.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0289	He needs to apologize right away. Shame on them. Shame on them.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0485par0290	Shame on the President of this country. You can't say that.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0291	Shame, shame.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0485par0292	You can't... you can't...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0473par0293	What the President has done is shameful, and he must apologize without any excuse. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Congressmans, I've come up here to express my thoughts about the Turkish Language Foundation, but I don't know what to express.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0486par0296	Congressmans, please don't insult the speaker. Mr. Speaker, don't bother with the character, please. Please, come to your cone.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0487par0298	Mr. President, he can't say to the President of this country, "Woe to you."
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0488par0299	We're talking about a disemboweled institution. We're talking about an institution that lost its mission, lost the mission. Guys, I'm not gonna say this, I think you all know. The Turkish Language Foundation was founded by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and there are probably no AKP MPs who don't know that.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0487par0301	Don't insult me!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0488par0302	So why did Mustafa Kemal Ataturk establish the Turkish Language Foundation?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0487par0303	Don't insult me! What do you mean? Are you being condescending?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0488par0304	There was an argument tonight, a few hours ago, there was an argument, and there were people who claimed to have set it up in a racist and fascist manner.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0487par0305	Are you being condescending? What does that mean? What does that mean?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0488par0306	Friends, you've never understood Ataturk, you've never understood the concept of a nation, you've never understood what really happened. Guys, what's the Turkish Language Foundation for? To consolidate the nation's understanding of state, one was founded to purge the world's richest language of Turkish language from foreign words and make it as pure as possible. Now you're saying, friends, that it's built with a racist and fascist understanding. We say that it's built as a manifestation of the nation's sense of state, built to strengthen it. Look, I'm going to give you an interesting example. Who was the first person to head the Turkish Language Foundation in Turkey?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0489par0310	Agop Dilaçar.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0488par0311	Yes, who is it? Beggars. Agop Dilaçar is an ethnically Armenian citizen. Is it true? Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is a leader who knows the country well enough to know that, isn't he? He's putting an Armenian citizen in charge of this institution. What's he bringing it for? Would he do that if he had a racist understanding? Could such a thing happen, or if it's based on a racist understanding... that in those days racism, fascism began to dominate the world -- in the 1930s -- you're leading an Armenian-rooted citizen to the Turkish Language Foundation. Because, in the sense that Ataturk is understood, Turkish is the binding element of the nation's understanding of state. He's doing it in that sense, and thank God Mr. Agop knows that, so he's taking over this institution, and he's served honorably for many years. Yes, lawmakers, as of today, this institution does not function according to its purpose, according to its mission. Although Mr. Vice Prime Minister Tuğrul doesn't listen. Mr. Tuğrul, if you won't listen to this, what will you listen to?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0490par0316	You address the General Assembly correctly, Mr. Tanju Özcan.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0488par0317	You don't have anything else to do, you're just the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the Turkish Language Foundation.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0490par0318	Would you please address the General Assembly?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0488par0319	I'm not calling you Mr. Turkesh. Your late father -- we don't agree with his ideas, but -- is a respected figure who has marked Turkish politics in Turkey. That's why I only call you Mr. Tuğrul.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0490par0320	Mr. Özcan, please address the General Assembly and don't bother with the person.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0488par0321	I don't blame the AKP at this point, and I think they did it right.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0491par0322	Mr. President, are you adjusting?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0490par0323	Open the charter! Open the charter!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0488par0324	Like you, with all due respect, they couldn't find another institution to give to a political return, they only gave it to this institution when there are such important institutions in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0492par0325	For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0488par0326	I told you then, Mr. Tuğrul Bey -- I don't mean to insist -- you're selling your case, your ideology for a dry seat.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0493par0328	Don't insult me! You can't say that to our minister! Talk here, talk here.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0494par0329	Mind your own business! Mind your own business!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0493par0330	Don't insult the Minister!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0494par0331	If you're done talking, get out!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0493par0332	Don't insult the Minister.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0495par0333	This really is a dry seat. You're Deputy Prime Minister, but the Turkish Language Foundation is the only one connected to you; you have no other responsibilities, no other duties.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0494par0335	Mr. Minister, if you're done talking, please don't tease our Minister.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0495par0336	I don't blame you at this point. In the past, you've become a habit of taking political turncoats and using them and putting them aside after they've expired.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0494par0338	You talk too much, it's empty!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0495par0339	I don't blame you in that sense. Friends, we're talking from the Turkish Language Foundation, the executives of Turkey, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister can't use Turkish properly. Friends, there is no letter in Turkish. Ce-Ha-Pe not Ce-He-Pe, Me-Ha-Pe not Me-He-Pe, Ha-De-Pe not He-De-Pe.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0494par0342	Not the AKP, the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0496par0343	Tell him about the PKK. Come on, say Pe-Ke-Ke.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0495par0344	Therefore, I would like to say that I am truly ashamed as a deputy of the Republic of Turkey, that these people who don't even know that, especially those who have polluted Turkish, rule the Republic of Turkey. Friends, finally, let me tell you this: look, the President had a directive for you, he said to you, learn Ottomanian, Ottomanian. But I don't see any of you working on this except Mr. Doğan Kabbat. The days ahead are short. The election comes, Mr. President invites you to an illegal palace, and if he does an interview on Ottomanian, you'll all fail. I advise you to keep your wits about you. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0497par0348	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0498par0349	Mr. President, a moment ago, the speaker, the speaker, the speaker, the player change, the vice presidents of the group are helpless.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0497par0350	He wants a word out of sarcasm, and he gave his motive. Here you go, Mr. Incescuz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0499par0356	Mr. President and the esteemed MP friends, I've never seen such a pathetic change in the character's speech, and I've never seen the vice presidents of the group so helpless. I've never really described their statements in any way, in any way, in the presence of this Assembly, in any way, in their kindness, if they call it that, there's nothing they can say to themselves. But if he thinks that underestimating someone, underestimating this group, underestimating lawmakers, underestimating the members of the group, is going to bring weight to his own words, I want to say that he is deeply mistaken. This weight can't be gained that way. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Other than that, perhaps the following speakers will take the stand to use similar statements, and will be critical of what our President has said. For him, the description of these words here, in particular, is actually an expression of how light, unqualified, how much he ignores the impacts of the entire past. (ARK PARTY CLATTERING, CHATTERING) So we strongly rejected those words... We're objecting here: Look, open the 19th article of the Constitution, read it, if there is a violation of rights here, yes, it is true, a decision can be made here, but I think it should be considered that there is a coup made here by the Constitutional Court, before the 26th Article of the Constitution is exhausted, without trial, 26 and 28th Amendment. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0500par0362	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0501par0363	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0500par0364	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0501par0365	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0502par0366	We want the same thing.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0503par0367	Mr. President, the speaker just told me that he's a political quitter...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0504par0368	I'll make a promise to Mr. Special, and I'll make a promise to you. Mr. Special, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0505par0370	Mr. President, the esteemed member of the group, in our friend's speech...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0504par0371	First, would you please ask the friends in your group to shut up and calm down?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0505par0372	Guys, let's keep it down.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0504par0373	This is your group vice president speaking. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0505par0375	The deputy chairman of the group said that some of the statements used by our orator on the stand were an insult to their group; you gave them an answer, he used it, but when he used it, he used it to give our group and our fellow speaker a hard-on.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0506par0376	What's heavy here?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0505par0377	We'd like to use the same amount of answers.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0507par0378	What were their motives? What did he say to your group?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0505par0379	Like do not underestimate the attacks, to understand the sufferings, to not feel them.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0508par0380	That's right!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0505par0381	... willnotcompatible with the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0509par0383	Guys, wait a minute, can you stop?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0505par0384	Guys, I'm sorry. I mean, I really think that some of you...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0509par0385	Mr. Special, can you talk to me, please?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0505par0386	Okay. I did, sir; that's my motive.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0509par0387	You'll take the word?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0505par0388	I want a promise.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0509par0389	Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0505par0391	Thank you. Dear friends, first and foremost, let's say that every orator and every member of the Republican People's Party Group treats other party groups with respect to the regulations of those parties, to the members of the group who represent them. In this regard, if there has been a flaw in the expression used, the responsibility belongs to my person, and let me make it very clear from here.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0510par0394	He's sorry, he's sorry!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0505par0395	However, it is necessary to think a little bit about what the statements used on the stand, the criticisms, are not directly dealing with the person, but what those expressions mean. It's said that you're under such a heavy burden... that it says.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0511par0396	What's it to you? What's it to you? What do you care about our burden?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0512par0399	It doesn't describe your weakness, your weakness, when you say it; it never does. The weight of the load comes from the size of the defect on another side. There's a president who's supposed to be neutral, who's going to get the highest level of respect from us in the first place, who's sworn honor and honor in this matter...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0511par0400	No one wants your respect. Just don't be disrespectful.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0513par0401	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0512par0402	...before going out of the country, I'm going to go, it's going to be a bit of a mix-up here. Look, Congress is involved.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0511par0403	You're messing with it, you!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0512par0404	Just a moment ago, Mr. Baluken's questions, our questions, what will happen tomorrow in Turkey... what will be involved in Turkey? And we say in particular: A president who has taken an oath of neutrality, who abuses his own authority, his own authority, the respect to which he needs to be heard, everything that the presidency has given to both its own person and that office has held all the weight that it must bear since the founding of the republic, and he says: I don't know the Constitutional Court's decision, and I won't obey it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0514par0405	Your disrespect for the President is disrespectful to the nation.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0511par0406	No, we don't. We don't know each other.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0512par0407	Not knowing the Constitutional Court is not knowing the Constitutional Court directly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0511par0408	It's what he says, brother! Whatever he says, we're right behind him.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0515par0409	Dear Metiner, please...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0512par0410	He has no testimony. He has no power over us. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0515par0413	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0516par0414	It takes a level to respect him, too, level. It takes a level of respect.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0517par0415	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0515par0416	Mr. Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh has also asked for a word because of the bullying.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0518par0417	Sir, he said it was a political turncoat, so...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0515par0418	Yes, because he called it a political turncoat. Two minutes, I promise you. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0519par0423	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Tanju Özcan Bey...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0520par0425	Tanju, Tanju, the contractor!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0521par0426	Dear Metiner...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0519par0427	First of all, I'd like to say that I think it's odd that a Republican People's Party MP is not an important institution of Ataturk Culture, Language and History, and that he doesn't think it's enough to be tied to a minister. Two: Mr. Tanju Özcan said very nice things about my father, thank God, but his father was very hard on the deceased before him. So only Tanju Bey's children will understand what I'm doing politically today. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Finally, the first President of the Turkish Language Foundation is Samih Rif., Agop Dilaçar is the first Secretary General and has never been President. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0522par0433	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0523par0434	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0524par0436	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0522par0437	I'll promise you when there's silence, Mr. Baluken. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0524par0439	Mr. President, speaking on behalf of the AKP Group, Mr. Group Vice President, I don't know how much those who call this decision a coup don't care about the coups...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0525par0440	Taking it easy and ignoring the pain.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0524par0441	...and he made it clear to our group, who described it as a coup by expressing how indifferent he was to the suffering of that period.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0526par0442	Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0527par0443	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0526par0444	Mr. Ozcan, I'll listen to you later. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0528par0447	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. In fact, we asked for an explanation before the session was closed, but there's still no word from the members of the group. So you need to make some statements to inform the General Assembly, to inform us of the statements he made when defending the President in such a fiery manner. Now that I'm leaving, what does Turkey mean, it's going to get messy, it's going to get messy?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0529par0450	Don't you get it? That's what he means!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0530par0451	Keep wondering!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0528par0452	So what's the point? What's going to happen for a week?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0531par0453	Don't you get it?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0528par0454	Will people die or will there be a coup? Is the government going to fall? What does it mean to shake things up?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0532par0455	The fitters will continue to create sedition!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0528par0456	Look, we've been saying there's been a palace coup all along. As of June 7th, thousands of people died after the coup against the will of the people. In other words, more than 500 civilians have lost their lives in the area of curfew alone.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0533par0457	They're terrorists.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0534par0458	Terrorist...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0528par0459	Thousands of people died from conflicting processes. Don't you see all this as a pain? Turkey has returned to a condolence home. I mean, it's not that there's something going on with that process that's costing people, causing them to die, causing them to suffer so much pain, it's happening, it's happening every day. Therefore, we absolutely deny these sentences you used. There's been a palace coup. The war is not a war of the country, but a battle of the palace. In this palace war, the children of the people lose their lives, and the poor children of Anatolia lose their lives. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, Reza Zarrab bought a new villa of 7.5 trillions, 7.5 trillions, but look at the homes of soldiers who lost their lives in the palace war! You send these people's children to their death, the Reza Zarrabs live in luxury. Your children, the rich children, the Minister's children...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0535par0464	Tell the bomber who sent it!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0528par0465	We're saying it all.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0536par0466	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0528par0467	They're all poor folk children...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0536par0469	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0537par0470	Tell the bomber who sent it!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0528par0471	Where are your children, the children of Reza Zarrab? So we will continue to oppose this palace war, the coup d'état.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0536par0473	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0538par0474	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0539par0475	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0536par0476	Just a minute... I'll listen to Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0540par0477	To hell with the PKK!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0541par0478	Whoever caused these deaths, God damn him.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0542par0479	God damn it, whoever caused these deaths! Shame, look, are you embarrassed looking at that picture?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0541par0480	Whoever he is, God damn him.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0542par0481	Look, look at the palace, look at this! Shame, shame! Send your own children.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0543par0482	It's a shame, it's a shame, it's a shame, it's a shame, you guys! I mean, it's a real shame, you're a pain in the ass.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0541par0483	It's coming from there, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0542par0484	If you're very brave, go ahead. You'll send your children to their deaths and be a hero here!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0543par0485	We're congressmen and we're in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Ozcan, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0544par0487	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has taken the liberty of taking the words I never said, as if I had said them. For example, I said the institution was a mere institution, and I never said that. He said different things about my father, about my father's political stance. In the end, I am Agop Dilaçar..
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0543par0488	No, no... he didn't say anything about your father.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0544par0489	Sir, if you don't mind, Mr. Agop said that I didn't know about this, that he was the president, that I didn't tell him that he was the head of the institution.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0543par0490	He didn't tell you that.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0544par0491	He told me, sir. Because of the bullying...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0543par0492	He didn't tell you that. Nothing Mr. Turkesh said was true to you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0544par0493	Sir, he mentioned my name over and over again.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0543par0494	Come, talk for two minutes, come, come!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0544par0495	I mean... but don't pretend to be gracious.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0543par0496	Come, speak without teasing, come!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0544par0498	Mr. President, first of all, I condemn your attitude, so as a courtesy, that's not going to happen.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0543par0499	All right, I'll take that too, come on!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0544par0500	It's a tease.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0543par0501	Okay, I'll take it, okay.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0544par0502	Please... from now on, I invite you to a more impartial administration.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0543par0503	Okay. Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0544par0505	Dear lawmakers, I didn't say that the order is irrelevant. I said that the person the group is bound to is a mere man in our eyes. That's what I said, there's no need to turn it around.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0545par0507	Whatever you say, we're going to look at the eye of the people!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0544par0508	Second, he made a good point about my father, it's true.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0546par0509	People don't matter, people, people don't matter in your eyes!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0544par0510	My father's life has been a political struggle with your late father, your father's political understanding, and that's true.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0546par0511	What's the point of your evil eye?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0544par0512	But my father never said anything about the late Turkesh, who was politically opposed to him, that he always respected the late Turk, because he found at least consistent, and then he knew how to read Fatiha. But you're telling me, Mr. Secretary, that the children of Tanju Bey will understand what I'm trying to do today. I assure you, in thirty years, in twenty years, he will remember you as I addressed you today from the council bench.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0547par0513	Don't try!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0548par0514	Mr. Tanju, that ball went to 90, don't try!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0544par0515	He will say that Tuğrul Bey, son of Rahmetlı Türkesh, was a political defector; he was used by the AKP!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0549par0517	Please, watch your language. Use a clean language and don't mess with the character!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0544par0518	It was used by the AKP, and it was placed in the corner when the time was right and when its time was up.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0549par0520	Mr. Özcan, don't bother with the character, please!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0550par0521	You're a very disrespectful man!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0551par0522	Sorry, sorry, sorry!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0552par0523	Mr. President, take it back!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0551par0524	Sorry, sorry!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0553par0525	I'm sad, I'm really sad. I can't bear to see the son of the late Turkesh, whom I've never embraced in terms of his political understanding, be so incoherent, sell his case, his ideology for a dry seat.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0554par0527	Let him take it back, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0555par0528	Mr. Ozcan, it's a shame, really! You're dealing with privacy!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0556par0529	Sorry! Sorry!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0557par0530	I really blame him. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0558par0533	Mr. President, apologize!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0559par0534	Mr. President, make a statement, apologize!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0560par0535	Where the word ends, you start dealing with the person. Really, we're being insulted by unbecoming words and personal insults. These are the things you're saying from this stand, really, that our children will have a document tomorrow, so let's be careful with that, and let's use this bench, please... We all read the transcripts of the past, is there a language like that, is there a language like that in the past?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0561par0538	And what you say will pass. Come on, talk for two minutes. Is there a Speaker?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0560par0539	He's an example to all of us.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0561par0540	Read what you're saying.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0562par0541	You read it, you conduct it objectively.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0560par0542	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0563par0543	Mr. President, just now, in the speech of the HDP group's deputy president...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0560par0544	I don't hear anything you're saying; get in your seat, I'll turn on your microphone. Really, we need to read past minutes in our spare time.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0564par0546	Read, too, and see what it means to rule without prejudice.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0560par0547	Here you go. What is your request?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0565par0551	Mr. President, I wanted to talk to you about bullying, but I can answer with a few words from my position. First of all, to all of our friends in Parliament: indeed, we are in a very intense effort here to spend the budget that our nation has been waiting for. At times, of course, there will be warm moments, tensions will rise, but regardless -- the greatest capital of a politician, words -- I want to make it very clear that the use of words to be so cruel, so humbling, and insulting to each other is not appropriate for any parliamentary speakers in Congress, on the nation's stand.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0566par0553	Remind me of the words of Loved Mahzuni, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0565par0554	I agree with what you just said. If we run out of material, we can only see individuals being dealt with. Today, when we look at the words spoken on this bench, we see how much the material is missing, how much it's diminished, how much it's gone, and there's no material left but to deal with the President himself, which is to be spoken of, which is to present the person who stands on every stand.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0567par0555	Who's dealing with him?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0568par0556	We're not dealing with him, we're dealing with the law.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0567par0557	We're working on his explanations.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0568par0558	We don't care about him!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0569par0559	Look, I'd especially like to say that you may be critical of our President, but I don't find it right to use insulting, insubstantial statements when you criticize him. Of course, we can be criticized, we can all be criticized, but I think that it's not appropriate for our parliamentary, parliamentary friend to make offensive statements by crossing the lines of criticism, by overstepping the lines of criticism, especially with the words, actions, and actions of our fellow members of the group. I don't think I've ever really described the humiliating, humiliating expressions of the previous character in the form of "bastards" and so on. We're talking about a man who's taken 52 percent of the vote from our president, our people, our nation. The head of the Republic, the head of the nation, the state. The words spoken to him include insults to our nation, who actually supported him.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0570par0561	Pick it up, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0569par0562	If we all stop fighting the nation in this sense, I want you to know that we will do much better in this Parliament and we will act in accordance with the Parliament's terms. I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0570par0565	Thank you. Congressmans, we really need to think about the way he's doing politics, the way he's being insulting, the way he's dealing with personality. It doesn't matter which party you belong to here, it doesn't matter that I'm the manager here; I think that we all, as individuals, as MPs, should have a little control over our language, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0571par0567	And the President should watch his tongue.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0570par0568	He's getting into it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0572par0569	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0570par0570	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0572par0571	Mr. President, the deputy leader of the group has stated that other oratories in particular are interested in the President's personality and have said insults about it. I'd like to make a statement about him either from the stand or from my position.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0570par0572	He gave a very good speech, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0573par0573	That's what you think.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0574par0574	I swear to God, I never got around to picking on you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0575par0575	We didn't do that.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0576par0576	Sir?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0575par0577	We have not insulted the President's character here.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0576par0578	He didn't say anything about you anyway.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0575par0579	But he left us under suspicion.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0576par0580	Okay, fine. Now, Mr. Baluken, you say you haven't insulted the President's character at all.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0575par0582	We need an explanation, yes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0576par0583	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0575par0584	No, no, I need to make a statement, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0576par0585	Okay, here you go. Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0575par0588	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, for the record, we have to express these. Mr. Group Vice President has stated that we are dealing with the President's character. There's absolutely no such thing.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0577par0590	What happened to Metiners?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0578par0591	Brother, God bless you!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0579par0593	Yeah, well, don't say anything, he's nervous. Okay... okay...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0578par0594	It was a law between us, none of your business.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0580par0595	Are you gonna scare me when I yell?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0578par0596	What a scare!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0580par0597	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0578par0598	We're talking to Attila Bey.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0581par0599	We bring heavy political criticism of Mr. President's involvement in justice, politics, Parliament. We're expressing our party's views on the applications he put in place. Just now, here, on the stand, while I was speaking... [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] I'll wait if you want.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0582par0602	I'm not taking a break to document it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0583par0603	Yeah, well, don't make him nervous for nothing.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0584par0604	Yes, this is what must be documented: May God set you right." Mehmet Metiner has come to file the report.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0582par0605	I can see better from here, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0585par0607	We've been robbed of our right to speak!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0586par0608	If there's no pause here, where's the break?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0582par0609	Congressmans, please take your seats. [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Congressmans, please take your seats.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0587par0612	Mr. President, there's a fight, won't you take a break? Some want to follow the president's instructions.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0582par0613	I wonder where the managers are.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0588par0614	Mr. President, right now, take a break from the noise.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0587par0615	Take a break, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit06spe0582par0616	I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0582par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 47th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks with the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission is in place. The government is in place. As the final speaker...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0589par0006	Mr. President, I had a request, it was interrupted.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0582par0007	I'll give you a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0589par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. I asked for your word before taking a break from that session. Speaking on behalf of the AKP, the deputy leader said we were insulting the President's personality by referring to us as well. We stand by every word we say. No insult to the president's character has come out of our mouth, but we're bringing heavy political criticism from here about the issues outside the President's own authority and the practical practices. Our wish is that he himself does not interfere in these areas. As I spoke from the stand, I struggled with Reza Zarrab's personality. I told him that he had bought a new villa of 7.5 trillion, but the poor people's children continued to die. Also, AKP members of the group need to know that we, according to the President's statements, do not have to make statements. So, just now, I asked Mr. Bulent Turan....to refer to his statement here, on the first day, to his satisfaction with the evacuation of Erdem Gül and Can Dündar....but after the President's statement, I also asked him why he considered it a right of rights......and why he did it. Our posture is clear. We have nothing to do with personality. We'll continue to criticize what we see politically wrong. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0590par0016	Thank you. Now, the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0591par0018	Mr. President, we have a request, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0592par0019	Mr. President, I'd like to make a small statement, if I may, regarding the accusation of the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0590par0020	Free Private, please. Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0593par0023	Mr. President, thank you. So if you want a minute to make a promise, she's fine. But if you're limiting time to a minute, that's not something we can accept.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0590par0025	No, I'm giving him a minute because I gave Mr. Baluken a minute. Please, understand. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0593par0027	Mr. President, I'd especially like to say that if there are no government members in the courtroom during the bullying of the government, then we can assume that the Justice and Development Party has a say in its capacity as members of its parties. But, such as budget talks, where government representatives, such as law talks, have been criticised by the leaders of the group, especially when they are promised directly to representatives of the ruling party group, who are required to be impartial by the Constitution, in fact, under the roof of the Supreme Assembly, which means a violation of the Constitution by mutual and by your consent. After this -- we've applied the same to Ahmet Bey before -- if there is such a thing, we have a say in the ruling party group, which we think should be neutral, because the other groups are taunting the President. But it will be used against the President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0594par0029	You're already making the insult, who's going to answer? The President is not here, who will answer?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0595par0030	I'm listening. Go ahead, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0594par0031	What kind of a thing is that? That doesn't make any sense.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0596par0032	Logic, of course.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0594par0033	It doesn't make any sense. That doesn't make sense.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0597par0034	Dear Crazy Eyes, please... Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0598par0036	We want to make it very clear that the President is neutral according to the Constitution. Aside from the violations he commits every day, but the fact that the ruling party group's demand for a direct and natural word against this criticism is met means that both the ruling party and you, if we remain silent, we will share in this violation of the Constitution. Therefore, I think that we should all renegotiate your attitude in this matter from now on, with respect.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0597par0039	Thank you. Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0599par0042	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to rephrase the fact that the precious group vice president has repeatedly said, in the hope that this will be the last time. Whatever I said yesterday, I'm saying the same thing today: my posture, my attitude, my position, is clear. I think my legal identity is the exception of a non-arrest trial. I think it's the purity of people. No matter who it is, I always believe they're innocent until the verdict is finalized. And I wouldn't feel bad about anyone getting out of prison. So it's clear what my explanation was after people were released that day. But then I said, the Constitutional Court has ruled against his authority. The local court's decision must be expected. That's what I said. What's so different about that? I'll say the same thing again: the allegations about Can Dündar are very grave. Espionage is a crime all over the world. I thought these grave allegations should be settled by the court of law immediately. The Constitutional Court's decision is not a fundamental decision. It's the criminal court that's going to make that decision. It's the judges of the criminal court. I said, let's wait for it. Based on this claim, I made it clear that the government's weariness was not right. I'm saying the same thing again. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0600par0047	Congressmans, I'd like to say something. I gave myself a minute. Of course, the criticism made on behalf of the government, as Mr. Special said, may be at the point of defence for the members of an AK PARTY group deputy. Yes, the President's neutrality is also at stake. However, it is important to remember that when the president is subjected to any criticism or insult in any way, the EC PARTY has the right to speak because it is the founder's president.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0601par0049	There's no such thing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0602par0050	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0600par0051	My interpretation, my friend, let me finish. In addition, there is no law in any document that states that the Justice and Development Party must and must be impartial against the President. That's the way I see it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0603par0054	Sir, the President of all Turkey after he was elected.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0604par0055	After he's elected, he has to be independent.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0603par0056	He's supposed to be President of all Turkey, after he's been elected. 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board Final Account for Central Management 2014 THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2016 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2014 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Presidency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2014 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2014 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2016 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2014 "I") "Turkish History Building" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Historical Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Administration Final Account for 2014
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0605par0100	Now, the last speaker of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Bkent Öz of Çanakkale. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0606par0104	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of 2016 of the Turkish Historical Institution established under the direction of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I salute your high council. Honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, mentioned in the Commission the Turkish Historical Institution's Design Project for Historical Turkish Arts abroad in 2015. There was a fortress built by the Ottomans in order to protect the Kaaba. The castle of Ecyad was falling. Turkey had raised the world. On November 3, 2002, the AKP came to power, and on November 28, 2002, King Ecjad of Saudis laid the foundation for the buildings to be replaced by the fortress of Ecyad. Now in Turkey, the King had friends, but unfortunately those friendships did not prevent the destruction of Eciad Castle. Now, the Saudi planes are in our skies. From the journey that began to protect the Kaaba, the point where we came to protect our borders is exemplary. Friends, if it is within our borders, the restoration of Çanakkale Kükbahir Castle has not been completed for nearly five years. Of course, the Ministry of Culture is running this project, but in terms of its importance in our history, the institution must support such projects. Deliable lawmakers are said to have planned a scholarship for 115 people in 2015 and another 60 in 2016. The agency's budget is estimated at $10,33,000, Mr. Secretary. Friends, what is the financial structure of the institution? In the Court reports of 2014, the budget revenues of 127m, 515,000 Turkish liras are all made up of shared incomes, deposit interest revenues, broadcasts, sales and other revenues from Business Bank stocks. The agency's net income in 2014 was reported at 153m 489,000 TL, 2014 active total of 900,544,000 TL. This institution is not a commercial institution, it cannot serve Turkish history and culture by securing deposits in banks and gaining interest revenues. Although almost all of their incomes have been obtained by the Business Bank, how much of the institution's money is valued at the Bank of Business, which is a separate issue of discussion. Dear lawmakers, for the first time in the E Cetveli of the 2013 Budget Law, the institution has been authorized to spend out of budget, out of control via private account. The non-profits have a start-up grant of $2,000, which has been added to the grant of $13m, and are all spent. The view is the same in his final account in 2014. The start-up grant is worth a thousand euros, plus 40 million euros. The institution's expenditures, except for these 40 million, are 21 million and 260,000 TL. This is money transferred to non-profit organizations. Who are these organizations, and we expect you to explain it. Why is special account needed for such expenditures within the institution's budget and accounting system? From the Turkish Foundation for Education to date, 223,600 students are granted a scholarship to about 1,000 students each year. Not 115 students, but 1,000-2 per year, with the Turkish Historical Foundation's budget. Shouldn't he give a scholarship to 5,000 students? The institution must contribute more to the development of generations of young republic's founding philosophy, who know its history, its culture, its enlightenment revolution in 1923 and the virtues of the republic. Friends, the Institution was founded by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of the Republic of Turkey as the Turkish Historical Study Society. Its autonomy has been damaged and its scientific structure degenerated by the September 12th fascist coup by imperialism with military collaborators. Precious lawmakers say that research and spread of Turkish and Turkish history with a modern understanding of social science on the institution's website is to support research and improve the awareness of history in the community. But the institutions that we're talking about today are not, unfortunately, the institutions that Ataturk had special importance to preserve Turkish history and culture in his will. Every chance we get, we save the country from military custody, we become civilians. Those who say that today sit on the coup laws of September 12th fascism and try to rule. Writing history is as important as making history. If he fails to be faithful to the writer, the unchanging truth will be a source of surprise to mankind. Some historians who act on the mission of defeating the Turkish revolution and feed on imperialism to reverse historical facts cannot be allowed to remain silent over the Republic and Ataturk. Did Mustafa Kemal Ataturk think that those who ruled the Republic of Turkey, which he founded, one day, would be an instrument of these lies, that he would be a prisoner of these lies? (Applause from CHP rows) To the appointment of those who have ignored Ataturk (Ataturk) from 2002 to today, to the institution's appointment, to the lies repeated by members of the institution's authority, it is also thought to be silent by the Turkish Institute of History. I say it is his debt to his founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who is supported by imperialists who know that Ataturk had to break the spirit of independence and the ideal of modernization, to sign the papers that would nullify the lies attributed to the republican era against the systematically sustained history writers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It says we will vote against this budget, and I respectfully salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0607par0116	Thank you, Mr. Oz. That concludes the Republican People's Party group talks. Now, I'd like to report to the speech department...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0608par0119	Mr. President, may I have a word?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0607par0120	Here you go, Mr. Akçay. I don't think you guys just spoke, so I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0608par0122	Thank you. Not for him, Mr. President, but for Mr. President, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. President has no obligation to be neutral.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0607par0124	No, I didn't say that, I said that to the president of the group.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0608par0125	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0607par0127	You're welcome. Thank you. Well, now we're here to talk on behalf of the individuals. The first member of parliament to speak on behalf of him, Kırşehir MP Salih Çetinkaya. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0609par0134	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in favor of the central management budget of 2016. I salute your high council. Dear friends, Congressmans, we've all been in the November 1st election together. In the November 1st election, the EC PARTY came to parliament with confidence. In all of our seven geographical regions, we're conducting the 14th budget talks by our AK PARTY, which is the 1st of our 740 districts in our 81 cities, in our 970 counties, in our 290 districts, and in the 14th budget talks by the AK PARTI governments. We would like to point out that we will continue to use the authority we have received from the nation in favor of the nation. I wish the budget would be the cause of our development, our unity and our resilience, and I wish it all the best. I pray my Lord to bless the budget that we have started in Bismillah. Dear friends, members of lawmakers, this budget has a commitment. Of course, when I became a Kırşehir MP, I thought it was best not to speak of the commonwealth, not to mention the Ahi Evran Veli. As our Prime Minister and President-General has repeatedly pointed out, the constitution is the whole of our past and living values, which, in fact, everyone must abide by, will be the solution to our problems if they are followed, the solution to many issues, the root of them, the sum of our past and living values. Born in Kırhirşehir, it cost the whole world. We continue to work with a understanding that is loyal in his covenant, in his word, in love, in his heart, in his heart, in his eyes, in his heart, and in humility, in pride, who does good to all, who do good to all, who do good to all, who do good to all, who do good to all, who do good to all, who do good to all; who do justice, to the extent of justice; who do good to the heart, to the heart, and to the heart of all that is created, who seek faults and faults for themselves, who are not afraid to speak the truth, and who are not afraid to speak the truth. On this occasion, I remember Ahi Evran Veli, with mercy and gratitude. Yes, lawmakers, after the June 7th elections, in the process until November 1st, we did self-criticism, conscience accounting. If there's a compromise, if there's an Ahi Evran, there's nothing that can't be solved. Mr. President, I'm going to make a point during the budget negotiations. We, elected by the people's vote, are responsible for this holy nation. In the work and actions of lawmakers, the Constitution must act in accordance with the law, at least to abide by its oath. Going to terrorist funerals, performing sensory operations to justify terrorism, offends the conscience of our nation and the memory of our martyrs. What kind of business is that? What conscience would that fit in? Everywhere we go, our nation's demand is clear and clear. Anyone who supports terror and terrorist should answer in front of the law. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There are critics of the Prime Ministerial Generality, and I find that very offensive. What law-abiding, government-bound officer would hesitate to make such a statement, dear friends? Everybody's got to back it up. If you're doing the right thing, you shouldn't be bothered by this kind of generalization.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0610par0143	On February 28th, there were those phrases.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0609par0144	Yes, we're the ones who resist February 28th, we're the ones who stand up, Precious Baluken.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0611par0146	You took off a shirt, a shirt.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0609par0147	It is Recep Tayyip Erdogan who stands upright, and Necmettin Erbakan.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0611par0148	You changed shirts, you changed shirts.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0609par0149	We didn't change shirts.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0612par0150	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0613par0151	You have changed shirts, and sold Erbakan.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0609par0152	We never changed shirts.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0614par0153	Your founding president's statement changed shirts.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0615par0154	Please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0609par0155	Finally, I want to say, in the words of Jonah.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0614par0156	He said we took off the shirt.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0616par0157	You have no right to speak of Erbakan.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0609par0158	Look, dear friends, I speak to you in the words of Jonah: if you are right, there is no righteousness, if you are crooked. Dear friends, crooked people don't do the right thing.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0617par0161	That's why it's not happening!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0618par0162	Yeah, you're right!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0609par0163	The crooked people don't do the right thing. Your words will be true, and you will stand firm, and you will stand firm.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0617par0164	That's what he did when he left, that's what he did when he left.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0619par0165	Stands in the right place, finds the crooked plague.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0620par0166	He'll find the crooked mess.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0621par0167	We are proud of our President, proud of our Prime Minister. It was their birthday, too, recently.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0622par0169	Well done!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0621par0170	I'm glad you're here, Erdogan. I'm glad you're here, Davutoglu.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0623par0172	Thank you, Mr. Cetinkaya.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0624par0173	You're going to court with 2,023 children, your president.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0621par0174	With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the entire General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0625par0177	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0626par0178	With 2,023 children to celebrate his birthday at the palace.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0627par0179	May Allah not make any politician feel such need.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0625par0180	Congressmans, we now come to the department of speeches on behalf of the government. On behalf of the government, the first speaker will be Deputy Prime Minister Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh. Your time is 20 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0628par0185	Mr. President, honored members, I salute your grand delegation on the occasion of the discussion of the Financial Year Budget Bills of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute and institutions within it. As it is known, Ataturk is a constitutional institution consisting of the Ataturk Research Centre, the Turkish Language Foundation, the Turkish Historical Institute and the Ataturk Cultural Centre, and is continuing its work on the mission of doing and doing original scientific research on Turkish language, history and culture and its work on Ataturk and its work. [[Noises]] There's people out there who don't know, so that's why I'm saying it. Dear members, I'd like to tell you about some of the activities of the High Institution and other institutions and some of the projects it plans to carry out with its 2016 budget.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0629par0190	Mr. Secretary, we can't hear anything, we can't understand anything, we can't hear anything.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0630par0191	Mr. Secretary, would you excuse me for a moment, please? Mr. Secretary, yes, because there's a lot of noise in the hall and there's a hum. Please treat the speaker with respect and be sensitive to the Minister's speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0631par0194	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0632par0195	A little louder, Mr. Secretary, a little more energy.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0631par0196	Integrated Information System: The Integrated Information System, which aims to provide faster and safer access to information, block repeat data inputs, integration of institutional processing processes into IT infrastructure and the ability to operate all institutional applications from one point, was used in 2013 through the Computed Information System, the Higher Institutional Information infrastructure. As in 2015, new modules will be added in 2016 and the functionality of the system will be increased. The Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History, a scholarship system that allowed scholarship students from our institutions to contribute to scientific research and development activities and co-ordinatorships by the Android and IOS systems, which were developed by the Turkish Language Foundation in 2015, to serve larger populations, and also to develop research on a common platform of scholars working in social and human sciences, and to contribute to the development of scientific research and development activities of students who have been working in the field of social and human sciences, and have been able to co-ordinating and co-ordinating scholarships from our institutions. The convention carried out on Ataturk and its work, with all aspects of Turkish language, history, culture and all aspects of the High Institution, contributes to the implementation of seminars, symposiums, conferences and other national and international activities, and co-ordinating activities. Scholarship activities: Institutions within the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History provide scholarships for graduates and doctoral students and post-doctoral researchers who are trained in matters of purpose and principles. In 2015, a total of 319 scholarships were granted, including 130 licenses, 93 Masters, 89 Ph.D.s and 7 Ph.D.s. A total of 272 scholarships, including 130 licenses, 91 master's, 41 Ph.D.s and 10 post-doc scholarships, are planned to be supported in 2016. Scientific meetings: Our High Institution-based institutions conduct events such as conferences, feasts of information abroad, interviews, study, congress, convention, support and participation in matters that are appropriate for their purposes and goals. In 2015, 88 national and international scientific events were organised, supported, and participated. The activities carried out by the High Institution and its institutions in 2015 focused on co-operation with universities and newly established universities in primary areas, and will continue to be considered important in 2016. A total of 35 national and international scientific events are planned in 2016 and support and participation in various events. Books and long - term publications: Our High Institutional institutions provide the benefit of society by preparing books and long - term publications to publish research on purposes and goals. In 2015, a total of 164 publications, including 142 new books and 22 continuous publications, will continue to be published in 2016. Our free publications: free broadcasts are distributed to people from the institutions of the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History, to universities abroad, public libraries, public institutions and institutional libraries. In 2015, a total of 105,276 works were distributed to universities, libraries, and public institutions abroad and abroad for free of charge of 23,488 broadcasts. Free art will continue to be distributed in 2016. Librarian activities: In 2016 the institution's residency libraries will be enriched through donation, purchase and resource exchange. The Project for Gendering Basic Arts in Turkish Languages: It aims to contribute to the work in these areas and to the broader readership of artifacts published abroad in the field of Turkish science, as well as to the translation of major works in languages, language relations, literature, public science. Eight works have been published so far, and the translation of 17 articles has been completed and the translation of 18 works and 43 articles continues. The Origin Information of Turkey (Ethmology) Dictionary Project: it aims to investigate the original knowledge of Turkish words in its current vocabulary. As part of the project, the origins of the words are aimed at illustrating the origins of the fundamental word by running with the same elements that show the same improvements, reaching out to the shapes of the words in the earliest sources, the changes they've made throughout history, if they exist in the languages in which they've been associated. The Turkish Language Foundation's Project to Translate Basic Thoughts, Sciences and Arts to Turkish: There are many well-known foreign languages published abroad in science, art and culture, as well as many other less-known foreign languages. It is intended that the basics of various world languages be translated into Turkish and presented to society, and that the known be known and then the unknown be set up as a product of thought. With the Turkish Historical Institution's Library and Archive Materalization Project, 1,257 rare artifacts that were digitized in 2013 were enabled to be seen and downloaded via the Library Programme and opened digital copies of 1,089 rare artifacts in 2015. As a result of this service, researchers will be able to provide remote access to digital copies of these artifacts, where the use of them will be widespread and preventing the destruction of rare artifacts, allowing the originals to be transferred to future generations. In 2015, the library logbook from 1931 to 1999 was transferred to the Library Program, which had not been found in the Library Programme. A study of the records of all available literature in the library collection continues to process bibliographical recording correction, matching, material upgrades. As part of the Turkish Historical Institution's Project on the Restoration and Preservation of Handwriting existing in the Library, in 2016 it is intended to restore artifacts from the past to today and transfer cultural and art heritage to future generations. The role of Croatia in the Austrian-Habsburg Border Fight will continue in 2016, with the assessment of the Unpublished Hellence Scrolls found in Phaselis, RTI Method, and the Projects for Cultural Inventory of Batman Ili Hasankeyf County. The Tespiti Project of Turkish Historical Artifices abroad: It is a project conducted during the vast history and space of Ottomans, each one of which is part of the common cultural heritage of humanity, each one of which is part of the common cultural heritage of humanity, in order to build inventory, to build restoration projects, to help promote and promote Turkish culture through a database of studies. Ataturk Research Centre is my greatest work by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who led the establishment of the Republic of Turkey and its arrival to this day. The International Ataturk Congress has been held. The Ataturk Cultural Centre used the technique of cinema, one of the greatest discoveries of our time to pass our culture on to young generations, so that our cultural assets could be introduced to generations, Turkish citizens and foreigners and adopted and produced under the main title of Turkish culture, Turkish Wrestling and Traditional Public Games documentaries, as well as the Anatolian Grand Mosques album and promotion film. Excavation and surface research: Archaeologists who seek to support scientific studies by gathering documents and materials that would help illuminate Turkish history and Turkey's history are provided financially by the Turkish Historical Institution. In 2015, 26 excavations and surface research were funded by 241,765 liras. In 2016, 65 excavations and surface research are planned to be funded. New housing construction: The project, which has 48,725 square metres of closed space for construction of the settlement, has been included in the 2015 investment programme and will be given a final allocation of the move after construction of the facility building. He was granted a construction permit from the prime minister's office and has been tendered for a free project and has been handed over to the institution by the project contractor. The work is under way to begin the construction of the compound as soon as possible. On November 10, the memorial service of Ataturk was held at the Ankara Chamber of Commerce Congresium, marking the 77th anniversary of the departure of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our Republic. Yes, in short, I have provided information on the issues of our institutions. I've got a few minutes, and if you'll excuse me, I have a few questions that my very dear congressman friends have been asking me about, and I'll give them an answer. When I looked at Burcu Koksal Ma'am's speech, she claimed that we were running a dairy business, so I asked the head of the agency, there's no dairy business under the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute. So there's no milk, no dairy, and no potato plantations, and I don't know where he got them from, but if he answers us again, we'll get information about him. Our other friend, from the Republican People's Party again, I find it hard to remember his name, he must have never come or gone to the House.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0633par0219	It was the private problems of Afyon, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0634par0220	Yeah, he gave a speech about his own speeches, then about the election district.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0631par0221	I advise him to read the transcripts of his own conversations because he obviously doesn't hear what he's saying.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0633par0222	But did you ask him?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0635par0223	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0631par0224	Oh, now, there's a serious question we found, I'll answer it. Gülsin Bilgehan Ma'am said: "Why was the Ataturk International Peace Prize not given, and is there really no one worthy of reward found?" The legal gap for the Ataturk International Peace Prize has been resolved on 2/11/2011 by the Court of Law No. 664, and the requirements for the award have been set on the basis and conditions for the award. The Article 8 of the Article 8 of the regulation was written (1): There is no reward in the years when there is no candidate worthy of reward. I think it would be better if the matter was handled in this framework, not to be taken into any other dimensions, because we feel it is not right to give it to someone by forcing them to give a peace prize that was given by the name of Ataturk. Again, there was a question, such as why this building of the Ataturk Cultural Centre has not been completed for years. Like this potato plantation, the Prime Ministerate Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History is the full name of four institutions of our Ministry: the Turkish Historical Institution, the Turkish Language Foundation, the Ataturk Cultural Centre, the Ataturk Research Centre. This multi-purpose building you're talking about has nothing to do with our institution. There are many halls in various counties -- unfortunately -- with the same name as our institution. The presidency of the Prime Ministerate Ataturk Cultural Centre is not a hall, but an institution. I offer it with respect.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0636par0228	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0637par0229	Mr. President... You know, my place, I mean...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0636par0230	Here, Mr. Special, are you going to make a statement?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0637par0231	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0636par0232	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0637par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. We've upset you today too, but of course, it's been a very busy day.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0636par0236	I'm fine, I'm fine.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0637par0237	I listened carefully to Mr. Minister's statements, and I thank you for his attention to the Ataturk Cultural Centre, but Burcu Haným said in this regard: Just as we were about to take this matter, while she had received complaints about the Ataturk Cultural Centre in Istanbul, and about her own discomfort, she expressed this opportunity; let us underline this once.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0636par0238	I'm sorry, that wasn't Mrs. Burcu, that was Miss Sibel, that was Sibel Özdemir.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0637par0239	No, Miss Burcu...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0636par0240	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0637par0241	Burcu Haným Sir, the Ataturk Cultural Center, the Minister also remembers, Burcu Koksal.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0636par0242	Did you tell him?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0638par0243	I didn't say it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0636par0244	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0639par0245	And then, the second thing is, of course, budget negotiations aren't just budgets and figures. Budget talks -- like our leaders do -- front money, back promise, but it's all politics. Dear Burcu Koksal also spoke of the problems of his territory - potatoes, beets, and a dairy. Of course, the Minister's job was to go back to the bureaucrats and ask them, "Where is our dairy?" Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0636par0248	Thank you, thank you. 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board Final Account for Central Management 2014 THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2016 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2014 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Presidency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2014 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2014 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2016 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2014 "I") "Turkish History Building" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Historical Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Administration Final Account for 2014 Now, on behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Yalçın Akdoğan will make the second speech. Come in, Mr. Secretary, your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0640par0295	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you and your people, our beloved nation. I wish that the budget talks of 2016 would be successful, and I wish that the budget that has been prepared would be good for our country, for our nation, for our institutions and for our institutions. Right at the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank you on behalf of our Finance Ministry, our Plan and Budget Commission, all my fellow ministers, our fellow lawmakers, our bureaucrats and experts, on behalf of my own, my country and my nation. Many of our fellow lawmakers have taken a stand here and contributed to the budget with criticism, comments, warnings and evaluations. I'd like to thank our friends, who have contributed to any party's differences, criticism and evaluations, who have contributed to us with their opinions and enhancement of wealth. Mr. President, I'm here to discuss the budgets of my Ministry's Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Community, the President of the Disaster and Emergency Management, and the General Directorate of the Foundation. Each of these institutions, as in the past, are today Turkey's hundred-white institutions, the pride of our nation. Each of them successfully represents Turkey, both abroad and abroad, giving praise to Turkey's name. The common feature of each of these institutions is that it operates in the areas of public diplomacy, human diplomacy, cultural diplomacy, it has a direct human-oriented mission. These values are called soft strengths, power, or, in English, soft power. Today, our region is teeming with political and economic instability, conflicts, wars, humanitarian crises. What is forgotten in this turmoil is the human being, which means that man is missed, and in fact, there are huge human crises. Turkey gains the respect, love, empathy of the peoples of the region with its conscientious stance during these difficult times of human testing. In this regard, the work done by TİKA, AFAD, the President of Turkish and Relative Communitys abroad and the General Directorate of Foundations is really valuable. Turkey has received praise, respect, and love from many parts of the world thanks to the work done by our institutions. The flag of the Republic of Turkey is seen as a symbol of hope, of conscience, because Turkey has been the voice of the world's only young man, especially with its human diploma over the past few years, when countries that act with wars, persecutions, empirical emotions have been criticised by oppressed peoples; your conscience has been the voice of humanity. And our government takes away its power and its authority from this great nation of ours and its praise, and it fulfills its historical responsibility. Besides, the right to defend the right, the right to cry out, the right to defend the right, to defend the right, despite all criticism, to defend the right, to defend the right, to defend the human dignity and dignity; that is what Turkey's historical responsibility requires, the cultural values, the tolerance, and the sensibility of our beloved nation requires it. There's no way we can stand up to humanity, human dignity, rights, law, conscience because someone's criticizing us. We can't keep quiet when people are being slaughtered next to us, people are starving and thirsty. We can't and won't stand by while the underdogs are knocking on our door. TİKA, AFAD, ATB, Foundations General Directorate is doing a great job in this way, taking on the mission of our long-standing civilization, our historical responsibility. In the process, the developed countries, using economic crises as an excuse to reduce development aid, Turkey shared its bread with wherever there was an underdog, boldly went to places where it could not go, offering its resources to the service of humanity without any distinction. Turkey's official development aid for 85m dollars in 2003 reached $3 billion 591m in 2014. The level of the millennium target, calculated by the dissolution of official development aid, was 1 in a thousand ten years ago and was estimated at 4.5 in a thousand in 2014. The aid to the least developed countries exceeded 1.5 billion dollars. At this rate, Turkey became the first in the world and the third in the world in total. We extend our generous hand of compassion all over the world, consciously, while his neighbor is hungry. Here's TİKA, one of our country's archetype institutions -- our presidency of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency -- which has completed its twenty-fourth year as of 2015. During the 12 years from 2002 to 2015, we raised the number of offices from 12 to 50, the total number of projects and activities from 2,000 to 18,000. TİKA currently operates in more than 150 countries, which means it has offices in 50 countries without offices -- operating in 150 countries. This development was also reflected in the TİKA (TİKA) budget, and in 2002 its initial grant reached about $22m, while in 2015, 221m. We're opening offices, and in Iraq and Croatia, hopefully, we're still working on opening offices. The earliest written sources of Turkish civilization, the Orhun Scrolls of Mongolia, the Wise Tonyukuk Monuments, were protected and built museums. We began to work to find and rebuild the shrine of Sultan Alparslan, the Great Seljukite ruler in the historic city of Merv in Turkmenistan. We have preserved the ruins of the temples, graves, and settlements of the Hun and Skypes, which were discovered by archaeological excavations in Kazakhstan. We've made major investments in education for our relatives in Central Asia and the Balkans and our brothers in fate. In the village of Kocaquk, Macedonia, we have prepared the home of the Memorial House of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic, where his father was born and lived. In Montenegro, we completed the Salimije Mosque and Cultural Centre, the largest Islamic cultural centre of the Adriatic. We help friends and brothers in many areas, such as agriculture, tourism, vocational education, basic education, medicine, finance, law. Education is important. In 2014, 69 school construction, repairs, and 134 school equipment were conducted in all parts of the world. In the same way, between 2011-2014, we built close to 50 percent hospitals, health centers, and repairs and equipment of nearly 110 hospitals and health centers. We've trained about 3,000 medical staff. We've provided 28 ambulances, especially in African countries. So beyond our borders, we have a duty to protect the martyrdom of our martyrs who have fallen to the ground for the safety of this country, this nation. Those martyrs, who are the honor of this nation, are our deeds in that land. We have martyrdoms all over the world. The last time we were martyred was in Myanmar. We were in Serbia recently. Some may now say, "Why do you extend your hand to Serbia? " 30,000 of our soldiers were killed in Serbia. On our visit, I immediately gave instructions here that martyrdom should be done as a tribute to the spiritual memory of our martyrs. When a crisis breaks out around the world, Turkey gets there first with TİKA (TİKA), with AFAD (AFAD) and with our NGOs. We came first to help our Palestinian brothers, who suffered a great loss by the Israeli attacks. We arrived first in West Africa, where the Ebola epidemic swept through. We first reached out to Somalia, who was dying of hunger, famine, drought, plagues, terror and political instability that the world had abandoned to its own destiny. From 2002 to 2013 alone, we opened 1,046 wells, 130 wells in 2014. The hospitals we've built have given thousands of people the opportunity to be treated. We were the first to intervene in the human drama that took place in the Arakan region of Myanmar in Southeast Asia. In Serbia, we donated housing to Serbs and Bosniak families who lost their homes due to forest fire and landslide. We have extended our help again to heal the wounds of areas affected by the flood in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia in 2014. Our other institution, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, deals with the issues of our citizens all over the country. Our citizens who live abroad face a variety of problems, from our children, from foreign enemies to Islamophobia, youth agencies to family reunions and education. We support our citizens abroad in all areas, through financial support programmes and direct activities prepared by the OHR. We run a lot of programs that protect our citizens' identities, their own culture, and make them more active in the countries they live in. Some of these programmes include fighting discrimination, active citizenship and equal participation, justice for everyone, incentive for duality, academic support for education. Our citizens living abroad were having some legal and administrative problems with their transactions in Turkey. And to get past these problems, we've prepared a package with an OHR hand. 6 regulations such as reducing passport allowances from abroad to 100 euros, reducing foreign currency costs from 6,000 euros to 1,000 euros, while citizens living abroad receive a 20% family discount on their travels to Turkey. So whatever we promised before the election, we bring it all to life. You know, in the 2011 parliamentary elections, the turnout was only 5 per cent, 18 per cent in the 2014 presidential election, 37 per cent in the June 7th elections, 45 per cent in the November 1 elections. The OHR has played a really important role in all these activities. The Youth Bridges Program, the Marriageal Chelebi Youth Bridges Program... we can say that 1,500 students participated in these programs in 2015. Foreign citizens were granted research aid scholarships, legal training programmes were organised. There's a lot of programs. I'll just give you the headlines: Academy programs, Bureaucracy Academy... the meeting of the Balkan Lands of Thought Foundations. We've brought together three Balkan countries, Middle East and African think tankes, facing different continents, in Turkey. In order to develop the institutional capacity of those places, the OHR has carried out very important activities. We did the Crimea Tatar History Inventory Project, and on May 18, 1944, the Crimean Tatar Exile oral History Study was completed. The 2014-2015 advanced Turkish education programmes were organised.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0641par0310	Crimea's gone.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0640par0311	Turkey-Lubnan Friendship Bridge, Turkish Presence and Ottoman Heritage Report in Lebanon has been prepared. Currently, under the Turkish scholarships, about 16,000 international students from 153 countries are studying at 105 universities in 55 different cities. In 2015 alone, we received about 155,000 applications from 182 countries, and we scholarship 5,000 of them. Currently, a graduation ceremony was held with the participation of 4,000 international students. I'm moving fast because our other agency is running out of time- (AFAD) Afet and the President of Emergency Management. A number of the right assessments have been made here by our opposition parties -- after the disaster -- is to govern the process, to manage the risk that is more important than managing the crisis. AFAD's recent strategy is actually based on this. AFAD has now left behind disaster management policies that intervene when disaster strikes. We are now implementing the Disaster Risk Management System, which is trying to prevent disasters from happening. We have adopted a new model of damage reduction, preparation, intervention and recovery, called the Integrated Disaster Management System. With this model, we try to minimize disaster damage with pre-fact preparation, planning and risk reductions, education and awareness activities, early warning and uninterrupted communication projects. We prepare our country for the zeroth minute at the time of the disaster; with the participation and support of all our ministries, we have prepared the Turkish disaster plan, and we have completed its plans for a major operation disaster intervention. We've implemented the disaster management and decision support system, we've implemented the electronic distribution system, the local information system, and we've implemented the Event Command System. All of this, really, is very important to minimize the risk of disaster at work. We've launched the Earthquake Early Warning and Predated Damage Project, we've implemented the Uninterrupted and Safe Telecommunication System, we've increased our tent supply, and we've divided Turkey into 15 regions based on disaster, and we've started trying to build 27 logistic centers. In the first 11 months of 2015, we intervened in 1,327 catastrophes and emergencies with 6,721 personnel, saved 9,068 of our citizens alive, God rest their soul, delivering the bodies of 636 of our dead citizens to the authorities. We've prepared the Turkish Disaster Management Framework Document. Integrated disaster mappings are still under way. We've removed the Turkish delegation inventory combined with the Geographic Information System. Now, we're updating Turkey's earthquake map. So with developing technology, with new seismic maps, we continue to work on how to map Turkey's earthquake. We've established the Turkish Earthquake Data Center. As part of the development of national seismic networks, the international project was completed to establish seven deep well seismometer networks to monitor earthquake activity around the sea in the German Yercology Research Centre and East Marmara. The project follows the smallest seismic movements related to the possible Marmara earthquake. Soma survivors were mentioned. In the charity campaign -- I wasn't going to give these numbers -- but because it came up a lot -- 53 million, 153,46,2 cents in support, and they were divided equally to the families. In the Van earthquake, 13 tent cities, 35 container cities, we hosted 200,000 citizens. We have built a total of 25,081 dwellings, including 17.489 dwellings for rights owners and 7.592 housing for those who build their homes in our villages. We've brought drinking water from 47 kilometers away, and we've solved the problem of total drinking water, and the state spends 5.3 quadrillion dollars, $5.3 billion on the construction of Van. Today we can say that we are more prepared for disasters than yesterday. Currently, there are 285,000 Syrian asylum seekers in Turkey, living in 26 temporary shelters in our 10 counties. In all, we can say that about 2.7 million Syrian brothers were invited to Turkey. Of course, right across the border are 10 tent cities, and we can say there are about 120,000 Syrians. Dear friends, in Turkey we have 59,129 Turkmen brothers from Bayır Bucak. All Turkishmen from Syria are 23,704 people. In addition, 9.075 Iraqi Turkmen also reside at AFAD housing centres. In the past, Turkey was the country that was helped, and today it became the country that helped every country in the world. We've given humanitarian aid to 51 countries in disaster and emergencies, sent search and rescue teams. Co-ordinating AFAD has recently built more than 500 domestic and international humanitarian and emergency services. Because of the humanitarian crisis in Iraq, at zero point, over 80,000 food boxes have been sent through the AFAD Humanitarian Aid Center, hundreds of tons of dry food, about 9,000 tents, 354 containers, 25,000 blankets, various sheltering materials, hygiene supplies, baby food, medicine, and medical supplies -- mainly Turkish aid supplies -- to all our brothers, including Ezidi, Kurd, Arab -- and as you know in Northern Iraq. The Turks stay here and the Oppositions stay here and the Arabs stay here. As the conditions of life exposed to the people of Gaza reached the dimension of human crisis, the AFAD moved on. Since 2011, 43.5 tonnes of flour have been helped. I mean, there's a lot of help being done to different countries in the world. With all this, the United Nations is holding a humanitarian summit for the first time in the world in May, following Turkey's first place in humanitarian aid, development aid. In May, I hope, Istanbul will host this summit. The General Directorate of Foundations is doing very important activities. Mosques, mosques, taverns, baths, caravansarays, zonings, constructions, all the artifacts that we have left of our profession, we repair artifacts -- we take care of the foreign and foreign communities. We see all of this as a trust, and we take care of it all. As you know, there are 52,000 institutions within the foundation run by the General Directorate of the Foundations. We try to act in harmony with all of this, in accordance with the spirit of the foundation, in accordance with the purpose of the foundation. The projects of about 4,500 foundations were drawn, and repairs were completed, with the help of our General Directorate of Foundations from 2003-2015, without distinctions between the province and the region. A few examples: In 2015, the Edirne Hasan Sezai Derqa, İstanbul Beşiktaş Küçük Mecidiye Mosque, Edirne Grand Synagogue, Edirne central Kazakker Salih Mascidi, Mus central Grand Mosque, Malatya Arabgir Shakirpaşa Mosque, Adıyaman central Abuzer Gaffari Turbesi, Kopeli Gebze Coban Mustafa Pasha Camisi and Ashliyaş, Mardin Nusaybin Xenel Abidin Mosque and Turbesi, Bolu Fourdivan Central Camisi, Afkara Camisi, Shuh Camisi, Şiharşar Barımazı, Şamanınımazı, Şaşımazımımımı, Osman Bakarımazımımımımı, Osman Bakarı, Osman Bakarımımımı, Osman Bakarımımımımımımımımımımımımı, Akımımımımımımımımımımımı. Hopefully, now, we're going to restore the historical artifacts that the terrorist organization has almost slaughtered, as well as the historical artifacts that were shot down in the region, in the southeast, including the Mosque of the Bullets, whether it's a mosque or a church, as soon as possible, we're going to restore them. Reconstructions of the Lower Norschins and Haphysia Mosques in the centre, which had been completely destroyed in the Van earthquake, have been completed. We're handing out dry food packets of 15 pens to 20,315 needy families in the 81 county center. Every day we give warm food to 2,000 men of Job's image. There's a lot of activity like this. 556 lira a month for the needy, and the Foundations General Directorate gives it to needy families. Student scholarships, first and middle student scholarships... offering 60 lira a month scholarships to 15,000 students. College student, we're giving 5,000 students a scholarship for higher education, 200 liras. All of this, in accordance with the original functions of our institutions, which are the relics of the profession, as a social government, we are helping the poor today, the poor, the strange guru. Health care and so on, they're all actually provided by the government within the system. The General Directorate of Foundations is actually having a hard time, you know, helping out and all that, but despite all that, there's been some activity in these areas that we're talking about. Of course, there's a foundation of foundation, and there's paperwork, and there's archive work going on. The Foundations have the Carpet Museum, the Hat Arts Museum, and there are some studies about them. There's also abroad, so there are artifacts of apocalypse abroad, and we're trying to pay them off. Bosnia and Herzegovina's restoration of Sarajevo's Jesusbey Bath has been completed, and it has been launched. The reconstruction of the Foça Alaca Mosque in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The restoration of the Haydar Kadi Mosque in the Monastery of Macedonia. Restoration of Little Medrese and Eunuch Süleyman Agha Library, located in Kosovo Cakova, continues. Bosnia and Herzegovina is also building student dorms in Sarajevo. Also, environmental regulatory projects related to 5 Ottoman foundation projects are being implemented in Kosovo. Again, projects of 6 foundation mosques in Kosovo are in the process of drawing projects of 3 foundation mosques in Macedonia. The Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus will also have tenders for restoration of the Lefkoşa Pre-Shops Mosque, Cyprus Lefkoşe Selimiye Mosque, Gazimagusa Lala Mustafa Pasha Mosque, Girne Hazretı Ömer Turkesi. I'd like to stress a few issues that have been brought up since I'm running out of time. Dear friends, now some criticisms have come: TİKA has turned her face away from the Turkish world; she is interested in Arabs, she is interested in Africa. This is not the right approach. Now, what I'm about to tell you is what's been done about the Turkish world. But we have to look at it this way: as I just said, we have the apocalyptic community, historical artifacts, whatever there is; it could be in Africa, it could be in the Balkans, it could be anywhere, it could be anywhere in the Caucasus. It doesn't just have to be an apocalyptic relic, it doesn't have to be a Turk, if a victim needs it, so, of course, we're going to extend our hand to a starving child in Somalia, or we're going to be martyrs in Sudan, or Myanmar, and we're going to do it in Serbia. Now it's projects in the Turkish world. Between 1992 and 2002, the project by TİKA (TİKA) to the Turkish world was 2,200; it exceeded 6,500 in our time, and it increased by 3 times. Beyond the ethnic Turkish communities of Macedonia, Kosovo, Romania, Bulgaria and Greece in the Balkans, we have extended our hand to the Harur Turks in Ethiopia, to the Duha Turks and the Hoton Turks who live a thousandkm away from the capital of Mongolia, and to the Turkish communities in Sudan, Libya, Lebanon, Jordan, and Turkey's vision. So, wherever there's a Turk, wherever there's a family, if there's a family, beyond that, if there's a victim, there's TİKA. The Gagavuz Turks, we're implementing educational projects. We offer Turkish classes to the Dobruca Turks, all of their schools, the heir to the Yellow Saltuk. We provided 26m euros for the Kosovo Turks. We provided 180m euros in support for the Balkans and Eastern European Turks. A thousand housing projects for the Crimean Turks have been completed. Water supply projects that brought more than 25,000 people to clean water, 233 projects carried out, $30 million. We've done restorations for the Turkish presence in Crimea, such as the Medrese Chained and Hadji Giray Khan Temple. The common Turks, look, I've been dealing with this for months. The last thing we decided to do was bring about 3,000 Ahıska Turks from the conflict zone in Ukraine to Turkey and live in the Council of Ministers. The first families from Ukraine came, and I went and met them myself. We've placed them in the district of Kurizlü in Erzincan, where we provide for duplex apartments and all kinds of needs. We did a workshop, and all the representatives of the Ahiska Turks from around the world came and thanked Turkey. They're all open. The main thing is that they return to their original territory in Georgia, and for that, our diplomatic efforts continue, but Turkey has about 20,000 Turkish Christians, and we have opened our arms to them. In Turkmenistan, the discovery of the tomb of Sultan Alpine Archlan, the modernization of Baku Türk Anadolu High School in Kırgyzistan, Oz, the construction of 850 Turkish Friendship High School and Policinik; the construction of the Ahska project in Turkey; the protection of Turkish historical relics discovered by archaeological digs; the establishment of press centers at the International Turkish Academy; the construction of Turkish Academy; the modernisation of Baku Türk Anadolu High School; the construction of bone marrow in Uzbekistan; the construction of plastic surgery operations; the construction of Ahskas in Turkey; the Turkish project, which has been established in Kazakhstan; and the construction of Turkish Institute of Technology, the Turkish Museum of Technology; I am reading about the construction of Turkish Artificia, the construction of Turkish Artificia; the Turkish Artificial Artificates; the Turkish Museum; the Turkish Museum; the Turkish Museum of Artifice, the Turkish Museum; the Turkish Museum; the Turkish Museum; the Turkish Museum; the Turkish Museum; the Turkish Museum of Arts, the Turkish Museum; the Turkish Museum. What was done in Kosovo, in Crimea, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the 14 villages of Crimea, in water-supply projects that have brought more than 25,000 people to clean water, in the Crimean Tatar language, in the restoration of national schools, capacity enhancement; Moldova Gökoğuz Area Presidential Committee's renovation of the Idari Building, the restoration of the old people's home, the reconstruction of children's nursery in the village of Köpchak; the education and health support of Harar Turks in Ethiopia. What is it that you're helping out here? We do this as a requirement of a human, conscientious, moral stance, but of course they contribute to Turkey's foreign policy. Look, we're four times higher in exports with Ethiopia alone. Our bilateral relations with all these countries have increased. In international institutions, support for Turkey has increased, and these people against Turkey, the oppressed people, there's a country that will extend its hand when I'm in trouble, and there's a sister community. These are very important. Why don't some countries open offices there? Friends, we can't open the office wherever we want. It's a deal between countries, with those countries agreeing to it. These contacts with some countries continue, and Greece is one of them. If a bilateral agreement can be reached, if Greece accepts the state, the TİKA office can be opened. We brought it up again during the last meeting in Greece. But here, in these countries, where we don't have an office, we do similar activities through the embassy, and we're trying to contribute as much as we can. How many students came from Romania? There are 40 students, 10 of them Turkish royalty.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0642par0344	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0640par0345	I'll take time from our other Minister.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0642par0346	Oh, yeah? All right, let's turn the clock back on.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0643par0347	Tomorrow at the Anadolu Agency Editorial Table, we listen for 45 minutes every morning.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0640par0348	I hope so. I mean, if you're listening, I'll talk hotter.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0644par0350	I wish you'd listen to us.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0640par0351	Although there are more students from Moldova who are studying in our country, he has a total of 39 student scholarships from Gagavuz Place. 15,070 textbooks were printed for the survival of the Gagavuz language. In Gagavuz, the Russian, Romanian Dictionary Project was supported, many such activities... From 1992 to today, 22,278 students from the Turkish world were granted a scholarship. 4,166 students are currently on scholarship in Turkey, and are studying in 26 provinces. Beyond that, there are projects like Projects on Youth Bridges, Youth Leaders Program, etcetera. Now, dear friends of these Turkmen, look, we've been dealing with this day and night, so whether it's Christian or Arab or Arab, whether it's Flame or Turk or Kurd, we've opened our arms to everyone, open the door.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0645par0354	Oh, come on! Mr. Secretary, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't,
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0640par0355	But the Turkmen are our lives, our blood, and we deal with their affairs day and night. The efforts to help Iraqi and Syrian Turks continue uninterrupted. Three camps of 34,500 people were set up in Zaho Derebun, Duhok Shariya, Zaho Berseve, for the purpose of housing Turkmen. In Islam, 9.107 Iraqi Turks are being met with all kinds of needs. Hatay Yayladağ, Gaziantep Islamiye, Osmaniye Cevdetiye, Malatya Beydağı, Hatay Küveççiççiçı are 23,641 Syrian Turks. With 22.495 vehicles, humanitarian aid was carried out at $1 billion,258 million. 450 trucks of help have been sent. Look, you're probably following them from the media, and almost every day our agencies, our NGOs, some of them 50 trucks, some of them 100 trucks, and we're shipping them out. Most of these are aid to the Bayır Bucak Turkmen. Something about Istanbul and the earthquake has been brought up. Here, 850 personnel will serve at the same time. The communication system has been strengthened and backed up. Plans for disaster and emergency response. What all institutions will do in preparation, in the course of intervention, and in what they will do after the earthquake has been prepared. In Istanbul, 1 million people have been trained in the awareness of the public, 5 million people have been trained in total. 962 public buildings have been strengthened; 972 schools, 43 hospitals, 59 clinics, 44 administrative buildings, 28 dorm buildings, 16 social services buildings have been strengthened; 233 buildings have been destroyed and rebuilt. Seven to eight thousand personnel have been taken to the AFAD. That's definitely not true. Number of AFAD personnel: three different institutions, you know, were combined when AFAD was installed. It's the combination of these and the connectivity of the rural organizations within the special administration of the provinces to the AFAD. So the new guy wasn't hired. The total number of employees in AFAD (AFAD) along with rural agencies in 81 counties is 5,508. Beyond that, there was talk of certain disasters. Artvin Province of Yazka, Hopa, Murgul, Arhavi districts. 3.7 million emergency assistance was sent here in the first place. After that, $35 million was sent out. Here, of course, I mean from time to time, this amount is increasing, so it's being put into the budget at first, but then why is it increasing so much? There are things like that. In fact, our MPs from opposition parties sometimes make demands. There's a landslide, a flood, we need this much support, etcetera. Of course, the AFAD is sending help here as a result of reports of objective criteria. According to Article 23 of Law 5902, the Fund for Disasters and Emergency Actions is being used on the basis of the Law on Disasters and Emergency Wastes, which was issued with the Ministry of Finance. This is subject to the Court's supervision. There are other issues here, but the question-answer will probably come up soon. Really, dear friends, these are Turkey's favorite institutions. He's taking care of the victims, he's flying the Turkish flag around the world, he's causing a great deal of sympathy and conversation to the Turkish nation. So, I thank you very, very much for all your work. And thank you very much for your contribution. I wish our budget to be blessed. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0646par0365	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, Minister of Finance Mr. Naci Agbal will speak. Your time is 25 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0647par0370	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my words, I salute your grand delegation. I'm here to make statements on the central management budget of 2016 in terms of the Treasury Undersecretary, the Capital Market Board, the Banking Editing Agency budgets. You know, these three institutions are our institutions that are taking on important tasks in economic management. In particular, these institutions pioneered many innovations in economics after 2002, reforms. The work of these institutions has played an important role in the economic achievements. I'm here today, especially after sharing a few issues with you in the terms of the Treasury Undersecretary budget, I'm going to make my own assessments of some economic assessments during the day. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as you know, the Undersecretary of the Treasury is operating in line with the principles of corporate management of state-owned enterprises and enterprises, as part of its duties stemming from public ownership. The Treasury Undersecretary also works on facilitating access to financing of start-up and early-stage enterprise companies and supporting venture capital funds through the transfer of funds to higher funds. The Treasury Undersecretary is also continuing its efforts to boost the development of the insurance industry and its private pension system and contribute more to the growth of domestic savings. In this framework, the development of auto-accession application, which is auto-accession, followed by the incentive for the development of the individual pension system, and facilitating the accession of individuals who do not have a verb driver's license to participate in the individual pension system. The funds offered for the 2016 budget are 73.2 billion TL. The $56 billion of the amount is envisioned for interest payments. 4.9 billion TL of the budget-funded transfers grant in the 2016 budget proposal consists of payment of duties to the KİTESTs and payment of revenue loss to public-owned banks, $3.1 billion of the individual pension system paying state contributions, and 560.1 million of the transfers abroad. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there have been some assessments of both the economy and some assessments of our budget during the day. I would also like to share with you the views of our government, our ministry. Some numbers have been shared, some nominal figures have been given, but these numbers have not been mentioned much about relative importance in the development of the economy. I'd like to get into these issues in particular today. You know, in groups of countries based on the level of economic development, while grouping, we are subject to a separation of the lower middle income-class countries, the upper middle income-class countries, and the higher income-class countries. In this regard, Turkey has been a country in the lower middle income class for decades, economically. Thus, when it comes to 2004, there is no denying the contribution of early work in the early 2000s, including Turkey's upper middle income group, starting in 2004. Turkey's per capita income was $5,060 in 2004, while as of 2015, our national income is around $9,300 per person. From 1990 to 2002, Turkey has not been able to make any improvements in individuality compared to the European Union and the United States. I'd like to give you a few numbers to be dramatic. When we compare countries, we compare national incomes per person, in dollars. Suppose, in early 1990, there were 100 per capita incomes per capita in the European Union. So, how many are we when AB is 100? We're approximately 34. So if they have 100 lira per person, we have 34. What time? 1990. Dear friends, so, we're coming to 2002, about 12 or 13 years ago; what happened with the scissors between Europe and Turkey? Is it tight? Have we made any progress? Did we approach Europe financially? No, we counted it. So when we get to 2002, what are we when the national income per person in the EU is 100 again? We're at 35. What time was it in 1990? We were at 34. So we're pretty much in position. Well, in 2002, the EU 100, Turkey 35. So where are we in 2015? Now, here's the data for 2014: we've come from 100 again, Turkey 53, 35, to 53. So in terms of economic development with Europe, as income levels, we've become very close as a national income per person. Is that enough? It's not enough. We need to get closer. But when you give some numbers here, you have to compare them to countries growing in relative proportions as of the times. At almost the same national income level, from 1990 to 2002, we see a significant improvement in the period of the AK PARTI governments while remaining as scissors. And it's not enough to look at growth rates alone. So there are basic infrastructures in a country that carry development forward: education, health, infrastructure, transportation. Where are you around here? If you're good around here, the country moves forward. Public investments, good things that you do in education, in health, increase the efficiency of production in the future, bring up the potential for society's growth. We always get criticism when we compare 2002, but we're here in 2002, we're still here, so we can't compare it because there's no interruption.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0648par0381	So, what's last year's national income, per person?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0647par0382	Look, during the EC PARTY administrations, there were not only national income or growth rates per capita, but there were also very serious expenditures, investments that would contribute to the development of this country through the budget. In 2002 -- I have to tell you -- the number of universities is 76, and now there are 183 universities in 81 provinces. What does that mean?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0649par0384	But they're all unemployed.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0647par0385	You give your youth greater access to higher education now.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0649par0386	There are 90 communication schools, all unemployed. Agriculture engineers are unemployed, food engineers are unemployed, teachers can't be appointed.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0647par0387	So one of the most important components in development is access to education, higher education of your human capital, your educational population. We've done 294,000 new classes. There were 26 airports in 2002, now 55 active airports. Istanbul Ataturk Airport is also under construction. Don't think I'm saying this as an investment on my own. All of these investments have contributed to our country's forward development and growth potential... the divided road across the republic is 6,000 kilometers, and now we've made three times more divided roads during the AK PARTI administrations.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0650par0389	You've given people problems that haven't happened all over the Republic.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0647par0390	So we've got an additional 10,000 miles. In the old days, there were only six provinces, and now it's up to 75.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0650par0391	Look at the comparison, all across the republic...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0647par0392	We've given 24 million citizens the option of a high-speed train.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0650par0393	What republic will you form?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0647par0394	I can take this too long. I mean, as long as it lasts...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0651par0395	When you arrived, Turkey was in the Stone Age!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0652par0396	Congressmans, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0653par0397	Bombs weren't planted, bombs were planted under the republic's roads, under the roads you built.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0398	When we got here, the banks were bankrupt. The budget...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0655par0399	For corruption. There's 100 times more corruption than what's been done.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0400	Look, you're saying a lot of nice things. Let me give you some numbers again, guys. It's good to know, we're forgetting the numbers.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0656par0401	Children born in 2002 are 15 years old.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0402	In 2002, when the AK PARTY took over the government, there was a budget.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0656par0403	Where were you in 2002? You weren't even a civil servant.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0404	Yeah, how much was that budget, $19 billion, $19 billion? Well, how much of that were we paying interest, $51 billion for interest. So we were spending $43 on interest for every hundred in public spending. So how much did we spend on this country's investments when we paid 51.7 on interest in 2002? The $19 billion budget, remember...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0657par0405	How much was the loan?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0406	...only $7.9 billion in deposits, remember that; 7.9; I'm holding.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0658par0407	How much interest are we paying now, Mr. Agbal?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0408	So how much money did we spend on health care in this country in 2002, 13.5 billion dollars, and let's keep that on the side?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0659par0409	You didn't leave any peace in the country.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0410	So how much did we spend on education in this country in 2002, $11.9 billion?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0660par0411	What's our education output, but what's our education output, so how are the kids doing?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0412	Now, I'm collecting, look, I'm collecting health, education, investment; I'm adding up, I'm getting $33.33 billion. How far has the interest gone, 51.7 billion liras. 51.7 big, 33.3 big?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0660par0414	Not everything is a number, Mr. Secretary. Where's our education quality, where's our education quality?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0415	Thus, the budget taken over by EC PARTY governments was an interest budget, interest budget, not a budget that served citizens. Well, let's get to today, let's see today, let's see the numbers. What's the situation today? Our budget went from $19 billion to $570 billion, and we've increased public spending by about five times.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0661par0417	Let's drop inflation, inflation.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0418	So, what's the interest? What did I just say? In 2002, it was 51.7 billion liras. So, what's the interest in 2016? 56 billion liras. Think about inflation, so with $51.7 billion in 2002, put 56 billion in 2016 side by side, where we actually get interest from. I already told you about that -- we were spending $43 of every $100 on interest, and now we're only paying $9.8 interest. Is that enough? That's too much, and that's gonna have to come down.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0662par0419	How much do we owe you?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0420	Hopefully, we'll see that some day these interest spendings have come down.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0663par0421	Minister, Bayburt has been elected the poorest province.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0422	Okay, here I come, let's do the account again: $7.9 billion in investment, now we have an 80 billion investment budget, let's not forget. How much do we spend on medical expenses in 2016? 95 billion liras, we're holding that, too. Education costs 109 billion liras. So let's add up: health, education and investment; when I add all three together, it makes 284 billion dollars, so we spend 284 billion dollars of the $570 billion budget on health, education, and investment. Well, it was $570 billion, total budget, so three of them are 284 billion. What's interest? 56 billion liras. So we give five times the interest in investment, health, education. This, this, this, this budget that we're going to call people's budgets, could be that kind of budget. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] I spoke to Mr. Aykut before, not to tease Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0663par0425	So one of you is missing.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0426	I'll say it because I wrote down what you said. When he speaks on the stand, no country is invested in law or judgment. He said, "I will sign it."
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0663par0427	Except for the hot money.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0428	So let's see: from 1984 to 2002, the amount of direct investment in Turkey is $14.8 billion, let's not forget. So how much is the direct investment from 2003 to 2015? 165 billion dollars. Is it 14.8 big or 165 big? Friends, therefore, when you're doing the evaluations, do you wish that the previous heart had been in the 1990s when this country developed, that the banks hadn't been robbed at that time? At that time...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0664par0430	You were a bureaucrat then, you were running the country, then you were a bureaucrat. Don't do it, don't do it. Weren't you at the Treasury Department?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0431	No, I wasn't. At the time, the staff that you were involved with was running this country, and we turned into that interest budget...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0664par0433	You were in the Ministry, why didn't you warn me? Why didn't you, Mr. Secretary? Why didn't you?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0434	Look, economics people know why this interest holds so much room in the budget. There are different factors that determine that. One of them is the amount of your debt. If your debt is high, of course you pay high interest, isn't that natural? From time to time, some of our friends come here and say the amount of public debt right now and bring criticism over this amount, and I'm amazed as an economic bureaucrat. The important thing is that today, in OECD countries, in European countries, they always compare the money paid for interest in one country to the illegal domestic product of that country. I'll give you a few digits: in 2002, Turkey was paying interest for about 15 per cent of GDP. Look, 15 liras of $100 worth of income went to interest. How much is it now? That's down to 2.9 percent, folks. So how did this happen -- now let's talk about the language of the economy -- how did this happen? The amount of debt is increasing nominally, but how does it get this far down? One: national income grew.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0665par0435	How did he grow up?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0436	Guys, with a bigger national income, we run this country.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0665par0437	The debt and the sale of assets.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0666par0438	Are the public aware of this?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0439	Two: If inflation is 62 percent in one country...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0665par0440	I don't want to interfere, but it's all wrong.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0441	...and if you're actually paying 25% interest, yes, your interest bill is high. Is it true? It's as simple as that.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0665par0442	What was LIBOR in 2002, and what was 2015?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0654par0443	Guys, it's on the table.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0665par0444	Yeah, no, tell me that.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0667par0445	Minister... 135 billion interest payments were paid by the end of 2003.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0668par0446	Please, let's not interfere with the speaker, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0669par0447	Look, this is the first time Turkey's ever come to a normal place in an OECD painting.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0667par0448	You've paid $649 billion interest in 14 years, interest. Tell me about it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0668par0449	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0669par0450	Dear friends, there's also been major reforms in public finance in the area of public debt management during the AK PARTY administrations. Everyone accepts it today, and everyone appreciates how transparent public accounts are inside and out in Turkey. Today we can also send data to Eurostat, and we can also send data to OECD. In the past, Turkey used to be a place in many parts of OECD paintings without data. Now, here, again, during the day, are the current obligations -- a little technical issue, but I have to answer -- reflected in government accounting? It's an important review. So, I agree with you from the bottom of my heart that we must answer for every penny we receive from the citizen, be transparent, be accountable, and never lose the rights of the orphan in the bandits. There's nothing wrong here, there's nothing wrong.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0670par0452	Court reports?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0669par0453	Now, guarantees and liabilities made by the Treasury Undersecretary are reflected in the accounting accounts and are reported regularly.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0671par0454	Show me the third airport, and I'll apologize.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0669par0455	On the other hand, I'm moving on.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0671par0456	Show me the third airport in accounting.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0669par0457	Moving on.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0671par0458	No, but Mr. Finance Minister.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0669par0459	On the other hand, accounting for investments and services under the public administration's public administration's public-private co-operation model is organised within the framework of the Accounting Process of Public Special Business Association Applications, which was prepared by the Finance Ministry in July 2015 and published in the Official Gazette. So when I was Undersecretary, we started doing these studies. We wanted all the commitments made within the framework of these public-private cooperation projects to be reflected in the accounting records from the very first moment because, as a result, they will come in the future as a burden on the budget. So we've provided transparency and accountability by making the necessary arrangements here. Again, some assessments of economic growth were made in 2016. Yes, of course, we all know that 2015 has been, in a global sense, the most difficult year since the crisis. While overall expectations for 2016 are positive, some recent global developments and data bring with them some risks for 2016, but we have a number of gains that allow our country to split in a positive direction in the developing world in a global sense, some improvements. In particular, a strong political power emerged in Turkey's 1st November elections, and the government's presence today is seen as an important contribution to Turkey in the financial markets. A government that not only maintains political stability, but also has a strong reform program. You know, as soon as we established the government, we immediately announced an action plan -- three months, six months, and a year -- and we've put every reform we can do in the process on a calendar. We said, "This is what we're going to do in this future, we're going to do it in a year. We're bringing them to our Assembly right now, one by one, passing through our Commission, coming to our General Assembly. Hopefully, the legal arrangement for guaranteed flexibility will soon come to the General Assembly. Therefore, there are political reasons to support the 4.5 per cent growth rate Turkey set as its target in 2016. There is a strong government, it has its agenda, it has an economic reform programme that is favoured by markets, and one by one is able to extract them from the Parliament and the Council of Ministers. Hopefully, these are positive developments in Turkey's growth. Again, in the context of consumption, in the context of investment, especially in fixed capital investments, we're constantly interviewing investors, we're talking to our industrialists, we're talking to our exporters, in the short and middle term, especially because political stability has been achieved, and they're very pleased that the government has implemented an important reform programme. So, hopefully, in 2016, there will be strong support for growth, especially with fixed capital investments by the private sector. You know, in 2016, the European Union market was expressed with positive developments, especially in the context of increasing domestic demand. Therefore, the European Union market is an important market for Turkey, and we think it will contribute to net exports on our growth goals for 2016. Every day, our exporters in the European market will hopefully be able to achieve the growth of exports by selling more products there. Again, one of the factors that will contribute substantially to growth is increasing savings. Hopefully, by promoting our arrangement with the individual pension system in 2016, we will have passed an important new arrangement through the House, both by bringing in the automatic accession system and at the savings point. Again, we have important reform agendas for the activation of the labour market. I've just said, the commission for guaranteed flexibility has passed, and the General Assembly will be arriving soon. Then, working with all social parties on severance pay...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0672par0468	There will be war, there will be war! Come on, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0669par0469	You know, if we want this country to develop, be competitive, we have to make our markets more efficient, more efficient.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0672par0470	Let's skip the severance pay, let's get to Bayburt, Bayburtt.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0669par0471	In any case, I hope Bayburt will get bigger and more investments in the coming period.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0673par0472	Bayburt Bayburt has never been tortured like this!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0669par0473	Bayburt will take whatever our 81 counties are buying.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0674par0475	Not there, here, here. We know about Bayburtt. The Minister hasn't seen it since Bayburt Bayburt!
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0669par0476	Dear friends, therefore, I respect the assessment of the economy. Of course, there are risks in this global economy, which has many risks from global economics, but let's face it, Turkey today has significant advantages in all the developing countries. I complete my speech with these words, and pay all your respects.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0675par0479	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Erdoğdu, let's hear it. What is it?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0676par0481	Mr. President, during the Minister of Finance's speech, he was a jerk. I don't mean...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0675par0482	He didn't.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0677par0483	But the numbers, either your numbers are wrong...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0678par0484	He didn't.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0675par0485	Because why didn't he pick on me?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0679par0486	His ideas that don't belong to me, like they belong to me.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0675par0487	I'm not messing around, don't take it that way. He told you, so I'm telling you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0679par0488	I want the second sentence of the first joke in 69. I just want to say that you're referring to ideas that don't belong to me so the conversation doesn't break.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0675par0489	But I agree with your thoughts. He said so.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0679par0490	No.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0680par0491	No, not about that, not about that.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0681par0492	I'm signing under it. I said.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0682par0493	I'm signing under it. He said, "I agree with your thoughts." He said, "I'm not kidding."
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0683par0494	You mean don't come out?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0684par0495	No, but you've given me my thoughts...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0682par0496	But I promise you where you are. Because there's no bullying here.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0685par0497	No, no.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0684par0498	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0682par0499	But don't tease me. Now, please...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0686par0500	There's sarcasm, sarcasm, sarcasm.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0682par0501	So don't make me not apply or reverse the Charter. Now I'm going to ask for a special word, promise not to tease him, and he's going to promise you that he's the Deputy Director of the Group. The problem will be solved.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0687par0502	If you appreciate it that way.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0682par0503	That's what we do all the time. We got under the charter like this and we got out of it somehow this year.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0687par0504	Mr. President, we don't intend to extend it at all, but now, the Minister's testimony in the part you mentioned.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0682par0505	I listened to Aykut Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0688par0506	No, you didn't listen, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0682par0507	Like I said, I know the drill. You will ask, and I will give to you because you are the deputy president of the group, and you will give to Aykut Bey.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0689par0508	No, no, I'm not saying that.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0682par0509	So instead of going like this, let's go like this. Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0690par0511	Before that, sir, I wasn't going to ask for it without picking on it. The idea that doesn't belong to me...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0682par0512	Okay, two minutes, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0690par0515	Good night, everyone. The reason I don't want to make fun of him is because he's so nervous, there's no teasing. It's been attributed to ideas that don't belong to me. To say, to make an additional statement... Mr. Minister of Finance says: "He told us about the Nominal figures." Yahu, Mr. Finance Minister, you've told us everything you've told us from the nominal numbers. These nominal numbers always go back to real numbers when they don't work out for you. This economy is two-way, like accounting. The same amount of debt gives birth to the same amount. Now, the Minister of Finance is coming here, he's explaining one side, and you're missing information, and you think the economy of Turkey is very good. It's not. We're trying to tell you so we can all know, take precautions. In fact, we need the Minister of Finance to come here and tell us both sides so that we can see the situation -- the will of the nation -- without looking at it differently. By God, he told me that the EU is still 100, the EU is still 100, the EU is zero, there's a recession in the EU, but there's no zero growth. I don't know which one to answer one by one. We arrived in 2002... we say that we had a severe crisis in 2002, but you know it can't happen when there's a crisis. The 2002 crisis was the result of the 1990s, as you know as a financer.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0691par0519	There was no crisis in the world in 2002.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0690par0520	Don't be unfair. It's starting from before... banks don't sink in a day. You say the number of colleges has increased, the content is in the middle. If you put it in concrete, we'll be exposed to the national education policy.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0692par0522	Why don't you tell us why banks go down?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0690par0523	There were 26 airports, 55. You sold them all, none of them yours. Moreover, there are at least 30 Hakkari airports in an Ataturk Airport. You don't want to talk about it. Look at it as an investment value. You're talking about interest-paying money, you're not talking about LIBOR, you're not talking about international conditions at the time, you're not talking about today's interest rate. It was 29 percent when you bought it, 1,500 percent. Pity, there's no such information.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0692par0525	Why don't you tell me why the banks are emptied?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0690par0526	The numbers you give in education and health again are nominal figures. It's only about direct investments... friends, direct investment is a good thing, but it's a bad thing to go after the country's stranger. You can't be proud of that. We sold banks, cigarette companies, everything to strangers. It's not creating employment, it's not adding value. Let's not be proud of it. Let's worry about it, let's worry about it.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0693par0527	Mr. Erdoğdu, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0690par0528	Sir, I thank you, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0693par0530	I'll tell you something else: I know you didn't take any promises because of the bullying, but then I had to promise you for a minute, if Free Special hadn't stood up.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0690par0531	We won't take it too hard, but we think we're right. Good evening.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0693par0533	Okay, fine. Congressmans, the second round of speeches...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0694par0535	Mr. President, if you'll excuse us...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0693par0536	I promise Mr. Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0694par0540	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we have carefully watched Mr. Finance Minister's statements. I don't promise any bullying either, but as far as I'm concerned...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0693par0542	Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0694par0543	Now, he mentioned that the budget has increased five times over 14 years, Mr. Secretary. That's right, it's gone up five times in numbers. Of course, there's also the benefit of saying that by freeing it from real, real inflation. And in the 14 years before you, where the budget came from, at least in the period of at least forty-fifty years, it makes a little bit more sense. Now, especially the problem... has been the rationalization of public expenditures since the 2007-08 crisis, the government. After that, he made a program for improving revenues, which means public spending is not rational, which means he needed to do a program like this, and he needed to improve revenues, so he tried to develop programs. In particular, the problem is that revenues should be adjusted according to the needs of the economy, as unfortunately, budget revenues in Turkey depend more on conjuncture. These structural problems need to be solved. I also pointed it out during the previous Finance Minister Mr. Simsek period, and he also acknowledged that the AKP period paid annual interest at $50 billion a year between 2013 and 15 years, while the 57th government's annual interest rate is 37.7 billion euros. As of this figure, the average annual figure of public interest payments during the AKP period, although the annual interest payments in the budget have decreased, as far as the numbers are concerned, has increased by 12.6 per cent. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...which is accepted by its sources. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0695par0550	Thank you, Mr. Akçay, thank you. 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board Final Account for Central Management 2014 THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2016 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2014 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Presidency 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2014 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2014 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2016 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2014 "I") "Turkish History Building" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Historical Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Administration Final Account for 2014 I just said the second round of talk is complete, but it's incomplete, so I'm sorry. Now, on the contrary, I promise Mr. Erkan Haberal, the Ankara MP. Your time is five minutes. Here you are, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0696par0599	Mr. President, thank you for your smiling face at this hour of the night, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0695par0600	You're welcome.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0696par0601	Dear MPs, dear bureaucrats of the Republic of Turkey, I salute you all. In this budget today, I think, on the one hand, the Turkish Language Foundation is on the other. As we evaluate this budget, we need to separate the Turkish Language Foundation in Turkey. Language means freedom; language means country; language means flag, Turkish means language, flag; language means country. In this land, we have the flag of God, the flag, the tongue, the flag of our saints watered by the blood of our martyrs, and we have the flag of two saints. Language is a means of communication between people. The language is not just a communication tool, but the most important element among individuals who reveal their identity both personally and nationally, providing unity and integrity among individuals in society. Language is the essential element of national culture and nation. The language, national unity and unity are the most important elements of integrity, a social institution to be cared for. For a nation, the language that has such an important place must be maintained, developed, protected from foreign influences and corruption in order to protect the unity and integrity of the nation. But, Mr. Secretary, I'm looking at you, the Turkish Language Foundation's budget is $15 million.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0697par0605	Look at the Finance Minister.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0696par0606	They asked Confucius, "What would you do first if you were invited to run a country? Confucius replied: "First I would correct the language; but if the language is not right, the words cannot speak thought well. When thoughts are not well described, what needs to be done cannot be done well. Ethics and culture will be corrupted if it can't be done. When morality and culture are corrupted, justice goes astray. If justice goes astray, the people will be overwhelmed with weakness and confusion, and they will not know what to do or what to do or what to do. So let him speak the truth. Nothing is as important as language. He said Mr. Confucius, but the Turkish Language Foundation's budget is 15 million. Mr. Secretary, I've submitted this to you in the Plan and Budget Commission. It's not a criticism of your individual, it's numbers from previous governments that came today, and I'm going to underline it every time.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0698par0608	So they don't have as much as the service network they're counting, do they?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0696par0609	I'll tell you, sir. Reverend Necip Tetovo, you're here, I thank you very much, I sign everything you say, but sir, you're the government, you're the power, go ahead, tell Mr. Minister, Mr. Agbal here, please double the budget for the Turkish Language Foundation. We gave 130 students a scholarship at the Turkish Language Foundation. He's performed 30 scientific events -- look here -- here. We're talking about the Turkish Language Foundation. He gave a scholarship to 130 undergraduates, a scholarship to 54 grad students. That's your Minister, isn't it?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0699par0611	Less?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0696par0612	15 million... look, you did it, the price paid for hotels at the top of the leaders is over 15 million. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] When we look at our native language in Turkish, we see that Turkish is spoken in the widest area of geography on earth, in 12 million square kilometers. Plus, we know that our Turkish is one of the six languages in the world, one of the most spoken languages. Mr. President, since I'm the last speaker, would you excuse me for two more minutes?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0700par0616	I can't.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0696par0617	I don't do politics, but I speak English.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0700par0618	But it's so inequality, it's just a matter of being fair.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0696par0619	Then, sir, I'll be fair. The most fundamental thing in our language is corruption. In the 16th century, after Arabic and Farsi entered our language, unfortunately, French entered our language, and the end, this period, our language was under the intense hold of English. In our language of education, especially in universities, the language of education has made English this way, it has caused corruption, and one of the main reasons today's debates in parliament are that we cannot use Turkish well.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0700par0621	Thank you, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0696par0622	I thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0700par0624	Congressmans, the second round of speeches is complete. Now, we're going to question-answer in 20 minutes. We've set aside ten minutes of this time, and in the next ten minutes, the ministers will answer the questions. Here we go. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0701par0628	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Yalçın Akdoğan. My first question, Mr. Secretary, today is February 28th, the anniversary of the coup against our national union. Was the Dolmabahçe meeting and the signed agreement carried out by the information and instruction of Mr. President, or was it done in spite of Mr. President? Again, I'd like to ask the Finance Minister about traffic insurance: Is it true that at least 20 per cent of our citizens are unable to get insurance due to the increase in mandatory traffic insurance premiums from 5 to 10 times? If it's true, it's a very dangerous development. Do you have any work to do a new pricing so that mandatory traffic insurance can be made by everyone? Many of our citizens related to agricultural insurance have been reportedly unable to re-insure the products of our citizens who benefit from natural disasters five years in a row.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0702par0632	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Tor...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0703par0634	Mr. President, thank you. My question is about the teachers, the teachers; our new generation will be their work, our distinguished, precious teachers. You can't give 3600 additional indicators to our teachers who have risen to the 1st degree; at least I expect you to review the price policy of the teacher's homes, which allows them to stay in their teachers' homes when they need it, and I ask the following questions: 1) Do you intend to equate housing fees for teachers who have almost reached the average hotel price with military housing prices? 2) Do you know that teachers can't stay at the D.C. Teacher's House -- in terms of price? Do you plan to use a special price schedule for teachers at the Capital Teacher's House? If you do not have such an opinion for the Capital Teacher's House, then I want you to know that our teachers and pensioners want the name of the Capital Teacher's House to be changed to the Grand Capital Hotel. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0704par0640	Thank you. Mr. Turkmen...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0705par0642	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, for Adana, there is an opening for doctors and staff at the Hurlbeyli State Hospital. Are you planning on doing anything to fix this? The lists are said to have been prepared by AKP district heads, while İSKUR is creating temporary jobs in other districts of Tuftbeyli and Adana. Are you planning on doing anything about it? In Kozan, rural villages, there are housing problems for imams and teachers, perhaps in other districts of Adana. Are you planning on doing a study on this? In our karaisalı district, in the countryside, because the forest cadastro has not been passed, our citizens who use land around here are unfortunately not making legal savings on land. Do you plan to do a study on the forest cadastro of Karaisa? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0706par0648	Mr. Coachdemir...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0707par0649	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, Mr. Secretary Yalçın Akdoğan. Is it true that our diplomatic units have been working to weaken international Turks and relatives in political representation, in which some of our state officials, because of their political division of Bulgarian Turks, have caused trouble with the country they are in, that a ban has been imposed on the leaders of a party operating in Bulgaria to enter Turkey? In the same way, is it true that the Chief of Health and Internal Affairs who came from Bulgaria on the Kurideres' friendly night of last week's scholarship, was given special instructions by the chiefs of chiefs of chiefs of chiefs of staff, and what is the purpose here, if it is true? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0708par0654	Mr. Aksu...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0709par0655	Mr. President, my question is, Mr. Finance Minister, you told him that between 2003 and 15 there was an entry of about 165 billion dollars directly into foreign capital. So how much of this is about finance, insurance, banking, how much of it is about service, how much is it about the mall, how much is it about retail and how much is it about real estate sales? How much of this foreign capital entry has been in the form of an exchange of hands? How much of this is funded by national banks? To what extent was direct foreign capital used in investments that would increase capacity and employment in production? If foreign capital is effective, why is the growth average of your time lower than in the past? For example, what is the size of the investments that generate technology, added value and employment within the foreign capital entry of $16.6 billion that was stated to have arrived in 2015? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0708par0657	Mr. Lightning... No?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0710par0659	No, no, no.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0708par0660	Mr. Kamil Aydın...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0711par0661	Mr. Akdoğan, graves are a memorial expression of the existence of nations and deeds. Therefore, in Mosul, Kerkuk, Suleymaniye, and Erbul, they began from the graves to destroy Turkmen's presence in the region, and then the deeds. You've pointed out something, and I'd like to give you a little bit more information by developing it: on our last trip to Belgrade, we have a window in Belgrade, an Ottoman mosque, but all the stones of the shrines in its garden have been torn apart, left aside, like a group like this. When I asked the mosque's official, sir, a group of Wahhabis bought the time of the mosque, and so they said, "Look at the grave and the gravestones, and the monuments." They ripped it out in the open and put it away. It offends me, and it upsets me, so I'd like to bring it to your attention.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0708par0662	Thank you. Mr. Erkan Aydın...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0712par0664	My question to Mr. Tuğrul Türkesh. Mr. Minister, the Ministry of Transport of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus has made a deal with a private company from Turkey for $11,250,000 in US dollars without bidding for the maintenance and repair of Ercan Airport. State Air Squares have announced that they can do it for free by assigning technical personnel, and our Lefkosa Embassy has declared a negative view of this tender. KKTC Ombudsman Emine Dizdarlı also held a press conference stating that this was clearly irregular. While the subject may seem to be civil law, the following questions come to mind: Turkey is the source of the KKTC economy. Is this source illegally reserved for private companies? Is the company the KKTC Department of Transport has any relationship with your government? Despite the objection of our Lefkosha Embassy, have you done any research and investigation into the agreement?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0713par0667	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0714par0668	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Yalçın Akdoğan, my question. In his speech from his seat, Mr. Secretary, the YPG and the PKK are low-rent organisations. They hosted Salih Müslim, the head of the YPG, which he called a low-down organization, and gave him a red passport. Wasn't he a scoundrel at the time? That's what I'm asking. Second, we know that Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan will not step forward in the Dolmabahçe session without knowing Mr. Yalçın Akdoğan. Did they sit there unawares, or were they told (by others)? And Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, when the Sivas massacre was launched, was timed out, and many murderers were saved, and he said, "Good luck and good luck, as if he were laying a foundation or opening." Now I don't know the Constitutional Court's decision and I don't respect it. We're protesting such a double standard and we don't find it right. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0715par0674	Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0716par0675	Mr. President, it has been announced that the mining work in Cerattepe has been halted by the people of Artvin until the legal process is concluded, but Mr. President considers the people of Artvin to be terrorists, such as the youth of the Travel. Now, I'm asking the government, do you see Cerattepe actions as acts of terrorism? If that's the way you see it, are all of Artvin's people terrorists? Are you going to arrest all the people of Turkey who support the people of Artvin for aiding and abetting terrorism? Mr. Prime Minister, Cerattepe has met with his resistance. According to the President, is the Prime Minister involved in aiding and abetting terrorists? Do the prosecutors have a look at this?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0715par0678	Thank you. Mr. Ministers, come in. You have ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0717par0681	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I think I have three minutes. Now, questions about Bulgaria have been asked. In Bulgaria, of course, we have a very close relationship with all our relatives, not just Bulgaria, but our relatives in all the Balkans, in all the countries. We have a very warm relationship with the parties there. So when I'm gone, I'm meeting with all the party presidents, and our Prime Minister is getting together. We contribute to all kinds of things as governments, but beyond that, our municipalities have sister municipalities, our NGOs, the Diet Foundation, where we have some activities, so we have a very good relationship with both our relatives and our citizens. There, however, an ex-party chairman of Russia's auction for Turkey took a stand against Turkey and went into a series of openly hostile remarks to Turkey. Our criticism is against him. The division within the party is the result of a political operation carried out by that individual. Later, some MPs leave and form another party. This is a process that works in its own context. So we're trying to contribute to these countries within the framework of our bilateral relations and not to interfere in their domestic affairs. Beyond that, I want to thank you very much for the sensitivity to Belgrade, so this has been brought to our attention. So I gave instructions to our friends. I mean, whatever can be done there. Of course, as I said, we are able to operate in the framework that the countries there allow. We also know that mosques in these countries can be used for different purposes, sold to different people because they did not have a congregation in the past period. We're also trying to get them back to their original function by buying them in a frame that the law can afford. And on our last visit, Mr. Prime Minister said that if a plot was assigned, it could be done in a large area, and we could do all of that in order to satisfy the needs there. But our embassy will take care of what you're saying, but we also see that there are other structures like this and that mosques can be used for different purposes. Unfortunately, we have shown our every kind of goodwill here, but we can also say that in those countries things are more difficult to deal with. Beyond that, the Dolmabahçe thing, it's being asked every once in a while. Of course, Dolmabahçe is not an agreement. I said on that day that Dolmabahçe was not an agreement. Nothing is signed. I met with our HDP MPs as Minister of the Legislature. This isn't the first time we've been together. We've had interviews before, and there, HDP MPs read a call about the drop of a gun. Beyond that, I don't think it's right that such a serious matter should be drawn to different, cheap polemic areas.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0718par0686	Mr. Secretary, is he or is he not aware of the President?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0717par0687	Our president has made a statement here, and we don't think it's right to say anything beyond our leader's word. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0719par0690	So let's just shut up. Those persimmons you ate will scratch you today.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0720par0691	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0721par0692	Now, there's one outstanding question, but before that, I want to thank the two opposition parties for their positive, constructive opposition, once again, at the point that the Turkish Language Foundation's budget and activity are not enough. Since we made preliminary preparations during a narrow period when both parties were prevented from entering the government, he failed to reach this year's budget.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0722par0693	Where were you then, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0721par0694	Hopefully, next year, we'll actually make the budgets of the Turkish Historical and Turkish Language Foundation more worthy of institutions, but I warn you now: if you sideline at that stage, if you don't contribute, then I'll also meet with you as well. Now, I believe the Republican People's Party had asked about an airport there, betting that relations with the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus were up to me. Tanju Özcan Beydi, I read from the books that they couldn't find other institutions to give, they just gave them this institution. I hope he himself has heard that his friend Bkent Bey has expressed that relations with a state like the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus depend on me, and I think he'll understand a little bit more what I do; although, of course, I'm hopeful of his son, and we've seen that he doesn't understand.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0723par0698	Can we have the answer?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0721par0699	Now, one of the many projects conducted in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is the increase and expansion of the airport's capacity there, but so far no grant has been given from Turkey. There are allegations, as you speak, that are being investigated. I can get more information in writing. I think that's enough.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0723par0700	Can I have it in writing?
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0721par0701	There were other questions at other talks, but I'll report them to these MPs later. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0724par0703	Mr. President, a question has been asked regarding mandatory traffic insurance. You know, there's been some arrangements recently for mandatory traffic insurance. It's caused a series of disturbances and complaints among our citizens. In particular, a law regulation is under way by our Treasury Undersecretary, following an arrangement aimed at increasing the premium level. In insurance, you know, what's important is the risk, the risk-appropriate collateral, and the proportionality of a bonus structure. As I understand it, there are certain judicial decisions in the current system that increase the risk, and there are certain issues that are open in the current system, and hopefully, once they're covered by the legal arrangement, they'll also make the necessary arrangements for the bonus. Secondly, I said in my speech, you know, there was a direct foreign capital investment of about 15 billion dollars from the 1980s to the beginning of 2002, but there was an investment of about 165 billion dollars in Turkey from 2003 to 2015. It's a pleasure to all of us to have more foreign capital here, once in a while, coming into our country in this way. Foreign investors will come to this country, invest, and hopefully this will contribute to the development of our country. You know, textbooks that study at universities on foreign capital often explain how foreign capital goes to a country? If there is no political stability in a country, if there is no economic stability, if there is no economic predictability, if economic parameters are constantly going down or up in that country, foreign capital does not go into that country. After 2002, especially political reforms, the construction of the legal state, the reforms in the field of economics have made our country a major center of attraction in its region. Important investments in this framework have also come to our country. Look, let me finish by giving you a number, 24 percent of the investments that come in are only about the manufacturing industry. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0725par0708	Mr. President, I need to make a correction, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0726par0709	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0725par0710	I just told you, when I was answering the questions, from the Republican People's Party's rankings, Bulent Bey was asking the question. I have received a note saying that Mr. Erkan Aydın has asked. Correction, I apologize.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0726par0711	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0727par0712	Of course, we'd like you to send the written answer...
tbmm-2016-02-28sit07spe0726par0713	Members of lawmakers, I will now, in turn, make you read separately and vote on the transfer of the budgets in the second round. Undersecretary of Treasury, I submit to your votes for the transfer of the central management budget of 2016: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.82) AGREEMENT 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 58,271,489.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,244,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 11:851.142,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 3.099.551.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 73,223,426,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Treasury Undersecretary is adopted into the central management budget of 2016. Undersecretary of Treasury in 2014, I submit to your votes that the final account of central administration should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 67,404,784.997,16 Budget Expenses 64.109.087.899.06 Canceled allowance 3.295.697.098.10 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 846.692.736.00 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Treasury Undersecretary was adopted in 2014 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Banking Editing and Investigation Agency will be transferred to the central management budget in 2016: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.04) THE BUILDING AND EXPERIENCE OF BANCY 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 17.895,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,150,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 307,955,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 327,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 326,950.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Earnings 50,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 327,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Banking Editing and Control Agency has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2016. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2014 will be transferred to the chapters of the Banking Editing and Investigation Agency: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 232,000,000,00 Budget Expenses 103,264,918,55 Canceled Fund 128,735,081,45 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 232,000,000.00 Net Collection 228,585,460,57 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Banking Editing and Control Agency was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Capital Market Board shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2016: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.03) PIECE OF PIANO 1) Capital Market Board 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 40.726,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 9.416,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 68.507,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 118,649,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 93,19,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 25,450,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 118,649,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Capital Market Board has been adopted into parts of the central management budget of 2016. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Capital Market Board's central management account of 2014 will be transferred to its chapters: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) The Capital Market Board Final Account for Central Management 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 103,417,000.00 Budget Expenses 86.962.868.72 Canceled Fund 16,454,131,28 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 103,217,000.00 Collection 226,716,792,93 Ret and Returns 643.392.01 Net Collection 226,073,400,92 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Capital Market Board was adopted in 2014 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of Foundations will be transferred to the central management budget of 2016: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.18) THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 28.831,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 10,043,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 468,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 379,230.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 65,666,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 484.238,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 498.170,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Influences 50,270,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Earnings 110,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 658.440.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2016 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2014 shall be transferred to the chapters of the Foundation General Directorate: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 603,475,179,93 Budget Expenses 547.926.725.54 Savings Expenses 4,612,83 Cancelled Grant 55,501,087,12 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 51,980,10 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 535,174,000.00 Collection 613.005.380.86 Denied and returned 14.850.433.53 Net Collection 598.154.947.33 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The General Directorate of Foundations was adopted in 2014 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the president of the disaster and emergency administration shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2016: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 07.96) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 87,501.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 96.544,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 49.145,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 3,080.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 810,972,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 1,052.242,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I'd like to submit to your votes that the president of the disaster and emergency management of the central management account of 2014 be transferred to the chapters of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: Total allowance 1.015.406,000.00 Budget Expenses 896,876,899,19 Funds Expenses 479,48 Canceled Fund 118,529,580,29 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The head of disaster and emergency management was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2014. The chairman of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2016 will be transferred to the chapters: those who agree... those who do not accept... are accepted. 40.32) Turkish Employment and COORDINIASYON AJANSI Vice President 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Presidency 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 178.896,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 714,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 179,610.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 80,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 176,770,70,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 2,650,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 179,610.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2016. President of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2014 be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2014 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 252.140.867.62 Budget Expenses 138.424.104.41 Canceled Fund 71,212,242,15 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 42,504,521,06 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 132.267,000.00 Net Collection 136.999.097.26 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency's presidency was approved as a final account of central management in 2014. I submit to your votes that the president of the international Turkish and related communities shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2016: those who have not accepted... those who have not. 40.51) THE PRESIDENT OF THE YURTDISH ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTIONS 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 57,217,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 474,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 190,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 247.691,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 649.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 246,842,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 200,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 247.691,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The presidency of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2016. I submit to your votes that the President of the Foreign Turks and Relatives Associations, in 2014, the final account of the central administration, shall be transferred to the chapters of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 214.241.636.80 Budget Expenses 179,534,348,81 Cancelled Grant 34,707,287,99 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 194.504,000.00 Net Collection 188,029,008,10 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The president of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad was granted a final account of central management in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History shall take part in the central management budget of 2016: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.02) THE ATATURK CLUB, LANGUAGE AND ARTIAL PRODUCTION 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 11.354,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 350,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Gen. TOPLAM 11.704,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 7.600 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 11693,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3,400 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 11.704,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2016. Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management in 2014 be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who don't. 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 9.908.918.00 Budget Expenses 9.614,473,42 Canceled Fund 294,444,58 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 9.247,000.00 Net Collection 9.290.209.63 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2014. Ataturk Research Center, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2016 will be transferred to its sections: those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 40.03) ATATURK RESEARCH CENTER 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4.925,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 4.925,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Attempts and Property Profits 94,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 4,831,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 4.925,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ataturk Research Centre was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2016. Ataturk Research Center, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2014 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 4.104,500,00 Budget Expenses 3.720.563.96 Canceled Fund 383.936.04 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 3.139.000.00 Net Collection 3.479.194,17 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Ataturk Research Centre was adopted in 2014 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Cultural Center will be transferred to the central budget of 2016: those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 40.04) ATATURK CLUB CENTER 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2016 Central Management Budget 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4.957,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 4.957,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 170,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 4:787,000 Special Influences With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 4.957,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ataturk Cultural Centre was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2016. Ataturk Cultural Center, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2014 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2014 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 4.855,000.00 Budget Expenses 3.457.491.23 Canceled Fund 1,397,508,77 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 4.105,000.00 Net Collection 4.069.187,41 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Ataturk Cultural Centre was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Language Foundation shall take part in the central management budget of 2016: those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 40.05) ENGLISH LANGUAGE 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2016 03 Public Order and Security Services 366,700 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 14.872.300 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 15,239.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 94,721,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 316,250 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 52,630.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings 5.250 TOPLAM 147,673,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Turkish Language Institution's central management budget of 2016 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Language Foundation's central management account of 2014 will be transferred to the chapters: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 17.534,000.00 Budget Expenses 11.526.547.76 Cancelled Fund 6,007,452,24 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 145,000,000.00 Net Collection 133,644,288,51 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Language Institution's central management account in 2014 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Historical Foundation shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2016: those who have not accepted... those who have not. 40.06) Turkish Tariq Kurd 1) Turkish Historical Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 613.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 9.620.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 10.233,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 85,711,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Funds and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 50,014,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 135,729000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Turkish historical institution's central management budget of 2016 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Historical Society in 2014 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Administration Final Account for 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 65,636,871,72 Budget Expenses 61.260.732.72 Canceled Fund 4.376.139.00 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 130,000,000.00 Net Collection 127,515,248,49 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2014 were adopted. Thus, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the second round were accepted. I wish them well. Congressmans, our second round of talks is complete. According to the programme, 11 p.m. on Monday (February 29th 2016) to discuss the budgets and precise accounts of the organisations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00. Thank you. I bid you good night.
