tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Tekirdağ MP Candan Yüceer, who wants to talk about Tekirdağ's problems. Here you go, Mr. Supreme. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes. Congressmans, I've invited the clerk. Please, we expect a deep silence.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0002par0012	Mr. President, the honorable MPs are today the anniversary of our counties and the release of our 13 November Tekirdağ from enemy invasion. In fact, the heart would want to be able to speak of the heroics of the Tekirdağs, of our Battle of Salvation, of our bloodshed, of our independence that we have earned; if I could say that November 13th was a day of pride for the Tekirdağs, who absorbed the republic and its values, then the heart would wish that we had built the republic and democracy with all our institutions and institutions, and we could claim our nature, our land, our social peace, but unfortunately today neither our nature nor our republic is safe. Unfortunately, I regret to say that while our nature, our forests are being slaughtered for the sake of someone's Rant, our social peace, our republic, and our democracy for the sake of someone's passion. If people in a country are going to wake up in bed at night, what kind of country will I wake up in? That country has become unmanageable. If no one is looking with hope for the future, if everyone is living in anxiety, then the name of living in that country has become a nightmare. Thus, the government has made Turkey a country like this day by day; pleasure, injustice, lawlessness, unfortunately, is now a day-to-day state. We're all living in a big prison now. You know, there's an example, that if you button a button wrong, it'll all go wrong. Now you've got all the buttons mixed up. From foreign policy to security, from economy to law, you've screwed everything up. Right now, you're looking to create an opportunity for a coup attempt, turn it into an opportunity. It will take hours to read the list of your sins with the journalists, but I don't know how you're watching people who aren't really involved in the coup, who have nothing to do with it, how you're watching journalists get arrested, how you're digesting it. Dear MPs, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroğlu, our President, goes with the election that comes with the election. When he says, "The arrest of lawmakers is contrary to the Constitutional Court and the proceedings of the Constitutional Court." When it is said, "Oh, my God, the ground has been moved." It's as if our President-General had told our martyrs, as if he'd said to Abdullah Ocalan, Mr. Ocalan, and he'd spoken to him, as if he had read his declaration in the squares; as if he had told the governor, the soldiers, the weapons that the PKKK had laid on the cities, and the moats he had dug. And, weren't you the one who posed in Dolmabahçe with what you said today? (CHEERING) Aren't you the one who wrote the memorandum of understanding with them? What's changed? They're saying the same thing they said yesterday. And, weren't you, today, who, as you call them, set them up one by one in the army, in the military, in the judiciary, in the police force, and tried the Chief of Staff as the leader of the organization? Wasn't that you? Were you not the one who called the leader of the terrorist organization, who called for praises, and for him, to end this longing? And wasn't it you, your lawmakers, your ministers, your children, your businessmen, who raised their fingers in the House, covering up the biggest corruption of our history, the corruption of December 17th-25th, which you missed from the judiciary? Of course, today is yesterday, today is today. You, for your own good, are entitled to anything. You can do it this way, but our understanding is that it's the law that defines our understanding, democracy, justice and conscience. Our understanding doesn't change for our personal interests, for our personal interests. We'll keep saying what we said yesterday here today, and we'll keep saying that in the future, that won't change. I assure you, we'll say that for you one day, so don't worry. As I end my sentence again, I celebrate the 94th year of our Tekirdağ's deliverance from enemy occupation. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you, Your Honor. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Antalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0004par0023	Mr. President, I'd like to promote the health community for those who don't know first. The group of health workers, whose night is added to the day, is one of the most highly educated groups of our country, and it should be. Of course, before the AKP governments, our human resources in health care were limited but highly qualified. He had a quality service presentation with our highly trained and staffed employees who did the real work. Patients did not try to be treated by visiting physicians, such as today, and then by traveling with physicians, by negotiating with hospitals. We didn't teach 150 people at medical schools in amphibians like we do now. Our graduates received the training they needed to receive in the proper way, bringing health to our nation as physicians. Paramedics had a public reputation. Now it's the other way around, because as AKP governments, you have unitedly transformed health into a business. Now, let's take a closer look at the health workers' problems. Health workers' pensions are too small to accept because their return capital additional payments are high and they are not reflected in the pension area. 91 per cent of retired physicians are still working today. 14 per cent of retired physicians are on the edge of hunger, while 80 per cent are on the edge of poverty. We, the National Movement Party, offer a healing increase that is both the rights of retired and working medical staff. And for that, we offered the law to our House. The Prime Minister, who opposes a group of medics at every Medical Bay, gives the good news that the Minister of Health is going to give him a share of the wear and tear. The news of a raise is spreading to health workers and pensioners on every medical holiday, which is not available on the Internet, but its sources and details are not available. And then, unfortunately, disappointment... Now, let's get down to the burnout. Let's be clear, the AKP government tells the medics: "If you stand guard for 48 hours a month, if you stand watch for three days, if you stand watch for this much time, the amount of wear and tear. The offer makes a sense to the medics. Please don't stall our paramedics. In the rule of the National Movement Party, where rights, law, justice will prevail, the medics will receive 90 days of wear and tear each year, regardless of the watch, so we will give one year of wear and tear each four years. But, don't worry, wherever there's lawlessness, wherever there's an underdog, we'll be there as the National Movement Party, and we'll continue to defend our citizens. We'll have all the medical institutions meet with our trained young people. The number of non-assigned paramedics is now 350 thousand. You know, the ones you called the Ministry of Health about 22,000 years ago, but only 4,623 of the 10,800 people you've made over the year, are our fellow paramedics. Stop exploiting these children, these young people, for the sake of your subcontractor policies. It's really a sin to divide less than half of your purchases into our brothers and sisters, but there's an opening for the staff. These children, who have graduated from schools that you've opened and encouraged to go to every city, are unfortunately unable to get a job today because of your policies, and you're not doing the job descriptions of these young people. For example, home care technicians, oral and dental technicians, these young people can't get a job after they graduate from the schools that you've opened because you don't do job descriptions of them. We proposed as the National Movement Party and presented it to the Parliament. Don't stop us, let's all make these young people happy and give our families a happy news from here. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0005par0029	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Istanbul MP Osman Boyraz (the Istanbul MP) who asked for a comment on World Urbanism Day. Here you go, Mr. Boyraz.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0006par0034	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book agreement regarding November 8th World Urbanity Day. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation, who are watching us at the beginning of its screens, with the most heartfelt of feelings. The city is a world view, a mindset, a bone, an objectification. It is the spirit of man, who is the Caliph of God, that he breathes into the earth by reason of reason and heart. In this sense, cities have their own identity and soul, representing the civilization of which they belong. Think of Istanbul in that understanding, the seven signposts of civilization. The glorious tree that watered the village,/ those who sleep in your shadow, are peaceful, happy,/ there are traces of history on the silver belts,/ a prayer to Fatih from Whiteıt, Istanbul. Cities are libraries without books, without buildings. An architect's heart world is actually the syllables that come out of the poet's tongue. Sultan Mehmet Khan, the Conqueror, has expressed the relationship of the city-human-civility as follows: "Hüner is to build a city, to conquer the truth, to embrace the heart. " This phrase, which tastes of poetry, gives us the philosophy of what a city is like. It's the building of the city and the overcoming of the heart. That's the spirit of the city. A city that takes its license from the heart and turns its heart into its heart is a city that settles in the heart of man. Only the heart of a city that is built with insight will give it a license. If the heart doesn't want it, whatever you put on the stone, it's a fugitive. It violates the laws of the heart, history and city, and it's a pirate building. Again, it is the inhabitants of that city that has made a city a saint, a place of honor, a place of the heart of our civilization that reveals its relationship with man and place. It is an important teaching that depicts a city-human relationship that spoke to us many years ago and to our future. Arif is the city of identities, and the heart of the city is enough to establish the point where our civilization came from in the sense of the city. Thus, the cities that protect their own identity have thus far preserved their existence. The scent of the rose of Medina has drawn people there for hundreds of years. Is it not the climate of tolerance for the man who led us to the lconium? Can we separate Istanbul from Sultan Ahmet Mosque, the spiritual heritage of Eyüp Sultan? When you are on your way to Sivas, you see the glory of the Seljucian civilization in Sky Medrese, the double Minare, and Burusiane Medrese, and how good it is to find you in the embroidery of Seljucan, and how beautiful it is to hear you in the voice of a Neysi Sivasi. You hum the lamp in the blessed shrine of Shemsi Sivasi. Aren't these the values that sustain our cities? It is our duty to preserve these values and move them to the future. As a nation that has built and ruled the most ancient civilizations of history, we must be in the midst of taking care of our cities today. AS AK PARTY, our understanding of civilization is to take possession of this ancient civilization and build a bridge from the past to the future. With that understanding, we've restored 4,500 foundations in 14 years. Because we know that the rise and fall of civilizations manifest the fates of cities. Civilities crown their rising period with symbolic cities. Mr. President, with his understanding of municipalism when he was the mayor of Istanbul, he demonstrated a sense of urbanism that matches the historical identity and texture of this ancient city. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to present a sorrow to you here today. The more our cities are ours, the more common values of humanity. It's our duty to protect and protect our common values. In the Middle East, ancient cities are burned down in the Balkans, cities are destroyed, the collective memory of humanity is being wiped out. Baghdad, Damascus, Aleppo, Mosul, Kerkuk, many civilizations, our cities, our memories, are being destroyed. Cities are living beings. Our cities have as much right to live as people do. I condemn the mindsets that ignore this right, bomb, and destroy our cities without a target. To all who show no sensitivity, no reaction, please, be honest, have a conscience, take possession of humanity's common heritage, and don't be silent about their disappearance. With these thoughts, I celebrate the Day of World Urbanism once again, and salute your grand delegation once again with the hope that all urban work will succeed.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0007par0043	Thank you, Mr Boyraz. So, off-the-tops talk is complete. Now, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the first 15 members of parliament entering the system according to the Civil Code 60. The first word belongs to Mr. Aydın. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0008par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey wants to be dragged into total chaos. The dark forces that want to create chaos target the Republican People's Party. First, our President-General, then our vice-presidents, our mayors, and then yesterday, our Dictation Dictation Mission in Bursa Osmangazi. Ten days ago, our neighborhood representative's signs were removed, and then an attack took place, and yesterday, five self-involved people entered our diplomatic mission and wrote very ugly words about our president across the walls of our diplomatic mission. We warn those who want to lead Turkey into chaos here: the Republican People's Party is not alone; I say with its MP, its voter, its voter, we will not surrender to those who want to do it with 78 million, and we will always be against it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0009par0053	Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0010par0055	Mr. President, I want to share a message from my good fellowman from Erzurum Karayaz, who says: "A curse upon those who smell of hatred, hatred, and clothing of gunpowder." Let our nation know that the Kurds themselves are going to cut off the structures of non-national forces that weave their tissues. Responding to calls for action against trustee appointees, Diyarbakırns shout out to all the people of Hınis, Karaçoban, Teman, Karayyat, and our brothers, the one country, one state, one flag, one nation. It is impossible for any political structure to find supporters in the new Turkey, get votes, do politics. Kurds have buried the pit politics of violence, violence, and blood in a pit of steel will. Our southeast is pregnant with a new era in which guns are forever silent and true Kurdish politicians who reject violence speak freely without signaling from the Kandil and the Imran. The Kurdish-Turkish brotherhood will be the yeast of this new policy of service and development. Peace be upon those whose hearts beat with the love of the nation.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0009par0056	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0011par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. 46 teachers serving in the district of Hopa have been suspended on September 8, 2016. Although the grounds for their suspension were not explicitly stated in the article sent to them, the main reason for their participation in the operation of ENTIM-SEN, which was organised throughout Turkey, was given to the Fetullahist terrorist organization as a basis for the operation, and the teachers were suspended. Because 46 teachers are out in the open right now, both their students and their families... all the families in our Hopa district and Arhavi district have been incredibly victimized. All my applications for access to the Minister of National Education, which I've made so far to address this issue have failed. If a congressman can't reach the minister, it's a month that has shown me that it's impossible for one of the people to reach the minister. In this sense, these teachers have to return to the post...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0009par0061	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0012par0063	Mr. President, lawmakers, our country is in a state of economic straits, but unfortunately, economic problems are not the priority of the government that governs our country. AKP executives don't have time to take care of our people's livelihood by saying, "Long live you, Padişah." I'm asking the AKP government: the foreign debt of the private sector is close to $300 billion, and when you say, "Every presidential part of the industry," the currency is rising. Do you realize that while debts are increasing exponentially, thousands of companies are bankrupt and thousands are on the verge of bankruptcy? Are you aware that the economic embargo has now been spoken to Turkey abroad, and that it has caused even the destruction of the talk? Do you realize that our unemployed army has grown up every day, and the number of people who have been legally pursued is close to 3 million? Are you aware of the despair of the economic crisis we are in, the despair of our people? Our people will never submit to your policies of tension, pessimism, and fear.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0013par0066	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0014par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP government is driving our country to war inside and out! The AKP government is driving our country to war inside and out! The AKP government is driving our country to war inside and out! The AKP government is driving our country to war inside and out! The AKP government is driving our country to war inside and out! The AKP government is driving our country to war inside and out! The AKP government is driving our country to war inside and out! The AKP government is driving our country to war inside and out! The AKP government is driving our country to war inside and out!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0013par0071	Yeah, there was nothing wrong with the system, so I checked to see if it was stuck. Mr. Horseman, thank you. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0015par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. On Sunday, the ceremony was held and opened because of natural gas coming to 40 districts of Turkey, particularly Erzincan Grapelü. First of all, I'd like to wish this gas to be a blessing. There is no natural gas in any of the districts of Mersin, except for Mersin. Virtue, Anamur, Gülnar, Mut, Silifke, Bozyazı and Aydıncık are waiting for natural gas. My question to the Minister of Energy: is there natural gas in your plan for 2016, 2017, 2018? Are you forgetting about Mersin? You're talking about natural gas projects from grape to Keşan, but unfortunately, we don't see an investment program about Mersin. I don't want this brought up... And my second question is, in 2016, the power outages were killing people. Isn't the electricity we produce enough, are there other problems? And I'm waiting for immediate measures to be taken, and I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0016par0079	Mr. Illgezdi, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0017par0081	Mr. President, the honorable struggle of our people against the thermal power plant, which was planned to be established at the Chaapak Bay of Amasra, continues. Citizens who have been campaigning against the project for a month at the centre of Amasra and Bartın have allowed 2,000 people to be involved in the trial against the thermal plant in the 6,000-population district. This case is a hopeful example of the great struggle against the plundering of green and nature throughout Turkey. This struggle must be fought decisively because we see that power is not only targeting green and nature, but also historical sites that make up the building blocks of our social memory. The illegal restoration of the historic Fashion Pier in Kadıköy, the attempt to forget Haydarpaşa Garı for many years, the closure of cultural art facilities that form Beyoglu's cultural identity, the opening of Istanbul's symbolic neighborhoods into urban construction, the turning of the beaches into filling areas, I want it to be known.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0016par0083	Mr. Bektasoglu instead of Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0018par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. After all this progress, protecting the republic, democracy, democratic rights and freedoms has been an obstacle to our legislative activities. As MPs, we also express our demands and demands for this issue, not the problems of our provinces. I spent the weekend in Giresun, my constituency. As in all Turkey, everyone is concerned and concerned about recent developments in our province. That's why I haven't met a single citizen who's happy because our country can't get normal. The further we get away from democracy, the more we get away from peace, from peace, from love, from trust, from hope. Every day makes me look for the day before. It's like another power on top of everything is planning everything and then pushing the button. One morning, we wake up, and a prosecutor who turns out to be a journalist is ordering us to print a newspaper, to arrest a journalist. One night, simultaneously, several cities are under arrest by lawmakers. Bombs are going off, martyr funerals are coming every day from the border provinces, across the border. We're heading for a cliff fast. The only thing that will end this process is that, no matter what happens, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey quickly and rapidly returns to an understanding that represents and protects the will of the people. Thank you, with all due respect.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0019par0088	Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0020par0090	I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture and Petting: all our farmers, producers, animal-making brothers in our country are in a very difficult situation. When are you going to make half the gas money that's going to bring down our farmers' costs? If you don't do it, we'll do it as the Republican People's Party. We'll give our farmer the diesel without tax. Two: because of the closed grape market of Denizli, or Buldan, or the south, or the south, or the dry grapes of the Honaz, or the grape market of Russia, he cannot sell his grapes. He has to sell his grapes under the cost. When are you going to give market support to the apple and grape maker, to our pomegranate maker, to the melon maker of Tavas? Three: As our livestock manufacturers have to sell their meat and milk under its cost, they can't get the milk money from the companies they sell on time. We want this followed, given market support to our farmers who give meat and milk. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0021par0094	Mr. Turpcu, instead of Mr. Kayishoglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0022par0097	Our questions to our Minister of Energy: The government's local source, the emphasis on local coal, are in almost every conversation. At this point, what studies have been made about how much coal the planned thermal power plants in Zonguldak would need year-on-year, which furnaces would be supplied from what furnaces, how many years these furnaces could supply coal to a thermal plant, whether they had sufficient reserves for this? What will your ministry's policy on thermal power plants that run on imported coal be like in the coming years? Two: Privatisation will not only tear Zonguldak and TTK (TTK) apart, but will turn Zonguldak (Zonguldak) from head to toe, into the hell of coal-burning thermal plants. We also think that this privatisation is only about the construction of thermal power plants. For the future of imported coal, the local coal will not work for its expensive future.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0021par0099	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0023par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Just ten days ago, despite the bans of AKP power, the Republic and its achievements are under systematic attack. Today, our state's presence is the crown crown that targets its republic and its founding values. We have learned that Turkish Airlines, not the AKP dictatorship, but the voice of press workers, bowing before its people and readers, delivers a newspaper that does business to the founder of this country, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. It is unacceptable that a newspaper that insults Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the republic and its values is being distributed for free to a public-owned organization. This newspaper, which Turkish Airlines has distributed in its planes and backed up, is powered by the systematic attacks of power towards the republic. But remember, what you call secularism is the guarantee of freedom in this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0024par0105	Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0025par0107	Thank you. It's World City Day. Unfortunately, we have cities in our country. Are we talking about buildings that the Turki had stabbed like daggers into the side of his side, or are we talking about the destruction of the Bank of Provinces today, about the purpose of being flooded, about the destruction of the northern forests, about the destruction of the Traveling Park? Which one should we talk about? I'd like to talk to you about something else today. A company started construction in the garden of the Pissy Industries School of Professionals. Yeah, they're building a school yard. Is it possible to talk about the city, urbanism, science, human beings? Right now, in the garden where the students play, a company close to the government has begun construction. You can't make schoolyards for other people. Take your hands off the skewer-industrial high school.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0026par0111	Mr. Star...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0027par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. Aydın is a province of 1,100,000 people. 1,350 people work at Adnan Menderes University Hospital, with a staff of 350, a thousand subcontractors. Think of it, this hospital serves 17 districts of Aydın, 36 villages, 496 villages, and Denizli and Muğla. The hospital is now at a loss of 700,800,000 lira every month. In my opinion, three months from now, he will be in no position to serve our people unless Minister of Health Adnan gives Menderes these positions. We already have hospital problems in Aydın, we don't have city hospitals, we have two public hospitals, we have 1 SEC and 1 million 100,000 people. We also need to consider the patients from Mudla and Denizli. We've looked into it, but other universities are given 75 percent of the staff. Think about it. There are 25 percent staff at the University of Aydın. I'm calling from here to the Minister of Health, requesting a staff immediately.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0026par0115	Mr. Turkmen...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0028par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. There is a thermal plant in the district of Tuftbeyli, Adana Province, Turkey. Unfortunately, there are allegations that this thermal plant was operated in accordance with the law, and therefore, because of the waste that the thermal plant spreads to the Hurlbrain, especially in nearby villages, that there are serious health problems, that the water is contaminated, and that the ash that this thermal plant releases is randomly disposable, and that the agricultural fields and water is contaminated. In this regard, I'm asking the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, what's he planning to do? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0029par0121	Finally, Mr. Grandson, please.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0030par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. In October, the Interior Minister issued a bulletin citing austerity measures and linked the leave of all mayors abroad to his own permission. It appears that the AKP is holding a reckoning within its own municipalities. The CHP municipalities, which sided with this reckoning, are suffering a great loss. The costs of presidents who go abroad to represent, present their municipalities, sign sister city projects, find resources or develop relationship networks are often covered by inviting institutions and mayors. Mr. Secretary has all the authority. Let him explain to the mayors who have direct or indirect links to ا, who have helped this terrorist organization, who have transferred the resources of their municipality to them, who have used them, and who have made it necessary. This is nothing more than making others pay for the mistakes and irresponsibility made by the AKP's government. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We wish that this practice, which violates the right to freedom of travel and human rights guaranteed in the Constitution, should end immediately.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0031par0130	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Akçay, you're in the system, and I'll give you my word for two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0032par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. The operation was launched by US support and YPG to clean up the city of Rakka, Syria. Let's do an operation of Turkey for the United States together. The call has been rejected. In contrast, the United States is among the public reports that in this operation, the terrorist organization has delivered state-of-the-art weapons. After the operation, we point out who has the weapons and where they're being used. Although the YPG is said not to enter the Rakka, we see traces of a new state formation with US support in the north of Syria. On the one hand, the area's resources are left to the PYD, while on the other hand, ethnic cleansing in the region's population is diversified. The region's main watering dams are controlled by the grain depository, NGD, and the area's main watering dams. Turkey must reintegrate its initiative with Operation Firat Shield in the region. Otherwise, a construction in the corridor leading north of Iraq to northern Syria will be opened. In addition, the operation to cleanse Mosul (Musul) from ISIS has changed balances in Iraq. Operations carried out in Iraq as an excuse for the removal of some regions from ISIS have been placed in the areas where the ISIS was cleared. In particular, it is remarkable that US Defence Minister Carter has pointed out that ISIS will be removed from Rakka, and delivered to the PYD.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0033par0140	Please complete, Mr. Akchay. I'll give you one minute more time.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0032par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. However, as a whole, it is noted that Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has entered areas that have been wiped out of ISIS and that attacks on Turkmen have been carried out. Iraq's policy on the government's angst is breaking down, and the Turkmen remain under the rubble. The Turkmen presence in Iraq is definitely threatened. The 1,000-year-old Turkish city of Kerkuk (Turkish) Barzanimization project is being carried out one step at a time, and we draw attention to it. We point out the headquarters of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Türkmen district Tuzhurmatu, and again, we draw attention to PKK headquarters 15km away from Kerkuk, and I complete my statement by drawing attention to the PKK corridor, which is intended to be established in the lane leading from Sincar to Telafer. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0034par0147	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. That brings us to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Children lead the most negatively affected groups from August 16, 2015 to 20 cities in 7 cities today, which have started with curfews declared 56 times without legal housing. 71 of the 405 civilians who lost their lives during the conflict are children. Children who have not lost their lives continue to live their lives in intense conflict and suffer severe trauma. In the war environment, children can't continue their schools, but they can't prepare for tests such as LYS and YGS, which will be conducted throughout Turkey and will determine the future of children. Under Articles 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Code, we demand and demand that parliamentary research be opened on the protection of children from violence, the discrimination and inequality of children. [[Mardin]] 2) Meral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Pain]] [[Pain]] 6) The Leader of the Secret [[Ankara]] 7) Ayşe Acar Başaran [[Batman]] 8) Mehmet Ali Aslan [[Batman]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hakkari]] 22) Mehmet Emin Adıyaman [[Lug]] [[İstanbul]] The UN Children's Rights Prohibition has been focused on the UN Convention's prescribing ban on discrimination, and it has been emphasised that the rights and freedoms in the contract have the right to benefit from race, color, language, religion, political or other opinions, including national or social origins, property, natural or otherwise, without any distinctions. The 6th article states that each child has a basic right to live, and the 7th article requires that the entity states make the maximum effort possible for the survival and development of the child. The UN Declaration on Protection of Women and Children in the State of Emergency and Armed Conflict stated that attacks and bombings against civilian populations and children would be strictly banned and punished, given a separate location from civilian populations and children in "extraordinary situations in which there is a struggle for peace, autonomy and independence." Any effort to protect women and children from the horror of war is the obligation of states under Article 4 of the same declaration. Again, according to the sixth article, women and children cannot be deprived of their housing, food, medical aid, or other indispensable rights. In the current picture, however, it is clear that homes have been in ruins over the past two months of violent curfews, with serious food shortages, especially children's rights to live in health, education, and peace. Again, if you look at the areas in which the curfew was imposed, children exposed to violence seem to be discriminated against in terms of language and social origin. Maybe the kids are the ones who need to be convinced to keep the peace of society. In 2006 and 2007, special officials will be seen in severe criminal courts that the trial of 1,688 children on charge of "terrorism" has not contributed to peace after a review ten years later. Any violence caused by children waking up from their sleep today is a result of deeper social injuries in the future. Teachers have been officially suspended from Cizre and Silopi since 14 December 2015, but in many districts of the region, education services, education and teaching have not been officially given since September 2015. TEOG, which took place all over Turkey from November 25th to November 26th, was postponed twice due to curfews in Nusaybin, followed by a sudden without sufficient information prior to January 7-8th. Conflictal processes also cause students to lose their school life. Given Turkey's obligations stemming from national and international legislation, we demand that parliamentary research be opened to determine or minimize the problems caused by children's abuse. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully propose the opening of Parliamental research under the Constitution's 98th and Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution of the 98th and 104th and 105th Articles to investigate violations against the fundamental rights of educators and academics, particularly freedom of expression. 1) Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir [[İstanbul]] 2) Meral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Pain]] [[Pain]] 6) The Leader of the Secret [[Ankara]] 7) Ayşe Acar Başaran [[Batman]] 8) Mehmet Ali Aslan [[Batman]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hakkari]] 22) Mehmet Emin Adıyaman [[Lug]] [[İstanbul]] Many educators and academics today have expressed their concerns about the violation of the basic rights of civilian citizens, especially by using the right to freedom of expression, guaranteed by constitutional and international contracts. As academics and researchers of 1,128 academics from Turkey and abroad, we will not be a party to this crime! Unfortunately, this time the academics were targeted by state officials, especially President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, after they issued a peace call demanding that the state end its violence against its citizens. In the same way, the leaders of a number of criminal organizations who took courage from state officials have placed academics on the target board. For example, today, in his statement to the press, Sedat Peker has dared to say, "We will shed blood and shower with your flowing blood." An internationally recognised academics, such as Noam Chomsky, David Harvey, Etienne Balibar, Judith Butler, Immanuel Wallerstein, are also among the signatories of the declaration, which has been issued by the Academics for Peace, calling on the state to be the guardian of civil rights in the region, especially in violation of its rights. The insult of academics who advocate constitutional rights by the President, who is in charge of the implementation of the Constitution itself, makes academics a target, paves the way for hate crimes. In addition to violating the rights of educators and academics who call for peace, such as life, housing, freedom of expression, business guarantees are also threatened. The educators and academics are becoming unable to teach freely, and they are concerned about job guarantees. For example, Prof., who signed the declaration issued by the Academics for Peace Initiative, contrary to the Higher Education Staff Act of Abdullah Gul University. Dr. News has come to the press that he's asked for Tanju's resignation. Following the president's aim, RCC President Yekta Sarac called an emergency meeting of the General Assembly in the same day, acting as an opinion crimes tribunal, claiming that signatories support terrorism, and in violation of the law, called on the chairmanship of the Inter-United Assembly and the rectors to take office. At the moment, professors at universities are being called to resign in a row, forced to retire. The International Convention on Personal and Political Rights, adopted by the United Nations in 1966 and took effect in 1976, guarantees the freedom of expression of many radical texts, such as the European Convention on Human Rights. Institutions such as the European Union, the United Nations, the Council of Europe and UNESCO have also published many reports and recommendations on academic freedoms. The Lima Declaration, referring to United Nations treaties, describes academic freedom as the right of all members of the academic environment to carry out their functions without any distinction and without any concern of interference or pressure from the state or any other source. Freedom of expression is at the top of the most important rights in today's democratic law states. In accordance with the positive obligation of the Republic of Turkey, it must not interfere with the use of freedom of expression according to its negative obligation to provide the environment needed for freedom of expression. Unfortunately, today, freedom of expression is clearly violated in order to suppress opposition to power. In particular, this pressure on educators and academics threatens the basic values of education. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Throughout Republic history, the religious structure and stance of the State's Head of Religious Affairs, shaped according to the official religious ideology, differentiates all other religious and religious communities, particularly our citizens of Alevi. It is the red line of the "Dianets of Diyanetin" by the president of the Religious Affairs, as well as the ongoing policy of the Diets, which excludes the Alevis. We offer and propose that the Parliament's research be opened in order to investigate and prevent the role of our citizens in their democratic demands on the basis of faith, in order to investigate and prevent the distortion of them. [[Gaziantep]] [[Diyarbakır]] 3) Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] 11) Burcu Çelik Özkan [[Mwah.]] [[Siirt]] [[Siirt]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Tunceli]] [[Van]] 23) Tuğba Hezer Özturk [[Van]] Since the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, governments have established the state's official religion policy through the chairmanship of Religious Affairs. This official religious policy is based on one religion, not only does it reject all other sects and beliefs and the forms of worship that they require, but it insists on either inclusion or inclusion. "Divineism is a cult within Islam. His sanctuary could be a mosque." Such rhetoric, which is constantly expressed by official sources, demonstrates this policy in a concrete way. Alevi citizens fight against these policies that exclude and prohibit their faith and worship and express their demands in this direction on all democratic grounds. At the time when the demands of this struggle were made visible and this directional social sensitivity was created, the President of Religious Affairs suppresses the demands of Alevi citizens with highly antidemocratic and offensive explanations and declares them illegitimate. The final revelations by Diet President Mehmet Gormez reveal this attitude once again. "We can't give religious status, only those who own the status of this road can determine it. We've always had two red lines, we've never given up on this: one is that Alevim is described as a road outside of Islam; and the second is that the mosque of the mosque of the mosque of the mosque of the mosques is made to look like a temple of another faith." His statement has once again shown that the Ministry of Religious Affairs has acted with an antidemocratic, religious and religious understanding that ignores freedom. The president of the Diabetes Departments can't worship in his own temples, and the state can't recognize legal status in its houses. He made it clear that the democratic demands of Alevi citizens are "red lines" of diabetes. The statement of the blind person violates the principle of secularism by ignoring the fact that "the state has decided what is to be considered religion, worship and worship." For centuries, Alevi have held their meetings in their temples, and they do not see it as an alternative to the mosque. All places of worship are sacred to the flames, but they consider their houses sacred to them. Despite the Constitutional arrangement of the power and responsibilities of the President of Religious Affairs, the principle of "unsolidity and solidarity and integration of the nation" in accordance with the principle of the Constitution's Article 136. It is a democratic, secular and social law state." It appears that he is not acting in harmony with his principle. On the contrary, he's a separatist, sectarian who acts only in accordance with official state religion and ideology. There is no service or work for different religious and religious groups in the community. His statement shows that Turkey does not have a liberal secularism and that the values of Alevi's faith have been ignored. After all, the Alevi have no demand to be compared to any other religion. The right to a sanctuary is a democratic right, one of human rights. Each group of believers has the right to define their own worship, their own place of worship. In a secular social state, the state can't determine a place of worship. In this scope, such as many democratic demands, the freedom of the Alevis to worship and the formal status of the Cemevos must be regarded as a right and evaluated in this way. Instead of religious understanding, a democratic line of secularism has to be determined that the person is compatible with freedom of faith. In this regard, legal regulations must be made in civil law, preventing, preventing the stance that obstructs the principle of democratic secularism. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Bostanci, you've entered the system. Here, I promise you for a minute according to the Civil Code 60.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0035par0330	Mr. President, thank you. I've been promised a brief explanation. Just now, a valued CHP deputy said there was an example of looting and looting that was being built in a schoolyard in Şişli. According to my research, the school he's talking about belongs to the Bulgarian Foundation. In 2014, under the agreement on the extradition of minority goods, they were given 59 acres of the foundation, which gave them 17 acres of the foundation to national education, and they have their own initiative on the remaining land. A job that has nothing to do with the state, with the AK PARTY, with this, that's the way it is. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0036par0333	Thank you. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Participation in the conference of TBM Foreign Commission President Taha Özhan, held in Meshhed, Iran, on October 24-27, 2016, is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly In Tokyo, Japan's capital city of Tokyo, on November 8, 11, 2016, the World Association of Public Employment Institutions and the Ministry of Japan's Ministry of Health, Labor and Prosperity will organise a study on "Augmenting the Participation of the Age and the disabled. The issue of accession to the study is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman All those in favor... those who do not accept... are in favor of a countermeasure. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 8/11/2016 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President 417, 419, 421, 425, 62, 360, 270, 24, 116, 138, 285, 390, 356, 357, 169, 105, 109, 355, 337, 361, 380 and 378 in the Commission's section, 62, 360, 270, 24, 116, 285, 396, 356, 169, 195, 105, 109, 355, 137, 361, 378, 380, 378, and the Constitution of the Civil Charter on the basis of Articles under Articles of Articles of Articles of the National Assembly of Turkey shall be brought to the Rights of the Constitution under Articles of the Grand National Assembly. On Tuesday (November 15, 2016), Article 6328 of the Law shall be carried out in accordance with Article 11 of the Commission for Proclamation and Human Rights Review Commission members. The election of the three candidates appointed by the Commission for Karma shall be held in accordance with the other votes in which the vote cannot be completed in the first vote; Apart from week-to-week working days, 18 November 2016 and 2 December 2016 are scheduled for Friday at 14 p.m. Meeting at 00 p.m. to discuss the agenda of the law drafts and proposals and other jobs from the Commissions; 15, 16, 17, 18, 22, 23, 24, 25, 29 and 30 November 2016, Tuesday (December 1, 2016), Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. To continue his work until 00; 417, 419, 421, 425 and 435 rows under the Code of Law, and its relationship to the Article 128 of the Civil Charter directly on the agenda according to Article 128 of the Constitution of Turkey, as well as by Article 91 of the Code of the Civil Code and by the basis of its divisions in the following ruler. It's recommended. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/445) I demand and demand that my main proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37 of the TBM Administration. 2/3/2016 İstanbul MP Barış Y Friend, who wants to speak on the motion, is the owner of the proposal. Here you go. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0037par0381	Dear friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. This motion will undoubtedly be discussed, discussed, and lawmakers will express their views on it. But I'd like to address another issue today that should shake and shake the country's agenda. Look, I have a graph. This graph doesn't contain any pictures, we've painted a representation. Why? Because 30 students of the imam-hatip high school have been harassed in Adıyaman, Gerger district of Adıyaman Province for two years, and with an investigation at the end of this harassment, one client has been arrested, and three others have been replaced. After I received this information yesterday, I spoke to our Adıyaman Gerger County President, and I saw that our Gerger County President was under a lot of pressure. Because he brought it up, the journalist who wrote the news, who said that 30 children were harassed in Adıyaman, and our district president were pressured by the police and the prosecution. After we brought it up, a known tactical agenda was put on the agenda, and immediately all news coverage was banned on the Internet. Right now, no one can read or learn that 30 children were harassed in Adıyaman, and that's why one of my clients was arrested. I've got a court decision here, and it's not clear why that decision was made. The situation where the media is being brought in today in Turkey is this, and we're living in this: look, friends: it's a black picture. Let us show our friends again: 30 children are being harassed in Adıyaman. We're writing this, we're writing websites, and those sites are immediately shut down by court order. After that, Turkey is sadly condemned to such a black picture. Of course, we know what this censorship is made of. In particular, we are also aware that recent operations against opposition journalists have also been carried out so that such news will not be heard. In Adıyaman, Turkey's imam-hatip high school is under pressure by the power of the prosecutor's hand, by police to prevent it from hearing that 30 children have been harassed. One of the sites that was shut down yesterday is the website of the Republic newspaper. This article can no longer be read in the Cumhuriyet daily, it can't be read in the Universal, it can't be read in the Light, no one can read it in the National Canal, because the court has stopped it with a arbitrary decision. That's why there's pressure on the Republican newspaper. You want to make sure no one hears what's going on in Turkey, and no one hears what's going on in Turkey. That's why you ordered an operation against Cumhuriyet daily on false charges and arrested nine of our fellow journalists without any evidence. You asked our fellow journalists what they wrote and what they wrote. Even though there was no connection between the terrorist organization and the terrorist organization PKK, you tried to discredit Cumhuriyet daily with the support of the media. But we know why the Republic newspaper was targeted. The Cumhuriyet daily is a newspaper in the face of the constitutional dictatorship, which is being imposed under the name of the one man, in other words, the presidential and presidential regime. That's why you want to silence the Republic, that's why you're pressuring the Republic newspaper. You're targeting the Republican newspaper so that the harassment in Adıyaman will not be heard. The Cumhuriyet daily has actually paid for your editions with a headline on Saturday; see, the Republican newspaper says that you will be ashamed in front of history.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0038par0387	Who's gonna be embarrassed? Shame on the Republic!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0037par0388	I think that those who practice this practice will not only be ashamed, but also answer in front of history. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0038par0391	Shame on the Republic!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0039par0392	İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu has asked for a statement on behalf of a member of parliament. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0040par0394	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on Law Proposal 2/445. I salute you all with respect and love. We'll discuss the bill later, and it'll be voted shortly, but I want to point out the situation Turkey is in. Turkey's situation since 15 July is truly, in terms of democracy, pathetic for the state of law. The Justice and Development Party government is dragging the July 15 coup attempt and the common will after which, unfortunately, Turkey is dragging it into a deadlock that is pushing democracy away from the principles of the state of law and suspending it. The picture of human rights, which has appeared since July 15th, is a very clear sign of that. As of last week, after the July 15 coup attempt, I shared a broad framework of human rights violations in Turkey, and I will not enter them again, but the events of the last week, especially the arrest of the Cumhuriyet daily, the position of the judiciary, and finally the detention of lawmakers who are members of this Parliament, have weakened Turkey's ability to resolve arrests and Turkey's problems under the roof of this Parliament. Dear friends, I've read two and a half pages of grounds regarding the Republic newspaper. That's a two and a half-page reason -- for the record here -- is a document of shame in the history of justice in Turkey, a disgrace in the history of the law, and they will be written in the future as a real shame. Cumhuriyet daily's publishing policy is determined by the Cumhuriyet daily's broadcast board, not by a judge or at the palace or at other centers, but by that decision, it seems that the broadcast policy is no longer allowed to live in Turkey to broadcast organs that are not directed from certain centers. Nearly 200 broadcasters have been shut down in Turkey, more than 140 journalists are in prison, and writers with a conscience, pencils with Turkey's honour, are now inside. They may not agree with us, they may disagree, but as long as he doesn't resort to violence, unless he proposes violence, every thought must be free, but as of today, unfortunately, it's impossible to express them. On my side, even our questions are now the issue of criminal charges from the Ministry of Interior, even the political activities we do here, the prosecutors pass over, they don't see the crime, the Ministry of Internal Affairs considers what they don't see as a crime and sends it away as a crime. Why? There are no other questions, no other reason, against the Home Secretary. Dear lawmakers, the second fact is that the events of 1994 have reanimated in this Parliament. You reminded the Kurds of the trauma of a parliamentary speaker, a group of vice presidents who talk here every day, bowing over their heads like in 1994, and getting into the car. This trauma was never incinerated, but now you've caused this pain again.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0041par0399	Terror, not Kurds.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0040par0400	Secondly, my dear friends, look, the Constitutional Court has a verdict. I criticize most of the Constitutional Court's decisions, but the Constitutional Court has a decision from Balbay and others in Turkey, a violation of rights. You have your opinions on this decision, and you have the opinion of Mehmet Ali Şahin, who eventually served as Speaker of Parliament, yet not a single word has come out of your mouth. The absence of this group in this parliament would cause great trouble ahead of this Parliament's work. Look, dear friends, the European Court of Human Rights has a decision on the 10% threshold. He didn't make any breaches in that decision, but there are very important emphasises on the right of free elections, very important emphasises. If you shut down your right to representation in Parliament and appoint trustees to municipalities, if you put lawmakers in a position where they can't act as MPs in Parliament, you will cause other possibilities to take effect. The European Court of Human Rights pointed out this danger about ten years ago. Look, for the first time, the United Nations wrote that it was wrong, not on the basis of human rights, but on the political basis. Please, I'm asking you, as someone who follows this issue, who is in favor of the integrity of Turkey, who is in favor of equality, who has opposed terrorism under any circumstances: Please think with common sense, because Turkey is not on the brink of the cliff, it is rapidly rolling into the abyss. My respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0042par0404	Thanks to you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0040par0405	Shameless man, always shameless.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0043par0406	I submit to your votes the motion to be brought directly to the agenda according to Article 37 of the Civil Code: Those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0042par0407	Thanks to you, thanks to you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0040par0408	You're a disgrace, you're a disgrace, you're a disgrace, you're a shameless man and you're a disgrace! That's gonna go down in history.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0042par0409	You're a disgrace. The word shame is not enough in your house. You can't even be a disgrace! You're a disgrace, a shame.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0044par0410	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0040par0411	You're a shameless man, okay?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0044par0412	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0045par0413	Your face is black, black.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0040par0414	We're talking here, you can't wait a moment. You can't wait a minute, you can't wait two minutes, you can't stand it.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0045par0415	Of course I can't wait, you're lying, you're lying from start to finish.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0046par0416	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0040par0417	Would you please warn your fellowman and his fellowman?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0046par0418	Please, I'm telling you both the same way.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0040par0419	It's not me, it's him attacking me on the stand.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0046par0420	Mr. Godkulu, you've finished your speech, so sit down. Dear Metiner, please...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0040par0422	You're going to tell him.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0046par0425	Members of parliament have just made a statement on the bench, particularly about Adıyaman, my constituency district. Mr. Yüskül, I must express in particular that if there is a confidentiality decision here, it is not a decision made by a government or any administrative agency, it is the decision made by the judicial authorities and the main reason for this decision...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0040par0427	Mr. President, we know which politics dictated the verdict; we know about us, we know about the Republic newspaper, we know all about it. We also know today that the court has a stick under the government's command.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit01spe0046par0428	... And you'll appreciate that it's not right to convict people, to offend children, families once again, when there's still such a claim, when the sizes of this claim are not clear, yet, in some way, in some way, in some way, in some way, in some way, in some way, in some way, in some way, in some way, in some way, in some way, in some way, in some way, in some way, in some way, in some way, in some way. Second: As soon as this incident was heard, the relevant authorities took action, as soon as this claim was brought forward, there were administrative and judicial investigations immediately conducted, all measures that needed to be taken were taken and transactions were carried out on the alleged person. Of course, if there is such a thing, it's the will and desire of all of us to go all the way. It's not acceptable. The people involved in the most severe punishment should be punished, but without any results yet, in this context, considering the well-being of concerned families and children, I think it's not the right way to express it without being exposed, in this way, now, without condemning it. Both the Ministry of Family Education and Adıyaman Governorate are taking all the necessary measures. The judicial process continues. It's psychological and they're getting all the support. We wish and hope that justice will be served. If there is, that's the kind of thing that goes all the way. I'm saying that we should all be followers of this, in that sense, in the same way. Thank you, and I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0046par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 17th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question proposals and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will begin the talks of Turkey's Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Court of Justice, which has been ranked in the first place, with measures to be taken into account under the State of Emergency, 668, and of the Court of Law (748) and the Court of Justice of Justice on the Order of Some Institutions and Institutions (748). The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 417 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this decree shall be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after negotiations on all of the provisions of the law have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, the chapters will be discussed, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. The one who wants word on the entire rule of law...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0047par0011	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0046par0012	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0047par0013	According to Article 60 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0046par0014	I'll give you a minute according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0047par0018	Mr. President, thank you very much. Our House has visitors today. They just met with Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı and Mr. Foreign Minister. A valuable district organisation of the Republican People's Party from the Macedonian Immigration Association and Saruhanlı has all paid a visit to Gazi Parliament. The July 15th coup attempt has been seen in parts of the coup attempt that date that have had bad memories for all of us, but is very important to our democracy. From the land where Ataturk was born, they are at the center of this national will, which gives the title of "Marshal" to the Parliament. We, the Republican People's Party group, salute them once again, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0046par0021	We welcome them to our Parliament and thank them. Yes, Republican People's Party MP Haluk Pekşen is calling on the name of the Republican People's Party to speak on the whole rule of law. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0048par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a promise to present the views of the Republican People's Party group on an unusually intense agenda, on a ruling of a law. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, we're going through a period where there's no warning, even between the laws of the law. The decree that came in yesterday's decree of the law and the decree that came in today do not match. Why? The decisions made yesterday are being taken back today. That's how it was yesterday, that's how it is today. Yesterday is yesterday, today is today! His legal contradictions continue. Now look, the Constitutional Court has decided that under this decision, the Constitutional Court remains, and Turkey's legal state and order remains. The Constitutional Court's decision is that it will not be able to oversee the provisions under the rule of law in accordance with the Constitution. This decision is a painful, dramatic decision that does not coincide with the decisions of all human countries, who have assumed that the rule of law is dominant in my country by the established decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. In 1991, the same Constitutional Court saw in itself the right and authority to examine whether or not the provisions in the rule of law were in accordance with the law's purpose, whether or not they were allowed to abide within the scope of the State of Emergency and within the limits of the law, and today the same Constitutional Court has ruled, but today, the same Constitutional Court is returning from its past state of law. Why did you come back? Why did you come back? Have the concepts of law and law changed in human history? Have you changed your authority, your duty, why are you there? It is our understanding that the Constitutional Court's decision to withdraw from this court and not to review the provisions of this law has been touched by structural changes in the Constitutional Court. This is not new, and ever since 1999, continued interference and constant changes in the institutions of the state have come to a dramatic point that includes the Constitutional Court today. Honored MPs, the situation has become so dramatic that I would like to share with you a regulation of the ruling that was discussed today. According to our Constitutional Court, it is a constitutional right to take public office, but according to the ruling of the law ahead, this right is being eliminated. Now, what will the Constitutional Court say if we take the right to public order taken from people in this decree, under which State of Emergency will they place it? What does this have to do with the State of Emergency? I'm asking, waiting for an answer. Despite the open arrangement of the Constitutional Court, the restrictions imposed on various public duties must be cancelled and cancelled by the Constitutional Court. Under this law, a ban has been made from public services for life. However, there is a security measure in Article 53 of our penal code, which is sanctioned. This is the only thing that applies to that sanction during the sentence. So, what happens in the ordinance? It's becoming a lifetime. Is that even possible? The laws of the law were limited only to the state of emergency. Here you go. Can the Constitutional Court say such a thing, I can't examine it, I don't have the authority? Is there an explanation for this? I'll tell you what's more dramatic. I'm really gonna give up. Yesterday the D.A. made a decision. I assure you the Supreme Court's decision hasn't yet been made by public opinion, which means the public hasn't yet reflected, but I'm going to brief you on the verdict. Look, the Supreme Court of State yesterday -- I mean the Supreme Court -- and I'm saying to the High Council and our people out of kindness, I assure you, take this as a torpedo to them -- there is no discrepancy in the court against the decision of judges and prosecutors to expel. These cases should be held in the administrative court, he says. In the context of the decision, it emphasises that the judicial path to export decisions is closed. In 2011, however, the Constitutional Court has opened its way to the Constitutional Court against the decision to issue a constitutional amendment. But the D.A. is acting like he doesn't know about it. Why is he acting like he is? I'd like to continue with him now. Although the Constitution has opened its judicial path to canceling after the 2011 amendment, the provisions of the law have been decided that it is not appropriate for the judges and prosecutors to remain in the profession and to be removed from the profession. Here it is cheating against the law because the Constitution has opened its way to export, but if it is decided that it is not appropriate for them to remain in the profession, you cannot appeal to the judiciary. So, what's the point of letting them stay in the business? Despite all measures, the judge cannot complete his vocational promotion, cannot be appointed, so the decision to stay in the profession is removed, and he is suspended by the HSYK. Now, since this HSYK has been discharged in decisions, it will go to the State for exports, as has been in a lot of precedent decisions in the past, which is that no judge, even without his defenses, will be able to cancel all of this on the grounds that the prosecutor can't be discharged from the job and the prosecutor can't be discharged, a film like this will apply to the frilly business. Guys, it's the Court. Look at the trick against the law. He says it's not export. He says the decision to stay here in the profession has been lifted. I give up! So, what's the deal with these people later? And since those who have been removed from the profession will have been banned from public service, neither those who have been expelled nor those who have been harmed in their employment will ever again be able to return to law enforcement. Can such a trick be done? How could a supreme court do this? On what grounds? All right, let's move on. Honourable lawmakers, we have one more crucial issue ahead of us, sitting on Turkey's agenda: MPs, detention. Really, we emphasise that we are a state of law, that we apply the law to everyone equal, fair, and unconditional, and we try to be strict about it. Now, you see, the great Parliament is making a decision, we like it, we don't like it, we oppose it or we don't, the decision has been made to remove the immunity of lawmakers. In that case, we, Parliament, must first obey our own laws. We can't invite others to follow a law we won't abide by. Just like Socrates said. From Socrates until now, those who speak the truth continue to speak. We'll all follow the law. Failure to obey the law, defying the law, unfortunately, has been described as a virtue of AKP power. Those who said, "I don't know the law." Those who refused to go to the courts, and refused to testify, said, "I don't know the law." Look, none of us -- neither of us -- or the president -- have the privilege of not knowing the law. Everyone swears here that they are equal in the eyes of the law and that they will fulfill their responsibilities in the face of the law, in the eyes of judges and judges. That's a fact. However, it is not a legal arrangement for many MPs to be subjected to an immediate incident with the culture of smuggling from a fire and to be immediately arrested and eliminated from their parliamentary duties at the same time at the same time. This is political, and the previous is political. There's no room for politics and there's no judgment. Those who don't know the verdict have made the same mistake, those who use judgment as a stick and arrest members of a political party have made the same mistake. That's not what I'm saying, it's the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court says that the arrest of an MP is a favour to prevent the Turkish nation from fulfilling constitutional rights and convictions. Naturally, the arrest should not be used as a measure of lawmakers unless a ruling on him is finalised. With this dignity, our friends in Parliament, lawmakers must look at these two criteria and value them. 1) We must obey the law with no distinction, no compromise, and no avoidance. 2) The law is no one's bat, nor should it be allowed to be used as a bat. The arrest of MPs is also a political decision in this sense, that a legal decision is more contrary than the Constitution's previous convictions, which is wrong. Honourable lawmakers, we, of course, want to continue as lawyers to stress our country's claim to the state of law. And while we're doing that, the laws that come our way, unfortunately, are pushing as much limits as possible. As a lawyer, I'm having a really hard time trying to figure out what to say about these things. See, here, especially in the regulations made in the ordinance of the law, some of the evidence collected, the procedures of the evidence obtained, the use of the evidence, the trials, the investigations, and prosecutions of these cases have been staged. Rest assured, none of you are safe. Neither the ordinance nor the State of Emergency have anything to do with the arrangements here. See, from the way the evidence was obtained to the way the evidence was used, all of the established chambers are suspended. In the gathering of these evidence, basic rights and freedoms, basic rights and freedoms within constitutional borders, and fundamental rights and freedoms that are not allowed to intervene in the law enforcement process are also suspended. And how long will these suspensions last? Is it within the duration of the State of Emergency, or can it continue forever? Whoever has the power can go on as long as he wants. Why? Because the Constitutional Court has authorized it. I'm afraid everyone's trying to figure out how to get out of this kind of illegality right now. But with this modified structure of the Constitutional Court, I'd like to stress once again that it's not easy. Now, you see, precious lawmakers, there's one mistake we've always made here; everyone's negativity belongs to others. It's none of my business. These traffic accidents don't happen to me anyway. I don't get arrested anyway. I don't have a problem with the IRS anyway. This doesn't happen to me. I'm not going to the hospital. I don't have cancer. We all tell others these negatives with such confidence, but the law knows everyone, and we're all others. Look at our political history today, the law never forgets. In 2009, we were saying, "Oh, let it be in the cases of Balyoz and Ergenekon." We were saying, "You're going to need it." Today we tell all of you that you will need the law. Let me give you an example: He will come before you, and you will go to the High Council, and you will answer for it. I hope you won't be judged as you have been judged, and you'll be judged fairly. We'll be able to get you out in front of these people with the law, not the law. An example: has the National Intelligence Agency given you a list of names of 1,715? He did. Has he insisted that a legal process be carried out? He did. So, did you do anything about this 1,715? No. On the night of July 15th, were 1,715 people in the square with weapons? It was in the squares. So I ask you: What are you, if you are the government, why did you not take what this MIT has told you seriously, and why did you not honor them? Do you have the luxury of not taking this seriously? If you didn't, don't you have a legal responsibility? Aren't you going to answer? Isn't that neglect? Isn't that a heavy negligence, to say the least? And how do you become victims? I'm asking you, you've been in power for 14 years, you're not fulfilling any of your obligations, and you're leaning on the law-ordered way of breaking the law so you don't have to answer legally, but you're a potential victim. You're either a victim or you've been deceived. God forgive us. Amen. May God forgive you, but the law does not forgive, and I assure you, the law knows everyone. I would also like to address the judges that you think are of you today: all over the world, the judge is the one who decides according to his conscience, the one who decides according to his conscience; he is neutral, independent, and decides according to his conscience, but Turkey is not like that. Why? Now, the Chairman of the Supreme Court is coming out, so how can I make a statement in his name, out of respect for my profession, out of respect for you, as he put it... he's saying something -- no matter what kind of sentence you say -- he says: "Trust the judge has landed at 30 percent." I assure you, this is a bigger joke than the late Levent Kırca. There's nothing more to be said to you. At the beginning of his own trial, a Supreme Court chief says to me, "Trust 30 percent." And if he accepts that, it's yours, it's yours, thanks to you. So how do you sit there, how can you sit there? I just told you about the prosecution; look, the State is cheating against the law. What do we people on the street call it? We call it film, pinwheel. Well, the State Court, the Supreme Court would do something like that? What could be so shameful? Same thing, you're coming to the Supreme Court. How did we get here? Why has Turkey become like this? Look, look at the past, for God's sake, you've broken the human history record in ten years under the name of investigation. And in the last five months, there will be no one in the world who can ever break that record again. People want to be judged by the law, they don't want to be judged by intent. The penal code is not busy with people's purposes. Respected MPs, we don't care what people's purposes are; regardless of their intentions, whether they're from the community or whatever, I'm not interested in them at all, law enforcement and law enforcement are looking at practices, not purposes. If there's an act that the law considers a crime, and whoever did it, it's the law's job to hang on to it. He was a parishioner, he put money in the community bank, something like that, something like that, he's in there. Well, then I ask: Do you know the difference between valued lawmakers, arrested, convicted, discharged from the profession, discharged from public service, and not touched? So why are they arrested, why aren't they arrested, why are they on trial, why aren't they tried, do you know the distinction between them? Does anyone know? In a country where there's no legal security, the future is not planned, do you believe you can go home tomorrow, can you imagine not being handcuffed? Do you believe the congressman's security, immunity, supposedly, has been granted immunity from the bench? I'm sure none of you do. Have you ever seen a system in the world where no one can plan for the future, where people are judged without law, convicted under the appearance of trial, not basically convicted, but held captive by people? Can such a order work? The outcome of such schemes is obvious. These are their guiles. That's what happened in all the world's systems in the finals. In that country, very serious forces are tried to gather from certain hands so as not to give up power. And the whole struggle is that he'll hold on to power, and he'll try to stay in power, to hold on to power, but there's no one in the world who's ever been able to do it. Especially this founding Parliament, especially this High Council, would never allow such a thing. Look, let me tell you something very clear: On June 7th, the Republican People's Party told you that if you received 60 percent of the votes from this platform, you would not be able to rule because you are not using legitimate methods to stay in power. He said, "Come, lean on legitimacy." He said, "Listen to the expectations of legitimacy of this country, and let us relocate this country with the Republican People's Party." But you did not. After November 1st, you're in power on your own, you're glad, but you've lost. You're all seeing you lose big today. Why? Because you know you're not legit. Even the voters who voted for you are just threatening you, just pressuring you, resorting to illegal methods and methods to protect you. Why? Because he's legitimate, he's defendable, behind your power, and they can't carry that legally justified claim either.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0049par0048	We're legit, all the way!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0048par0049	Honourable MPs, legitimacy is accountability, accountability! A government without accountability is not legitimate. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0049par0052	It's your understanding of opposition that's illegal.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0050par0053	Congressmans, please. Mr. Sky, you've entered the system. I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0051par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, I asked if the prosecutor in charge of the investigation into the Cumhuriyet daily last week was a suspect in a case. About a few hours later, the prosecutor was reported to be the defendant of the Salam Tevhid case because of the case. The next day, Mr. Attorney General said it was unfortunate that the prosecutor was involved in the investigation. I asked Mr. Justice Minister on the same day if an investigation was launched into a journalist who did the report -- I mean, that prosecutor is the prosecutor of the Salam Tevhid case -- that he is a suspect in a case on which he is being tried, but that he is taking charge of the investigation of the Cumhuriyet daily. Mr. Minister of Justice said he'd take a look at it and give me some information. He later said: "There is no such investigation in my meeting with the Attorney General of the Republic of Istanbul. " Out of respect for a minister of the Republic of Turkey, as a party of state tradition, I hope so to Mr. Secretary. There's other information coming to us. I said. I hope you haven't been misled. We've entered the records. If there's any other information, it's a really bad picture. Sir, this came out. There is no investigation that day with the information that Mr. Minister received from the İstanbul Prosecutor's Office. I share with the Assembly the documents that were being investigated about a journalist he called. Now, which prosecution has misled a Minister of Justice in parliament against the question given by a group of vice presidents of the main opposition party? Why? The investigation has been launched, and when it comes to the matter of Congress, the case is immediately withdrawn. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Sir, it's important.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0052par0063	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0051par0064	Now, who is it that makes a Minister of Justice of the Republic of Turkey say that there is no such investigation in this Parliament? Is he still at work? Mr. President, how is this possible? I mean, who is it to give false information to a Minister of Justice, to make him talk like that here? Mr. Secretary says with information from the State's Attorney's Office of Istanbul. I have all the paperwork from the Istanbul Attorney's office in front of me. There's an investigation of the journalist involved as we speak at this time, and when the matter is moved to Parliament, he withdraws in a panic, but of course there's a record of the state. This painting is a heavy painting, a painting that needs to be repaired. We really want to know what kind of procedure will be made about those who misled the Minister in this matter, Mr. President. The government shouldn't be so screwed up.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0052par0065	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Bostanci, I'll give you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0053par0069	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Speaker, I listened carefully to Haluk Pekşen. For most of his 20-minute speech, he stressed the neutrality and independence of the law and accused us of disobeying it, and continued his criticism. In a speech of such deep sensitivity to the principles of law and independence, I consider it a tragic contradiction for the speaker to judge himself with enthusiasm and faith, by replacing all legal authorities, investigations, all parties. I got that promise for the record, thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0054par0073	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the groups, the second word on the whole belongs to Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0055par0080	Dear President, dear congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Actions to discuss the full extent of the Law's decree on the measures which must be taken under the State of Emergency 668, and on behalf of some Institutions and Institutions. I salute you all. Honourable MPs, you know, there's an absolute being who knows everything, sees everything, hears everything, and has power over everything. We are not the ones who believe. He is the Most High Creator. Hence, we, the elected representatives of the nation, should be aware of our authority and responsibilities and aware of the limited power we have. This fact applies to the legislature that we represent, as well as to the administration and the judiciary. What we're trying to say is that as much as it is at the center of our powers and responsibilities to address the problems of the country and our nation, we still do not consent to wrong, biased, unfair, and harmful practices in their behalf. So, when we express our political statements and predictions, we have to prioritize individual, ideological, or collective interests, rather than targets, the entire interests of Turkey and the Turkish nation. Now, on the one hand, on the 15th of July, this necipe must ask the nation to pay for what they've done; on the other hand, we must eliminate the victims of the law state and the line of justice without compromise. The biggest responsibility here is for those who exercise the authority to conduct a criminal and administrative investigation, which means that the property is a lot of work for judges and prosecutors, as well as for officials of the authorities of the establishment, bureaucrats and ministry. Congressmans, I believe it would be wise to take a short look at the past today in order to understand, comprehend and resolve the chain events that have caused serious domestic and external security problems in our country. Because I believe that history repeats itself as a result of similar conditions - our rhetoric, our actions, our success and our failures. In the second half of the 19th century, the Ottomans, described by the West as the sick man, are going through a very difficult process. For example, the date is occupied on August 26, 1896 and the Ottoman Bank in Istanbul. These are times when different ethnic and religious elements are constantly provoked by Western states. In particular, after the Treaty of Berlin, the Ottoman state was closely monitored, and at this time, some committees formed secret societies and completed their preparations for armed rebellion and rebellion. For example, the Armenakan Committee was the first to choose armed terrorism as a method in 1885. The Hnçak Committee established in Geneva in 1887, and the Taşnak Committee established in Tbilisi, 1890, implemented terrorism as a way to establish independent Armenia by providing European intervention. Such committees carried out riots that began in June 1890 and peaked in 1896. At this point, events have become an important foreign policy issue for the Ottoman state, and Western states have been enabled to intervene in this domestic issue, and their pressure policies on the Ottomans have increased. They did that through the press. We know that the similar attitude of the West continues, especially through the Teali communities, during the early years of the national struggle and republic. However, when we come to our closer history, we bear witness that similar things are happening in the process of the invasion of Iraq, which concerns Turkey closely. After the first Iraq operation, when the United States and British joint forces later turned into invasions in 1991, the pessimarchs, who fled the tyranny of Saddam (Saddam), were placed in the south of Turkey for security purposes at a time when we were led to believe that we could put in a few Hammer Powers and get 100. Instead, the Western media -- such as the BBC -- was told that international aid did not reach asylum seekers because it was looted by Turkish soldiers. The vision presented for this report was the soldiers who distributed bread that was made in temporary military ovens in the region. We see similar things today, such as a double standard of attitude and behavior. To give you a concrete example, the latest, you know, lawmakers, sir, when we look at the process of detention, the Western media actually offers a one-way projection. I'll never forget, I just happened to have a look at CNN International on Saturday. Istanbul has been connected live, and the sentence given by an Istanbul correspondent Ripley is as follows: "Sir, on one hand the Turks are fighting ISIS -- the terrorist organization we call ISIS, or the terrorist organization we call ISIS), and on the other hand they are fighting the Kurds. Believe me, my blood is frozen. I mean, you have a little compassion, and you really don't. "One is fighting the Kurds, one is fighting the Kurds." How righteous would that be? We're all capable of a rhetorical analysis, thank God in this House. What kind of terrorist organization is ISIS... if you're referring to an ethnic structure, you don't call it "Arabs" or "Muslims" or "Muslims," but why do you say "Kurdlers" to the other one, why are you trying to share provocative rhetoric with the world? There's no such thing, it didn't happen, and I resent it. Why did I give you these samples, or where would I try to get from here? Members of parliament, all political, strategic, cultural, economic, even military balances in the world are based on power, so power, as described in modern-day postmodern theories, manipulates and manipulates everything, including information. I mean, there's no value in saying that the world is greater than the world. So, in light of this painful world reality, as the state of the Republic of Turkey, we need to calculate what we need to do in this international arena. Similar attitudes and approaches may have changed the expression format, but they don't differ from a hundred years ago. The great game continues, the West remains uncomfortable with our presence in the region. Because ordinary people, people or society aside, Western states and forces have always been in a struggle or a reckoning with Turkey and the Turkish nation. In other words, since the first official or institutional encounter, the existence of the Turkish nation and state tradition in Anatolia has always been a nuisance and has triggered feelings of revenge in the West. Even under the most difficult conditions, the Turkish nation tried to do its due by staying large and alive. In other words, he endeavored to maintain our feature for a period of time by tightening the ranks so that the seeds of hypocrisy could not penetrate. The closest example of this is the national resurrection, which opposes invasion, land, and protection, by ruling against the laws of Sevr. By now, Turkey has been brought into a terror spiral, both outside and inside, especially in the last 14 years, with the help of not being well managed. A number of high-level explanations and confessions that riven this situation remain fresh in our memories. In that sense, the National Movement Party has actually done its part. Yesterday, it is a movement that always says that terrorism should be fought, not negotiated, but fought, that terrorism should be dried out at its source, or Kandil, or Kandil. But unfortunately, the people who covered that day are getting the headlines in the papers today. Sir, a wise ambassador of ours said: "In order for us to succeed in Başika, or in Mosul, we must intervene in the Kandil. " Three years have passed, and today our very wise ambassador has discovered that the real source, the real source, has discovered that the real contradiction is in Kandil.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0056par0087	He's said it before.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0055par0088	Well, now, look, as a member of a regular movement that says that, thank God we've got a clear head, we've got a clear face. Why? Because we said it was extraordinary, yes, inevitable. There should be a secure zone across the border, otherwise Turkey will be attacked by a massive migration. That's what we said, but today we're slowly expressing our regrets. What do we say? We made a mistake in Iraq, but we won't make the same mistake in Syria. In Iraq, we thought he was a friend, we trusted him, but today we almost made the same mistake in the PYD and YPG spiral, thank God we didn't. This is, really, an important step for Turkey, and we're not gonna get past that. What happened in Syria and Iraq, due to failure to make strategic moves that should have been done long ago, has been against Turkey. On the one hand, the PKK and its Iraqi and Syrian extensions, along with terrorist organisations such as ISIS and all these terrorist organizations, and the US, which provide logistical, military and diplomatic support, are trying to corner Turkey and isolate it internationally. I'd like to draw your attention to the latest examples that have gone too far. A decision made by the Belgian court is that, you know, in a PKK-related case, the terrorist organisation decides that it is a structure in combat and war. I mean, really, how can they explain this internationally? So how internationally acceptable are the government of the Republic of Turkey to al-Qaeda, who has done 9/11 in the United States, who is fighting a war, who is in search of rights? It's the same thing, isn't it? The Belgian court has made it very clear that there is no terrorist organization as a result of a PKK-connected case, trying to describe it as an organisation fighting in Turkey. The same attitude came from Germany. We've made demands, we've made demands in light of some international binding agreements. What did we say? We said: "Return and seizure of property of people related to you. " It is clear that we received negative answers in the same way. It is imperative that both the international community and the citizens in it remind them that the state of the Republic of Turkey is a state of law, with actions and decisions made, to convince them. In this context, the Turkish Cypriots need to be discussed and interpreted. So it is unethical to take advantage of emergency situations due to the need to make quick decisions and implement them under the State of Emergency, but not allow administrative and judicial authorities to take advantage of the situation when they need to take advantage of the emergency situations in which they should take advantage of the usual Parliamentary work and a number of central laws to be adopted by its decision. Administrators, bureaucrats, rectors and unit commanders who conduct administrative investigations must not go outside the constitutional limits or outside the law. The same goes for our prosecutors and judges who investigate. But in the past 15th of July to date, a number of practices, which have been conducted by the KHK, unfortunately, are causing some damages, rights violations. In the beginning, there is a number of charges against people in various ministries and institutions, including the Ministry of National Education, the Turkish Armed Forces, the Interior Ministry, without evidence, without evidence, with which people will be dismissed, dismissed, or convicted. In this case, the foreseeable reasons simply depend, as we all know, on water reasons such as union membership, enrollment in classrooms and private schools, or reading at the Bank, processing in Asia, newspaper, magazine subscriptions. Now, in that sense, we're getting really intense complaints. What's all this? I'm going to share some very concrete examples. I was in my hometown last week, a group of religious officials came in, Mr. Congressman, and, please, we've been suspended, we've been ordered to be extradited, but somehow the mufti master won't process it... Why? Wait. What's he waiting for? He's waiting for a decree under the law. Why? Because the decision to go back to work in front of the law isn't enough for Master Mufti. And he wants a warrant, and he's waiting for an offer. So, what was the charge? We worked against the AK PARTY in the election, he says. What else did you do? What were you going to say? I really want to express something very ugly that I've heard with my ears. Can a priest make a statement for a minister or a congressman who enters a mosque? We're all Muslims. We've got a minister among us right now, they've honored our window. Is that how we're going to ask for imams? Do we want an imam type telling us what God has commanded, telling us what He has commanded, or do we want an imam type who makes it look like a political arena and predates its own position? Now, of course, suicides have multiplied. Honourable lawmakers, these are really the things that are bleeding inside of us, and they're coming to you. Suicides multiplied. He hangs himself, he hangs himself, he hangs a teacher, he hangs a cop, he hangs a judge, he hangs soldiers. Well, there's a problem, then, in the process, in the wheel, there's something really against the law. We've got to figure this out, we've got to get rid of these victims as soon as possible. Sir, on the other hand, it's one of the other cases of political appointment, staffing and discrimination that could hurt the spirit of joint movement from common language and minimum partners in the government's Yenikapımı. So in the meantime, we're seeing new recruits, sir, like they're smuggling goods from the Talan. I witnessed this at a college opening last week. Look, I want to share it with you as an academic who worked for my university for 30 years. It was really a very emotional, very important thing for me to accept that invitation, but I'm afraid I didn't get a chance to make a statement at the opening of the University of Ataturk. From bureaucrats, from politicians by the government. Now, believe me when I'm at college, this college-building university, and I'm so involved with the PhD students that I've trained. I trained Izmir, Ankara, and many other universities in our region, but there was no opportunity to say two words. You know why? Because my presence there wasn't perceived as an academic entity, I'm afraid it was perceived as a political identity. The MP of the MHP, no matter how much he doesn't speak, we have an MP. So, dear lawmakers, I often want to express what we need to stress and apply: we need to tighten our ranks so that we don't forget that we're a democratic, social, legal state and we don't have to make it into a unitar state, we don't have to infiltrate. Because I say that there is no power to trust or refuge from this blessed state and this blessed land, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0057par0100	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Now, the first word for the individuals belongs to Istanbul MP Hursit Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0058par0105	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the State of the Law concerning the measures which must be taken under the State of Emergency 417, and to the provisions of the State of Emergency. I salute you all with respect and respect. Precious lawmakers, July 15th is the preservation of national will, national sovereignty, and the future of Turkey at the same time. At the very beginning of my speech, I want to thank all parties for taking a stand next to democracy against the coup attempt, no matter what the worldview, the ideology. Just after the coup attempt, I find the declaration written by all parties in the House as meaningful as everyone else. I believe our greatest gain is our national unity and unity, as it was on July 15th. Honourable lawmakers, to maintain democracy, the will of the nation, peace and public order must be constant. Where there's no public order, there's no point, there's no point. One of the main duties of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which the state, the government and the nation's will have is to take the necessary measures to maintain public order. In recent years, with the encouragement and planning of global forces, the last craze of evil forces who wanted to weaken our country, lower our reputations inside and outside, increase our bargaining share, ultimately tear down our country, a thousand-year-old state tradition, was the coup attempt of July 15th. After the July 15 coup attempt, we, as Turkey, issued decrees on the State of Emergency and the Law under the Article 119, 120 and 121 of our Constitution on measures against terrorist organisations. Respected MPs, extraordinary decisions must be made at extraordinary times. These decisions need to be taken at the speed of lightning and applied quickly. Public personnel and all terror elements, whose constitutional order, the threat of disrupting the state's democratic functioning, must be cleared of bureaucracy. In other words, it is unthinkable for the government to work together with bureaucracy, which is not loyal to the state. Honourable lawmakers, of course, we would ask that any political party be involved in political activities, be remembered for useful and useful activities for their country and nation, stand by national will and democracy, support Turkey, which is strengthened and growing, but if a political party is on the side of democracy, not by the side of human rights, but by the side of the person who kills people, there is no choice but to bring the law into play. In our opinion, the People's Democratic Party has pushed away the opportunity to do the politics they've been given. On June 7th, 80 lawmakers adopted a provocative, disruptive language instead of politics in Parliament with 60 MPs on November 1st and Turkey's party. However, according to the existing Civil Code, opposition parties have not been able to properly assess the opportunity to make more promises and more politics in parliament, according to the ruling party. See, in our political history, even though there are fewer HDP MPs in our history, we all know how much the Welfare Party has affected our political lives with 40 MPs, seven members of the Great Union, how much it has affected our political lives, without disrupting it, without breaking it, without breaking it, without spilling it, with the unity and unity of our nation. Despite a significant number in Parliament, HDP has not been able to openly and definitively condemn the terrorist organization's attacks; it has not developed any rhetoric with no terror in it, nor has the state been threatened. Thousands of Kurdish brothers in the region heroically resisted PKK's request for autonomy and left their homes, their homes, their homes, and their homes and their homes to take a stand against terrorism. Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) people's attitude has hurt most of their Kurdish brothers in the region. Unfortunately, those who do not hesitate to walk along with the rhetoric of fighting, ethnicism and violence in the politics of politics have not avoided the actions that led to the deaths of dozens of our heroes Turkish soldiers, our citizens, when they were attacked in Ankara by treason, who called the terrorist bodies on October 6th, when the bombs went off. In every sentence, a party that says "democracy" and goes by the name of democracy has failed to make politics by staying in democracy, which unfortunately has not produced politics. Instead of completing steps towards becoming a Turkish party, he chose to move the language of terrorism to the Veteran Assembly. Honourable lawmakers, as you know, we have removed the immunity of all lawmakers who have filed a motion to change the Constitution with the votes of our MPs here. HDP has already appealed to the Constitutional Court after the removal of immunity after speaking out loud, and the Constitutional Court has rejected this request -- you know it. The law is equal to everyone else. The law has written rules. If the law doesn't run these rules, there's no public order, no public authority. Other MPs, including HDP MPs, have even gone to testify at the invitation of the judiciary. HDP MPs rejected the court's invitation. Perhaps we were the most victims of judgment. In 1999, our founding president was investigated for reading a recommended poem by the Ministry of National Education, but I'm not coming. He didn't say, although he had a jail sentence, he didn't say, "I don't know the defendant." He didn't say, "I don't know the defendant." He stayed in Pınarhisar Prison, and he didn't raise hell.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0059par0118	I don't know the Constitution. He said. I don't know Anayasa. He said.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0058par0119	Again, as you all know, the decision in the 367 decision didn't apply to us, but in both cases, the nation put us in a different place, both with national will and with us. Members of parliament say the European countries advocate democracy and invite Turkey to democracy and are concerned. We don't need anyone's concern. We know very well who's doing what they're doing, and we know very well that Western countries are taking care of their own people, not democracy. (AK PARTY) If the PKK and its supporters are on the list of European countries for terrorism, they must stand up and condemn them aloud. We all know the legal norms in European countries. I'd like to remind you that a mayor in Spain was arrested last week for not going to testify. Last week, on November 3, 2016, France closed 4 mosques on the grounds of the State of Emergency, grounds for the security of France. We can only understand by its fixed nature that European countries who have made a statement against Turkey do not make a statement on similar issues. The PKK, which Europe has listed as a terrorist, is a drug lord. We expect a voice from Western countries to fight the barons. The PKK is a criminal organization that sheds the blood of thousands of innocent people. We also want an explanation of the villains from Western countries. We heard nothing from the West as the PKK killed dozens of Kurdish villagers in Diyarbakır Burritolı. When our innocent people in Ankara, Istanbul, were slaughtered, we heard nothing from the West, from Europe. If he's really taking over Western politics, why didn't the candidates for the ruling party, the heads of youth, the mayor, the city councilmen take care of them while they're being killed, our political colleagues are being killed, and why haven't they heard from them? Western countries, my terrorist is good. They've been following an incoherent policy for a long time. In fact, with these inconsistencies, they're making their own ends meet. Terror's like a boomerang, he'll shoot whoever he's friends with eventually. This is not a sustainable logic for the West, which gives up its idea of justice and sharing in order to maintain its own artificial, economic and secure life, tortures humanity with its inconsistencies, sheds the blood of Muslims, exports blood and tears around it, supports terrorist organizations with weapons and logistical support, causes the migration of self-inflicted refugees, and thus escapes refugees. With this practice, the Western world is actually preparing its own end. Our call to the West is: Be upright. Sooner or later, justice and humanity will win. We know very well who hires who and what for. With a thousand years of state heritage, Turkey will decide its fate and its own. For us, it is not what the West says, but what the mighty people say, not what the left-wing beasts say, but what the noble people say. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0060par0124	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Now, the second and final word on their behalf belongs to Istanbul MP Engin Altay. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0061par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. We can finally meet after a long break in law enforcement. As the public and the General Assembly will notice, these laws are already in effect. We believe that there are many issues that constitute violations of the Constitution, fundamental rights and freedoms. In this already under-incumbent rule of law, it is also useful to see the ruling majority pass by votes and open the judicial path during this week, despite our immediate vote against the General Assembly. Mr. President, Congresswoman, we can't get anything by shutting up. As a former, deceased politician has always said, there is democracy in Turkey. I regret to start with this Parliament if it hadn't come to this. We don't see a political party group in Parliament at the moment. It's their own discretion, it's their savings. First of all, it is the duty of all of us, including the group of political parties who are not here, that the civilian political floor should be forced at every stage, at every point, absolutely, absolutely, absolutely difficult, and that it should be implemented. There is no hesitation in this, but it is not possible to understand: Despite the Constitutional Court rulings on the past, six public prosecutors -- it is not legally possible for them to communicate with each other in six different parts of Turkey -- crimes, while the files are separate, starting an operation against the elected at the same time, and arresting 10 MPs at the same time, is a clear evidence on the public conscience that the judges were given a directive to these judges. We'll never say... not the MP, the President, the Prime Minister, outside of politics, bureaucrat, soldier, everyone must answer before the court. We're a party defending the rule of law. Being a congressman doesn't give anyone the privilege of committing crimes. We also agree on this, but the lawmakers say: "National will, national will, national will." These people, these lawmakers, if they're related to the terrorist organization as much as they are, if proven legally, they'll be punished with the most severe punishment, there's no hesitation. We are also a separate business in this Kurdish issue; the PKK, the terrorist organization, the low and treacherous terrorist organization are a separate business. We are a party that can separate both of them from each other. The fact that they separate their relationship with the PKK with a certain line is relevant to the account they will give in front of the judiciary, but it is not right for our democracy that lawmakers are in prison right now -- considering their crimes for the sake of the parliamentary system -- without being fixed. Some of our esteemed members of the ruling party's statements have increased our confidence in democracy, our hope a bit more. I want to underline that. The MPs will be tried, the alleged split state will be tried, and the alleged state will be tried. You will not protect what you claim to have divided the state, nor what we claim to have robbed the state, when you bring it to the prosecutors, so that you may have peace of mind, in the sight of God, and in the sight of the people, and in the presence of God, your hearts, and your consciences, brother. All of my words here are aimed at the government, and I'm not accusing any of the members of the ruling party, so let me underline that. The second issue is that the Republican People's Party Party Assembly recently convened and issued a statement concerning the state of the country. It's interesting, the manifesto and its meaning have been very intense. This is a clear indication of the work of our Party Assembly and the fact that, of course, the declaration that came out of there -- how true, legitimate, and justified. We're pleased to know that Mr. President wants those who betray our country to be tried in this response. We are extremely pleased that a member of parliament has filed a criminal complaint following this directive. We are very pleased as the Republican People's Party that we have been talking about for years, for treason, for association with some terrorist organizations, for the embodiment of our interconnected criticisms, and for the fact that we can use our right to prove it; I thank Mr. President. Yes, it's a beautiful occasion, with a criminal complaint against our party council statement. We call it the palace and some AKP executives who aided and abetted PKK and ISIS terrorist organizations. I've said that 20 times, I've said it 20 times, 100 times, Mr. President-General said it. There is no case against me so far that I have aided and abetted the government of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). I wonder why, when I said, the government has not filed a lawsuit against me or our President-General. I'll never forget, one day on the stand, I say so, I expect a lawsuit. That's what I'm saying, I'm waiting to be picked up and answered. That didn't work either. Now what? I want to thank our President again. We'll settle up. We will deal with the PKK, the PKK, the DAEŞ, ISIS, who aided, who aided, and who supported. We're happy about that, but we need to say a few things right here and now. Last time I spoke here, I said, "Where was this government?" Where was this government? You let the HDP people in. So why don't you have the governors judge the governors who say, "No, don't interfere, despite demands made by law enforcement, that those who turn a blind eye to the furnaces and boilers are dug here, that the road is bombed, that the trucks are handed out, that the Kalashnikov weapons are distributed here." I mean, why don't you bring the governor who's watching that ditch, the governor who's watching that ditch dig, the Home Secretary who's watching that ditch dig, the Home Secretary who's watching a bomb under the asphalt? If this isn't aiding and abetting, then what is it? What is it? I didn't say it, Mr. President said what did you want? He said what didn't you want? Did the terrorist organization change in one night, shape, shape, form, and become a terrorist organization on 17th? In the 2004 MGK, you were told this, with documents.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0062par0138	Documented with an MIT report.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0061par0139	Well, you're saying that after December 17th-25th, we supported the terrorist organization. Hypothetically, we've been supportive for three years, you've been supportive for fifteen years. Fifteen years. When I say "you," I apologize to the General Assembly over and over again. By "you," I mean the government, the executive body. All respected members of the legislature are spotless, spotless, pure in this regard. I, the government, as a criminal... Mr. Bostanci, don't take notes for nothing. The Civil Code is open, and I criticize the government, where the President cannot promise you, or promise you, according to 69. The government's there, they'll come out and answer. Don't take notes. Yes, the result and the conviction... I want to finish with a call. My call to Mr. President: "Come, don't camp out more of the beautiful people of this beautiful country, more polarization, more decomposition, more politics over the ownership of faith, not politics over race. Don't make politics out of lifestyle. I say to the union of Turkey, to your peace, to your presence, let us all serve together. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0063par0145	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Bostanci didn't listen to you, he wrote a note again, I think he wrote a poem there. I don't know what grade he got. According to 69, you've expressed...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0061par0147	Mr. President, you can't, you can't make a very clear statement.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0063par0148	...we can't promise, yes. But according to 60, I promise for a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0061par0149	Aye, give me 15 minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0063par0150	I'll give you a minute for 60. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0064par0154	The last sentence expressed by Mr. Altay is beautiful. We don't agree with his ideas, but we enjoy listening to him. He speaks very well.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0065par0155	Yeah, I'd doubt myself if you did.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0064par0156	In fact, what I understand from Mr. Altay's speech is why don't you clear the way for trial in the matter of giving instructions to the judiciary, etc.? In Turkey, the law itself investigates such matters, examines them, prosecutes them, and concludes them. Of course, Mr. Altay, if, if, by any chance, the CHP comes to power, you'd have to wonder if they'd be willing to direct the judiciary to open the way for some of the trials. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0065par0158	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0066par0159	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0067par0160	Now there's teasing, now there's teasing.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0065par0161	Mr. President, this is an outrage, but for the record, I'd like to say...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0066par0162	If you'd like, we could turn the mike on for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0065par0165	I'd like to say that the Constitution is clear, our tradition of democracy and Parliament is clear. We will not instruct the judiciary, but in peace of mind, we will do everything in order to establish an independent, free judiciary in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0068par0166	We'll be together then.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0065par0167	There's juriestocracy in this country in the morning, there's teocracy in the afternoon, there's autocracy in the evening, there's full-time fascism. You have to file a complaint before we do.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0069par0169	Yes, thank you. Congressmans, no questions. Thus, negotiations on the entire rule of law have been completed. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, on behalf of groups on the first chapter, the first statement is from Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0070par0180	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the first chapter in the talks of Legislators 417 to 668. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I salute your delegation. First of all, I'd like to point out that we're concerned about the negotiations of this ordinance. Because, after these laws have passed through the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which may be possible to go to other legal channels, go to the Supreme Court, and in the case of this extraordinary situation, at least the judicial path will not be blocked. There's one thing we've often highlighted in the state of emergency as well as in the extension, my dear friends, is that this extraordinary state has been changed to its normal state in the shortest possible amount of time. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and as the National Movement Party Assembly Group, this is our zeal. We view the meeting of the provisions in the Turkish Grand National Assembly as an important step towards the transition to the usual period, and it is seen that law, Constitution, and the Civil Code are being carried out by the legislature. The state of emergency is a constitutional process. The Constitution has drawn the limits of the State of Emergency. The State of Emergency is a period of time, and therefore has limits in terms of time, topic, authority and purpose. In spite of all the arguments, you have to accept that. The government must also use the authority of the decree of the State of Emergency to remain within those limits. In this delicate period of time, regulations and corrections must be made quickly in the provisions of the law. Decisions must also be carried out within the constitutional limits and under the requirements required by the State of Emergency. Again, there are regulations under the law that seem impossible to assess within the scope of the State of Emergency, unfortunately. For example, there is no way to implement the appointment of the rector with the provisions of the State of Emergency. The state-designed, radically changing the structure of state institutions is beyond the subject and purpose of the State of Emergency, and regulations in the State of Emergency law should not lead to an actual situation. The final situation is to break the Constitution and the law. At the same time, the state administration is out of control. The state of emergency is in the jurisdiction of the law. He is in charge, and He is in charge. Why are you repeating this known thing? We have benefited from this reminder because we have seen the unique desire to exercise authority and use it of those who govern the current power and state, as if to exercise infinite authority, but not to take responsibility at all. Dear lawmakers, it's been a hundred and fifteen days since July 15th. For a hundred and fifteen days, the process of fighting ▪ and removing the public from the institutions and institutions of the state has been under way. In this scope, operations continue in the business world with the Turkish Armed Forces, the judiciary, the police, public institutions and organisations, the media-release organs and social media, universities and educational institutions. In the 8th leg of the octopus, the political institution has not yet begun a decoding process. Another remarkable issue, however, is that no one has ever come out of the High Election Board, no matter what the wisdom. We think it's a little hard to explain. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Is the process exempted from the political institution and the YSK, which has infiltrated every institution and organization, built in every district and district? Do the intelligence agencies for the political institution and the Supreme Election Board have no information, or is the government not informed? Dear lawmakers, when we look at the coup attempt on July 15th, it is clear that the leader and author of this coup attempt is Fetullah Gulen, and there is no conflict. However, military executives, leaders and senior executive staffs who will lead and execute the July 15 coup in Turkey are still unclear. The declaration was read in the TRT (TRT) for the formation of the council of the peace, but it is still unknown who it is. After the coup attempt, a list of martial law officials had been seized within the Turkish Armed Forces. Military martial law commanders are clear, but the council members he will serve under are unknown. In the military administration after July 15th, it was reported to the press that the list of officers, such as TRT and banks, will be taken over by certain institutions of the state; e, over. However, a thick smoke screen is still not opened on political positions that will take part in the government after the coup. Can you imagine who would be the TRT general manager, but who would be the minister in charge of the TRT? That doesn't make any sense or reason at all. I mean, it's pretty obvious that there's no such thing as military planning or planning a coup, not even elementary school kids would believe that. We can't imagine that the terrorist leader Smiley, and those who planned the coup, had missed the appointment of political positions, had forgotten them. We believe that the Justice and Development Party government will have had concrete leads on these political staffs from intelligence information obtained by them, suspicious statements in investigations, or documents obtained in the search. If these things are still unknown, then there is a very serious and grave situation, and it shows the depth and veracity of the threat. Dear friends, Turkey is almost paralyzed by its institutions and institutions. The process of eliminating state institutions from the Smiley Gang is difficult and painful, and it is understood that the next days will be difficult and painful. There's no way to get out of this trouble with superficial measures. It's always working against our country, and we all know that there are some victims because of this incident. And we all say that from time to time. But I would like to give a small example here, as I end my words: a veteran and a soldier completed their training on July 14, 2016, surrendered to his unit, and, after the time of surrender, without knowing anyone in the 14th, and without going to education, he sends a message to his mother on the 15th of the month: there is an apocalypse here. Is something going on? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Then, mother, give me your blessing. They put us in a Panzer and take us to a place we don't know about. He sends us his second message in the form of the unknown, and then he's cut off from the family's children, and he's been in Sincan Prison for four months now. It should now be the government's first-degree duty to deal with such issues in the coming period and to deal with them immediately. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0071par0197	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. The second and final word for the groups belongs to Ankara MP Murat Amir. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0072par0201	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Members of the Constitutional Court, in my opinion, has made a decision that will be a black stain on the history of law, Turkish legal history, and that by acting on Article 128, the state-of-the-art provisions of the Constitution cannot be inspected in terms of shape and basis, and therefore -- because of our application -- are unauthorized. But this is contrary to what they had done before. There are three very clear decisions, the Constitutional Court said: "I don't care if you call it a state of emergency, I look in, I look in, I don't touch the state of emergency, but if you've crossed those limits, I'll cancel them. The right decision is that and you should know that high courts don't change decisions so often. If the Turkish Constitutional Court is changing its decision by 180 degrees, that means something, and in fact, it makes it clear that the Constitutional Court today, like other courts, has received instructions from politics, is not neutral and is not independent. Dear friends, the question is: What if the State of Emergency decrees, for example, the 668 that we are currently discussing, are contrary to the Constitution? What if it's against the law? What if it's against international contracts? Who's going to supervise this? I mean, does the Constitutional Court have the right to give you such broad authority to live? Is it the Constitutional Court's jurisdiction to violate the Constitutional Court like this? Look, I know it's overrated, but I also want to give you this example, and I want you to find an answer to that in the back of your mind: So, if you guys ever change your mind, we're going to remove the Constitutional Court by order of the state of emergency law. What will the Constitutional Court do if you say so? Look, there's a lot of permanent regulations in the law order I'm going to talk about, and there's 667, and there's a lot of permanent regulations in the future. What the Constitutional Court says is that it could only be related to the state of emergency. Again, he also said in his unauthorized decision, which means you can't make permanent arrangements. He says you can't make the choice here. He says you can't. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, there are also clear, structural decisions regarding the structure of the state, especially the Armed Forces, especially the Gendarme Organization. Now, with what authority do we arrange this with the three-month state of emergency of the law? This is a clear lack of authority, an open violation of rights, and this is an assault on life, which is clearly your authority, and as we served here under bombs on July 15th, we need to resist this attack today, as well as this attack by the government, if we have protected our democracy, our legislature. (CHP clapping in rows) Don't disqualify your authority. Look, this country is a state of law, this Parliament can make law, make law, make law, that's our right, that's our authority. Look, the state of emergency has to be measured in the laws of the law, they're doing things beyond measure, they're clearly being violated by the causality of innocence. Over 1,400 people are being discharged from the office of public servants. Have they been tried, have they been investigated, have they been tried? By what authority, by what right do we relieve them? Look, you're going to fight this, okay, we're with you to the end, but you can't do this outside the law like a terrorist organization. We'll be right back, you have to respect the rule of law at every point, you have to respect the right to a fair trial. You know that by violating these principles, you will eventually return... if the AKP will not take our country to another place, if it will not take it from the civilized world, if it will not take it from the European Council of Europe, if it will not break it from the European Court of Human Rights, if it obeys the agreement, all of these will return one day, friends, you must know this. So, there's a clear lack of law here. Today is the first day of this painting. Look, a party group is not represented here. It's a problem by itself, so you can look at it from the right-hand side, you can look at it from the AKP rows, it's a problem. You're causing this problem. When we removed these immunitys, we made it clear that this was an attack on the national will. Yes, immunity must be removed, everyone must go to court and answer in independent courts, and we have said that the stealer, the thief, and the supporter of the terrorist organization must be tried. We have said that we must defend the immunity of the bench to the end. Look, what's the point? The point is the arrest of lawmakers. But the Constitutional Court has an open mind. The Constitutional Court said it was against the right to be elected, or the will to be elected, or those words of the national will, which is balsamic to your language. A Constitutional Court that you've been considering since the 2010 referendum. A Constitutional Court whose two members were involved with the terrorist organization, removed from environmental information, social information, and then violated the law, which means that even the Constitutional Court, who looked between you and the two lips of the palace, said that. Now, with these in the middle, can we just say, "My heart's not coming?" Look, there's a way we can solve our problems, our problems, and this dark situation that you've brought our country into, and we have to deal with it here, that way is more law, more democracy, more freedom. We're talking about the law, the injustices, but we can't find a response. So when you look from here, it's very disappointing for us to be talking to lawmakers who don't care about law. So, here's the deal: let's stay within the law if we're going to fight at least the other terrorist organizations. What separates us from terrorist organizations is the use of the legitimate power that separates the state and struggles within the law. Dear friends, you're shutting down a lot of press-employment organs, radios are being turned off, newspapers are being shut down. Look, there's an open attack on the Republic newspaper. He's being held for a problem in a foundation, a problem that should be seen in a court of law, journalists are being arrested and his trials are being continued. Again, as with lawmakers, criminals are tried, of course, punished, but imprisonment is an exception. Now, when we say these things, you immediately say in the form of a choir, they're just courts, independent courts, so what do we do, order the courts? Yes, you don't order the courts, you don't even have to order the courts, you just have to release the courts. Look, the courts that have arrested these MPs and the courts that have arrested the writers of the Cumhuriyet daily are judicial judges. Do you remember how the magistrates were founded? When the money boxes were coming out of those bedrooms, when they were coming out of the shoe boxes, you started those courts in a hurry, and, of course, you committed extraordinary courts against the judge's principle. And today you're having these extraordinary courts take care of all this dirty work, and you're saying that in the face of those arrests, you're saying, "Well, dear, the court has made a decision." No, the court didn't decide that, all those courts are illegitimate. What we have to do is we have to find ways within the law if we're going to fight terrorism, ISIS, and ▪; that's our job. Dear friends, is it our job to suspend them, label them, expose them to neighborhood pressures, social trauma, if they're not guilty? Yeah, can't we turn this around? Dear friends, look, there are many names in the addition of this decree. I mean, what happens when this decree is approved? It's going to be a law order, it's going to be law enforcement, and we're going to be making a law against these people, even a freak. Where is the generality of the law, the principle of abstraction? What if these people are innocent? Yes, about these people, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, if you say yes. In a moment, the National Assembly will issue a conclusion called "Yes," which is connected to the National Assembly. And you will have your votes under it. Do you have any idea what a freak that is and what a plague that is? This mistake must be returned at once, my friends. Look, the right to defend has been destroyed, the principle of equality of weapons has been destroyed, the right to defend is over. What are you afraid of? You've appointed the court, the courts are not independent; you're preventing lawyers from speaking, interviewing; you're confiscating without a prosecutor. Why are you so afraid of law, independent judgment? Dear friends, with these feelings, I declare that we are opposed to this decision. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0073par0215	Thank you, Mr. Emir. On behalf of individuals, the first word belongs to Army MP Oktay Çakak. Here you go, Mr. Dish. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0074par0220	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the State of Emergency 668, to the State of Emergency, to the State of Emergency, to the State of Emergency, to the State of Emergency, and to the State of the Law. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. Our nation's country and will -- as you all know -- was attempted a coup on July 15th. No doubt the people who acted with that intention on that day attempted that day to destroy all gains from the past of this country, to intervene in some way in the political power created by the will of the nation. Of course, after a setback like this, what needed to be done was for the government to take these measures in the fastest, most efficient way. So today, there's the quickest, most efficient struggle with the law-ordered decrees, and we, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, have to do so here. Of course, they all have a legal beating. The 120th article of the Constitution has organized the scope of the State of Emergency and is already telling us that this arrangement is based on a law, a legal basis. In this process, of course, the opposition MPs are especially in the service. But you have to see that the situation at the moment is not the usual situation, and the situation at the moment is a situation that requires an absolutely fast and effective struggle. Now, based on the December 17th-25th process, you're talking about corruption, but you should also see that what was done there that day was, in the interest of someone, by hand, by interference, by making certain decisions against the judiciary. So that wasn't a legal coup?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0075par0226	Wasn't there corruption? Didn't we see the money? Didn't we see the safes?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0076par0227	Yeah, can't you see what's coming out of the bag? He got caught running away with a dollar! They stole $100 billion! There's no such thing there, the conspiracy.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0074par0228	Until yesterday, six months ago, when Mr. President was criticizing the Constitutional Court's decision, didn't you come out here and say, "How is a President criticizing the Constitutional Court's decision?"
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0075par0229	The country is in more trouble than September 12th.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0076par0230	Let's see...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0075par0231	You search September 12th, you purify September 12th.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0076par0232	So, are you defending or defending? There's been a coup! Are you defending the coupgers?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0077par0233	But for an hour...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0078par0234	Please, Congressmans, let's not interfere, please...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0077par0235	Look, we've been listening for an hour, and the same MP friends are trying to explain the Constitutional Court's decision here as a black stain. You got to respect that. The Constitutional Court's decision may also be criticised, but it should not be accepted when criticized by others, but when criticized by you. That's what the law requires.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0079par0236	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0077par0237	Yes, the law will touch everyone. Anyone who swore on this stand for the sake of the country and the rest of the nation would also swear that this law would touch. We all voted here to remove immunity, where all parties -- except the HDP -- supported it. So, if immunity is supported, it's natural to be touched. How are you going to protect the law of the police, the soldiers who were martyred in front of your children?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0080par0238	By not making them tunnel, by not making them tunnel!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0077par0239	And how are you going to defend those who were there to join the funeral of those traitors who touched them and shot them?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0081par0240	By not turning a blind eye to them by calling them the solution process.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0082par0241	Don't recite it!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0077par0242	Here's where you're going to take care of it and say, "You're abusing immunity, and you're unfortunately using the people's trust that you've been given.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0083par0243	Where were you when the bombs were buried?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0077par0244	Therefore, you must support today's legal situation by having the will that you voted for that day.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0083par0245	Before, you said, "Provide those who have gone to Kandil. "
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0077par0246	Here we are, on this occasion, always at our side of the nation, in their favor, thinking about what they feel in their hearts. Hopefully, we'll continue this way from now on. I salute the General Assembly, and entrust you all to God.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0084par0249	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0085par0250	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0084par0251	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0085par0252	Mr. President, if the orator meant us... you will have the will you voted for that day today. He made a statement that we did not have our will.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0084par0253	He didn't mean you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0085par0254	Whether he's gonna fix it himself, or if he's gonna get picked on here...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0084par0255	Here you go, Mr. Dish.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0086par0256	I didn't mean any parties here, I just spoke in the middle.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0084par0257	Okay, well, that's clear. Thank you. Now, the second and final word for the individuals belongs to Ankara MP Necati Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0087par0261	Mr. President, Mr. Court, members of parliament, the AKP has the authority to declare the State of Emergency and issue a decree under the law in order to deal with the coupgers following July 15th. The purpose of the State of Emergency was not only to deal with the coupgers, but also to combat terrorism. Now let's ask: Why did the government need and need this when there was a special Anti-Terror Act? Congressmans, the fight against terrorism requires a will and, of course, credibility. Persuasion is an experience based on experience. There's a beautiful saying in Asia Minor. Look at the root of the grass. When we look back at the government's past, we see that it has neither the will nor the credibility. The AKP's rulings have been created in Turkey under the conditions under which terrorism has been reset. At the end of 14 years, all our cities, all our streets, have been handed over to the climate of fear and intimidation of PKK, ISIS and ▪ terrorist organizations. During the AKP's rule, 2,053 security guards, more than 1,000 of our civil citizens, died because of that attitude you were trying to tell us about. Half the citizens we lost on July 15th, called the most bloody coup in our history, have only lost their lives in the Ankara Gar explosion. In this sense, AKP's ruling history is a history of betrayal, a history of government, country, and power shared by the three terrorist groups.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0088par0264	What's that got to do with anything? What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0087par0265	It's a history of betrayal.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0088par0266	What are you talking about? Look at you!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0087par0267	Who can believe the bet that you will fight terrorism after your years of arm-in-arms with the PKK, the People's Party (PKK), and ISIS?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0088par0268	How can he believe... people believe it! He's buried ten in a crate in the election, and you're still talking! People believe it! You're talking!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0087par0269	On the night of the 15th of July, who will believe you who say, "This blow is a blessing from God?"
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0088par0271	You lose ten elections, you're still talking!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0087par0272	The door to the presidency was opened on the night of July 15th. Who will believe you?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0088par0273	Speech! Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0089par0274	Kadir Believes!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0088par0275	You're talking...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0090par0276	▪ If the presidential system does not come, this country will be divided.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0088par0277	You're running ten elections, you're losing! You ain't got nothing to say to nobody!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0091par0278	No abuse, no abuse. Mr. President, step in.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0092par0280	Mr. Bak, please...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0093par0281	You're an attorney for terrorists? Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0094par0282	When our citizens die with exploding bombs, who will believe you now, as our votes cry out for joy?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0093par0283	Look, it's empty, go sit there!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0094par0284	I'm asking you how you're going to fight terrorism with this coup-loving, this love-loving, that's what I'm asking.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0093par0285	Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0095par0286	It doesn't happen with empty words, it happens with action.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0094par0287	You don't have that purpose, you don't have that purpose.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0093par0288	You haven't been in power in 70 years!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0094par0289	It's clear that your goal is to fight the opposition.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0093par0290	If you talk like that, this people won't give you anything, not even water!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0094par0291	You're calling it a raging mob, letting go of live bombs...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0096par0292	Mr. President, warn me!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0097par0293	Mr. Bak, would you look at this, please...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0098par0294	Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0099par0295	...you can't deny your union and fight the ISIS that you've been lying about with a truckload of lies.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0100par0296	The people choose you because you speak the truth, don't they?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0099par0298	We're going to the same range again. You can't fight against what you're saying, you're giving them everything they want, so let's end this longing.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0101par0300	Yes, yes, don't you see the Firat Shield?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0100par0301	You're telling the truth, and the people are voting for you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0101par0303	Yes, that's right!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0100par0304	That's a load of crap!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0102par0305	And it's a chance for Turkey to resolve the Kurdish issue. You can't fight the PKK you call it.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0101par0306	Yeah, he doesn't know what he's talking about, he must be confused. You're looking at the wrong paper, you're mistaken; you're confused.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0102par0308	And you can't fight a gang that wants to shower with the blood of academics at their rally.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0101par0309	I think you're confused.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0102par0310	Yeah, you can't fight this fight, you won't, because old friends don't become enemies. The greatest partnership is an accomplice, and it's the only one that doesn't break.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0103par0312	Get over it, get over it, get over it!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0101par0313	Well, well, well!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0102par0314	If a spokesman is coming out of this party, you can't fight it. Those words will stop you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0103par0315	You're attending the terrorists' funeral, so what do we do with him?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0102par0316	And every time you go after terror, you see your own face, you see your internal affairs. And, my dear friends, in the end, you have created the new concept of terror and terror. After all, whoever is in love with this country's stone, land, tree, he is a terrorist to you; whoever says peace, brotherhood. He's an academic, a teacher, a terrorist to you, and who doesn't sell his pen, he's a journalist to you, he's a terrorist to you. You created these concepts, with this law, your purpose is to liquidate them. In fact, your only contribution to the solution will be to leave power, which my dear people will provide in the chest. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0104par0319	Yeah, it's had it for ten choices, it's had it for ten choices. Wait, wait, wait! He buried you on November 1st, buried you on November 1st! Jesus Christ! People already gave you the answer!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0105par0320	We will root out terrorists, we will root out Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0106par0321	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0107par0322	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0106par0323	Mr. Bostanci, I promise you for a minute, according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0107par0327	Mr. President, you're a ruling partner with the PKK, ISIS, and the term "politicism" is not a political criticism, it's an extremely shameful and vulgar bullying; let me make it clear to you first. Basically, the people who appreciate what's going on in this country and how the EC PARTY is fighting against terrorist organizations are the people themselves, and the people have given them the best answer, and they will continue to give it to them in the polls.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0106par0330	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0108par0331	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0106par0332	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0108par0333	Now, Mr. Bostanci has interpreted the speech of our friend speaking on the stand as an unpleasant tease.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0109par0334	That's the word, Mr. Altay, you can't agree with that; it's not gonna happen, it's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0108par0335	No. I think he had the right to answer to our friend, and I think he's leveled up, leaving it up to you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0110par0337	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0111par0338	Mr. Yilmaz, just a moment. Now, of course, if you insist, I'll promise, but if you'll listen to me, I'll give you a minute, too, because I promised Mr. Bostanci his place, even though there was a bullying there, and there was bullying there.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0110par0340	I'll be the tidyer, Mr. President. I'll be careful.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0111par0341	Sir, according to 60, I promise you one minute from your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0110par0344	Mr. President, dear friends, what I'm going to say about the term "unpleasant" is that I didn't bring any word out of it myself, I merely repeated your words, and I reflected the words that came out of your mouth back to you there, and I held the mirror in your face. So, you've determined my level yourself; that level belongs to you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit02spe0111par0350	Yeah, no questions. So the talks on chapter one are complete. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0111par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 17th Union. The commission and the government are in place. The talks on chapter one were complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There's a motion on article 1 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the declaration of the article on the 26/7/2016 date and Article 1 of Article 668 of the Law Code No. 417, and on some institutions and organizations. Murat Emir Tanju Özcan Haluk Pekşen Tahsin Tarhan Kazim Arslan Zulfikar Inönu Uniter Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0112par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0111par0014	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0113par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0111par0016	Do I make you read the motive?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0114par0017	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0111par0018	I'm reading the reason: The article's "and regulation of certain public institutions and institutions" indicates that the ruling under the law has a greater purpose and scope than to take specific measures to eliminate these reasons, based on reasons that require the State of Emergency declaration. As it is understood from the title of Article 668, the decree shall not only be made under the State of Emergency, but also "about some institutions and organisations." In the same way, the first article, which determines the scope of the ruling in the rule of law, aims to make general and permanent changes that will remain in the usual laws after the end of the State of Emergency, which do not have the purpose of eliminating the reason for the declaration of the State of Emergency, by separating "some institutions and organisations" in context. Therefore, the declaration of "and to some institutions and institutions" in Article 1 of Article 121/3 of the Constitution cannot be described as "the subject that the State of Emergency has made necessary," which is clearly contrary to Article 121. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Those who accept Article 1... those who do not accept Article 1... shall be admitted to Article 1. There are two motions on the 2nd article, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to the provisions referred to in Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law Code of Law 417 which is currently held in accordance with Article 2 of the Law, we offer "manship of the State of the Law" and "manship of the State" to be included in the second article of the article, with special radios and televisions on the list (1), (2) and (3) of the list of the list of the following lists, and "containment licenses of the State of the State of Emergency" and additional documents on the "manship of the State of Emergency 675," which are listed on the list. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Nihat Özturk Halil Eldemir Halik Dalklıç Haci Bayram Türkoğlu İmran Kılıç Necip Çelik Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 26/7/2016 date and 417 rows, and we propose and propose the removal of Article 2 of Article 2 (b) and Article 2 of Article (3) of Article (3) of Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 2 (b) from the text of the article. Murat Emir Tahsin Tarhan Haluk Pekşen Tanju Özcan Zulfikar Inönu Diary Kazım Arslan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. President-government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0115par0042	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0111par0043	On the motion...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0116par0044	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0111par0045	I'm reading the reason: 3) The closed newspapers and magazines, publishing houses and distribution channels and private radio and television companies are carried away, and it is inextricably necessary for any property of them to be given away without charge of their property and rights, documents and documents, and to be registered on the property of the property. This measure is a continuous and permanent arrangement that will not be limited to the state of emergency and temporary, and its effects and consequences will continue later. In this way, it is against Article 121/3 of the Constitution. Editing, No. 1 on the property rights of the ECHR. It also violates Article 1 of the Lu Subcommittee Protocol. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to the provisions referred to in accordance with Article 2 of the Law Act 417 which is currently in session, the Court of Law (1), (2) and (3) are listed in the following order of the lists of the following, 3/10/2016 and offering additional documents for the "manship of the State of Emergency" and" additional documents for the "manship" of the State of Emergency 675 to be taken into the following" and" additional documents for the second report of the same article on the list of specific radios and televisions (8). Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0117par0054	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0111par0055	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0118par0056	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0111par0057	The commission is putting it to consideration, and the government agrees. It is intended to reflect changes made by KHKs 670 and 675. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 3 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 3/a-c-c-e-h-i-i-j-k-l-m be removed from the substance text of Article 668 of the Law Code No. 26/7/2016 and 417. Murat Emir Kazim Asslan Haluk Pekşen Tahsin Tarhan Tanju Özcan Zulfikar Inönu Uniter Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0119par0071	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0111par0072	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0120par0073	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0121par0074	If you agree, Haluk Pekşen will speak.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0111par0075	Mr. Haluk Pekşen will speak on the motion. Mr. Pekshen, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0122par0077	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, two separate institutions have been organised in the Court of Law 668: one of which is related to the gendarme and one of which is related to the Coast Guard. These are the regulations that must be made, especially in accordance with the regulation of the State of 3046 and 3056, when both the gendarmes and the Coast Guard are looked at. But unfortunately, in the regulations here, the general arrangement of Laws 3046 and 3056 has been ignored, and all the regulations that need to be made there have been taken into account by this law. The hierarchical structure here was planned with the Ministry of Interior, but that's not true either. Why isn't it true? Now, look, what's one of the things we've discussed most? Ministers... you've identified the forces of the Armed Forces, especially as pennies from the Ministry of National Defense. For example, you've linked forces like the Air Force, the Navy, to the Secretary of Defense. Then you put the Chief of Staff in charge of the President. You've severed the integrity of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the forces. And when you did that, you did it with the logic of the law, and then when you realized that it couldn't work, you divided it with another ruling. So you tried to reconnect with the Chief of Staff and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. These are not things to be carried out in accordance with the law. There is no way you can combine this with Turkey's public order when you cannot conduct the gendarmes or the Coast Guard under the command of the commander. All over the world, regulations for armed forces are based on a basic principle: Armed Forces are forces that give legitimate power to political will willingly. Professional armies are the armies that have already handed over legitimate powers to the political system of the state, and they follow the decisions of that political system. Bottom line: When the commander says turn left, which is right, it's turning left -- a rotating army is the professional army of the state. You've done a lot of judicial law enforcement services here, especially for the General Command of the Gendarmes, in command, in the process of collecting from law enforcement, the police force. None of the assignments and regulations are in line with the appointment and promotion of the Armed Forces. In particular, the powers given to the Ministry of Interior in promotions, all of the Colonel's procedures for deployment, I assure you, will come before you again in a few decrees, because in such a case, there will be more conflicts tomorrow in the deployment of the armed forces, especially in the appointment of colonels. Whoever's close to the Home Secretary, you'll appoint him. Now, take a look at the legal text in this, for God's sake. Yeah, what kind of legal text is that? The colonel's promotion, the major's promotion, the Home Secretary's commendation. What happens when you lock up the Home Secretary tomorrow? Do you know what you're going to assign it to? Who's gonna keep a file on him? Will the General Staff of the Armed Forces be enforced, or will the Army personnel regulations be enforced, or based on what? Is there a criteria for these? No. What did you do? Aman, let's connect the gendarmes to the Ministry of Interior, and the Coast Guard to the Ministry of Interior. You don't have to tie them, they're all at your disposal, they'll do as you say. I wonder who they'll serve. Who will these serve? If they're going to serve this country, this community, these laws are wrong, but if they're going to serve you, tie them to your will. I understand you're not taking lessons from the past that you've established here. For example, you connected TÜBITAK to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the time, in 2008. The TÜBITAK experts under that interconnected Prime Minister have arrived, they've done everything you asked. Then what happened? You told them, you put them away. I speak to everyone from here, especially public institutions, and to the bureaucrats of the public institution who have taken part in it, and to the staff of the Armed Forces, especially: there is nothing to protect you but the law. Let's all learn from this. Depending on someone, by increasing someone's political power, you can't feel the government's authority is your own. The government won't give it, the government won't forget it. This is a big government, and he'll have to pay for it sooner or later. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0123par0081	People will ask!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0124par0082	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 4 of Article (1) that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of Article 4 of Article 4 of Article 4 of Article 4 of Code 668, which is currently held on 26/7/2016 dates and 417 rows, be removed from the text of Article (1). Murat Emir Kazim Asslan Haluk Pekşen Tanju Özcan Tahsin Tarhan Zulfikar Inönu Uniter Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0125par0094	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0124par0095	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0126par0096	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0124par0097	Hatay MP Mevlüt Dudu wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dudu.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0127par0100	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the motion we made on Article 4 of the Court of Law 668. Dear MPs, I was on the delegation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to London shortly after the July 15 coup attempt. Together with this delegation, we encountered two handicaps in our talks in London -- the information we received from our friends who went to other countries in the same direction -- one, foreigners found it difficult to believe that there was a coup attempt in Turkey on July 15th. Second, they were seriously concerned about the legality of the process that would take place after the coup attempt. About the first handicap, when our language turned, on July 15th, in Turkey, we really tried to explain that there was a coup attempt against democracy, against Turkish democracy, against the Constitution, and I believe we succeeded in that. As for concerns about the second handicap, the post-inflicted process, we have expressed that we as the Republican People's Party also have concerns, because we have expressed that the power, the power in Turkey, the Justice and Development Party's power is unfortunately criminal in this sense, and that we will monitor this process in this sense, a commission at the headquarters of our party. Now, over the course of time, when we look back, unfortunately we see that the concerns of the world and the Republican People's Party are not entirely wrong. Because since the 15th of July, of course, those who attempt a coup must be punished most severely by the terrorist organization they belong to, and there's no doubt about it, we completely agree on that. But this process has to work within the law. So, is this how it works? No, I'm afraid not, dear friends, unfortunately not. It's a really big crowd that's being victimized right now. Because he is a member of a trade union, or because he gave his child to a private school that is thought to belong only to that congregation, or because he invested money in a bank that was thought to belong to that congregation, or even because he transferred money from this bank, we have citizens who are victims, who have been expelled from civil service, who are imprisoned in prisons. There's no way to accept that. If that's a crime, I'm sorry to say, there are very few innocents among us, dear lawmakers. I don't admit it's a crime if it's a crime, but I think it's going to be very little innocent. Dear lawmakers, on September 9th, 11,000 or so teachers across Turkey were suspended. This 11,000-odd teacher served in Hatay, Hatay, in my province. Since 9/11, these people have been in hell. These people have been suspended on suspicion of being connected to the PKK, that's what we've been told from top officials. And again, we've been told that a very limited amount of these people -- that's the same expression -- are concrete evidence, data that connects with the terrorist organization. Well, since a limited amount of teachers are connected to the terrorist organization in this way, that's the argument, you claim. So, why did you suspend 928 teachers? And these aren't the people who serve at very critical points, these aren't soldiers, these aren't police, they're not intelligence, they're just teachers. This is never a legal practice that can be accepted. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0128par0107	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the (1)th joke of the 4th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 4 of Article (2) that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4/7/2016 and Article 4/7/2016 be removed from the text of Article (2) of Article 4 of Article 668 of the Law Code No. 417. Murat Emir Kazim Asslan Haluk Pekşen Tahsin Tarhan Tanju Özcan İbrahim Özdish Zülfikar Inönü Division Hüseyin Yıldız Gamze Akkuş İngez Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0129par0121	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0128par0122	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0130par0123	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0128par0124	I'm having it read. The Council of Ministers organises something that the Constitution does not allow in the (2)th joke asked to be taken out. In this way, no one in the 6th article of the Constitution shall use the authority of a state that does not remove the source of the body from the Constitution." It's against your judgment. (2) In the third joke, the executive body violates the authority of the TBM, in which case it violates the 7th Article of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 4th article (2): those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on the 4th article (3) I'm going to read it and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article (3) of Article 4 of Article 4 of Code 668, which is currently held on 26/7/2016 dates and 417 rows, be removed from the text of Article (3). Murat Emir Kazim Asslan Haluk Pekşen Tahsin Tarhan Tanju Özcan İbrahim Özdish Zülfikar Inönü Division Hüseyin Yıldız Gamze Akkuş İngez Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0131par0141	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0128par0142	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0132par0143	We disagree, Mr. President. Balıkesir MP Namik Havutça who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0133par0147	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, Turkey is in an extraordinary process, and we are discussing the decrees in this law, or rather the provisions in the Constitution. Look, with this decree, Turkey faces a consequence of almost arbitrary governance and very severe victims. Look, this kind of authority can't be given over to any legal government in the world. We're dealing with a painting that puts everyone with a family, a defection, and contacts in a crime bag, and their responsibilities have never been administrative, criminal, legal responsibilities. My dear friends, right now there's an Investigation Commission, calling in a lot of people, listening. I wonder, who is this traitorous, bastard pilot who dropped the bomb on the Turkish National Assembly? Where? My brother, who gave you this order? Why don't you say, "Why don't you call me here?" Who gave that pilot the order? Why don't you call him?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0134par0149	I didn't.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0133par0150	Neither did I. We were here, and the bomb fell 80 meters in front of us. Who gave the order, brother? Call it in. He's gone. And this coup d'état...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0135par0152	Why would we call that traitor?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0133par0153	Why don't your people call him?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0135par0154	Why would they call the traitor?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0133par0155	We're calling it in, and we're telling it, and here it is. Look, there's still no sign of him, no telling what happened. What do we do? Our friends just told me there was a league called Bank Asian League in Turkey, Bank Asian League. Were all of these football teams? Now, my dear President, I ask you, who were the MPs who went to meet Fetullah in Pennsylvania, covered their heads like a Kaaba, and sat at the bottom of the knee? Who were the mayors who sent their children to their schools, the mayors who gave them buildings, the mayors who gave them housing? Let's get it out, let's get it out, let's get it out. We sincerely want to punish him, that traitor, in the most severe way. We don't get any coupgers from the Republican People's Party. Take care of yourself! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Well, now that you're here, you're unlimited, irresponsible... Look, the esteemed lawmakers are throwing away a lot of our fellow teachers, a lot of our friends -- a lot of our friends -- who didn't use or use by Lock -- in a way they didn't use the bag. We ask the Minister: Mr. Secretary, who identified them? ▪ He sent MIT to us. • Show us. They say to our friend, my brother, we know him, he's a member of the EDUCATION-SEN. We know him very well in Balıkesir, our friend, an Ataturkist, a Republican teacher. He used ByLock. It proves he didn't use it, but our friend is out in the open. Mr. President says there are no victims, but we know that the victims are really victims. Or as the Republican People's Party -- our wish -- we sincerely want these traitors to be punished the hardest way since they took 17 to 25 terms -- and we want them to be punished, and besides, we want them to be punished, but other than that, we have teachers who have never taken a gun in front of Bank Asia, so we have teachers, we have friends who have doctors, and we have them, and don't victimize these people. These aren't the people who voted for us, they're the people who voted for you before. So, please, let's just... First we stand on the side of justice, the right to a fair trial. A lot of our friends... You've taken over the establishments; you've seized the schools, factories, institutions of this fetullah building, over. What about the rights of these, of all the employees, the teachers who work here, the workers who work here, what about their money? You confiscated his property. Come on, Hakan, you confiscated the property of the Thank God, and did his father also make money from the Fetullahist terrorist organization? I mean, people... There's such a thing as the personality of crimes in law. You take the person, you judge him, but you can't put his family in a whole sack and judge them, that doesn't exist in the world of law. In that sense, that's what we draw attention to, that's what we insist on defending. We defend people's right to a fair trial, we believe in the purity of people, we believe in the universal rights of people, the basic human rights. In this framework, this decree of the law is a decree that really exists in fascist states.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0136par0163	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes Article (3) of Article 4: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on the 4th article (4) that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 4 of Article 4 of Article 4 of Article 4 of the Law Code No. 668, on the current 26/7/2016 date and 417 rows. Murat Emir Kazim Asslan Haluk Pekşen Tahsin Tarhan Tanju Özcan İbrahim Özdish Zülfikar Inönü Division Hüseyin Yıldız Gamze Akkuş İngez Cemal Okan Yüksel Necati Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0137par0177	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0136par0178	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0138par0179	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0136par0180	Eskişehir MP Cemal Okan Yüksel demanding a statement on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Probably the last speaker of the day, folks. Here, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0139par0184	Reverend President, the esteemed MPs have now spoken to many of our friends about the 121st Article of the Constitution. Yeah, we survived a violent coup attempt. Then our government declared a state of emergency, and that's good. We're taking measures to be carried out during the state of emergency, and that's good. But that's what you're going to put into them, in terms of time and coverage, where you're going to go beyond the limits of the state of emergency. That's bad. Now, we've made permanent changes to more than 100 ▪ in the legislation we passed since July 20th. In parentheses, why was the state of emergency declared? It's a coup attempt. Why are the laws issued under the law? To ensure that the coup attempt doesn't happen again, over. Now, I'm going to read to you a few of the laws that have been changed by this decree of law: the Law on Zabitan and Military Officers' Salary; the Law on Some Military Hospitals Returning to Capital Savings; the Law on Flights, Parasails, Submarines, Divers and Frogry Man Services; Turkish Civil Aviation Act; the Law on Building a National Mine Action Centre; just a few. For God's sake, what does this have to do with the Fetullah Congregation, the coup? What does the frog man and the Fetullah Congregation have to do with anything? Now, what you're thinking is that the CHP is applying to the Constitutional Court, and we've exported both members of the Constitutional Court -- in parentheses -- with social environmental information -- because that's what it is. We took the Constitutional Court under our own jurisdiction. They won't accept the CHP's application anyway. Let's do what we want; play for yourself. Guys, this isn't how it works. See, such laws were issued during September 12th. Those laws have blocked this country for years. Now these laws that you've passed will be blocked. Every time it comes to our work, we call it the national will, when we criticize you, you're dating. Since 2002, you say the national will has kept us here. But when the laws of the law come, the national will has nothing to do with you. Yeah, that's wrong, that's really wrong. You know, I'm not saying that as a criticism. And everyone who's seen it says it's wrong. Another issue: tens of thousands of people have been fired since July 20th with decrees under the law; okay, fine. There's bound to be leaked, leaked Fetollahs in these, okay, that's good. But, my friend, now we see something in our complaints about the coup commission: your husband is Fetullahist, and you are in this office. That's why we cut you off. So there's a principle of personality to crimes and punishments. Does this mean that a man serves this congregation and is also part of the state staff, that his wife, his child, his nephew, is not related to the congregation or the Fetollah, or the coup? If so, the brother of a general who led these coupgers in the first place shouldn't be your Vice President. So these rules of law, the rules of conscience will be applied separately to citizens, to people, to you? So don't do that. Finally, I say this: so many people have been fired -- right or wrong, I am not arguing -- these men are without bread, they can't bring bread to their homes; when they look for work in the private sector, no one gives them jobs because they've been laid off because of Fetullah. The most feared man is the man with nothing to lose, my friends. Look, after the end of Nazi Germany, the German government began 15 to 20 years of rehabilitation. He threw his ringleaders into prisons, ruined them, but rehabilitated sympathizers, brought them to society. And you need to do something about that, because these people are going to live here with us. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0195	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 4th Article (4) those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit to your votes the 4th Amendment's (a), (b) and (c): those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit to your votes the 4th Amendment's 5th joke: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The 4th article (6) has two motions on it, so I'm going to read it and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentences be added to Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 4 (P.S.) added to Article 6 (P.S.) under Article 417. The appointment to be a contract teacher is valid with the signing of the contract. The contract does not give birth to any rights without being signed. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Halis Dalklıç Halil Erdemir Nihat Özturk Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of Article 4 of Article 4 of Article 6 of Article 6 of Article 4 to be replaced in the following manner, and that the statement of Article 1 of Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 2 of the 2 (promised test) be changed in the following manner, and that the value of the Public Staff Exam is added after the declaration. In the first degree of development, a contract teacher can be employed as part of Article 4 (B) of State Officers Act 657 in the Ministry's empty teacher normu staff and common educational institutions. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Saffet Sandzak Muharrem Varlı Baki Lightning Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0141par0216	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0217	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0142par0218	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0219	I'm reading the reason: ▪ The expression, primarily in the primary areas of development, is not necessary to prioritize teachers in these areas, but it is envisioned that the application of a contract teacher should be passed on the basis of first-degree areas of development. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentences be added to Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 4 (P.S.) added to Article 6 (P.S.) under Article 417. The appointment to be a contract teacher is valid with the signing of the contract. The contract does not give birth to any rights without being signed. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0143par0229	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0230	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0144par0231	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0232	I'm reading the reason: The change in KHK, number 676, has been reflected. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to you the 6th joke of the 4th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on the 4th article (7) and I'm going to read it and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 (7) be removed from the text of Article 4 of Article 4 (7) of Article 668 of the Law Code No. 26/7/2016 and 417 rows. Murat Emir Kazim Asslan Haluk Pekşen Tahsin Tarhan Tanju Özcan Hüseyin Yıldız Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi Necati Yilmaz Zülfikar Inönu Divisioner Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0145par0247	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0248	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0146par0249	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0250	I'm reading the reason: In the 7th joke, which is asked to be removed, it is also against the Constitution's rule of superiority and binding of the Constitution established in Article 11 of the Constitution, that any state body may use authority that is not given to it by the Constitution, or that it may use authority beyond the limits set by the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 4th Amendment's (7) joke: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 4 (8) that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the removal of the article (8) from the text of the article of Article 4 (8) of Article 417 of the Constitution. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Halis Dalklıç Halil Erdemir Nihat Özturk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0147par0265	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0266	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0148par0267	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0268	I'm reading the reason: The verdict is removed from the text due to the legalisation of KHK No. 667. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 4th article (8) of the 4th article: those who accept... those who do not accept... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 5 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 5 of Article 5 of Article 5 of the Law, which is currently in session on 26/7/2016 dates and 417 rows 668. Murat Emir Tahsin Tarhan Haluk Pekşen Tanju Özcan Zulfikar Inönu Diary Kazım Arslan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0149par0281	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0282	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0150par0283	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0284	I'm reading the reason: The article shall be replaced by Article 3 of the Parliamentary Service's Law on Duty and Authority. That way, the gendarmes will be law enforcement. The extraordinary situation, however, should be capable of removing the state of emergency and returning to the pre-existing state of emergency as soon as possible. The change is an arrangement that exceeds the cause and purpose of the state of emergency. The article is a change in the general and continuous rule of law, which is designed to stop the gendarme from becoming a military force and lead to a profound and lasting effect on the law order. In other words, this change will remain in effect after its state of emergency is over. This sentence cannot be described as an arrangement in the Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution in which it is necessary to make it necessary. In this respect, the provision that was asked to be removed from the text of the article is contrary to the Constitution's Article 121. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on item 6 that I'm having read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 668 Article 6 of the Amendment be removed from the text of the Article 6/7/2016 date and 417 rows. Murat Emir Kazim Asslan Haluk Pekşen Tanju Özcan Tahsin Tarhan Zulfikar Inönu Uniter Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0151par0297	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0298	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0152par0299	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0300	I'm reading the reason: The article is a change in the law order, which has general and lasting quality to connect the General Staff with the Turkish Armed Forces and directly to the Ministry of Interior. In other words, this change will remain in effect after its state of emergency is over. This sentence cannot be described as an arrangement in the Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution in which it is necessary to make it necessary. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Now, I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Subsequent 6 has been accepted. There's a motion on the 7th article that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2803 of Law No. 5 of Article 5 (1), which has been replaced with Article 7 of the Law Code, which is currently in 417 rows of the Law, be removed from the text of the substance. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Nihat Özturk Halil Eldemir Halis Dalklıç Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Necip Tetovo Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0153par0315	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0316	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0154par0317	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0318	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to KHK No. 674 has been reflected in the matter. I submit to your votes the motion that the commission has passed, which the government has joined, and which I have given its reason: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 7th Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 10 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Law 2803, which has been replaced by Article 10 of the Law Code 417, which is currently in session, be removed from the text of the article of the Article 8 of the Law. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Nihat Özturk Halil Eldemir Halis Dalklıç Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Necip Tetovo Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0155par0335	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0336	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0156par0337	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0338	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to KHK No. 674 has been reflected in the matter. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article has been accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 13 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the first sentence in Article 1303, which has been replaced by Article 13 (13) Article 13 (13) of the Common Law. Government officials in other service classes of the General Command, including the Gendarme Service Class, take the same advantage of the financial and social rights used by their peers in the Turkish Armed Forces. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Nihat Özturk Halil Eldemir Halis Dalklıç Muğla Bilekık İstanbul Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Necip Tetovo Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0157par0355	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0356	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0158par0357	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0358	I'm reading the reason: Motive: Changes made by KHK (KHK) 669 and 671 have been reflected in the matter. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 13 is accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on the 16th article that I'm having read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to add the following sentences to Article 19 of Law 2803, which has been replaced by Article 16 of the Law Code, which is currently in 417 rows, and propose that the statement in its second joke be changed to "Security." Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Halis Dalklıç Halil Eldemir Nihat Özturk The needs of Jandarma General Command are offered directly by the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of National Defence. These requirements are assessed according to the security priorities of the Ministry of Interior. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0159par0373	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0374	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0160par0375	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0376	I'm reading the reason: Motive: Changes made with KHK No. 674 and 676 have been reflected in the matter. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 21 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the interim clause (b) to Article 2803, which is added to Law 2803, with Article 21 of the Law Rule Number 417, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Halis Dalklıç Halil Eldemir Nihat Özturk "The General Staff of the Gendarme Service Class and four Sub-Commanders of the Gendarme General Staff of the Gendarme Service." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0161par0395	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0396	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0162par0397	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0398	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to be arranged to comply with KHK No. 676. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 21st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. All right, dear friends, we're starting negotiations on items in section two. There's a motion on Article 23 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the declaration of "Security" in the third act of Article 2 of Law No. 2692, which has been replaced by Article 23 of the Law Code 417, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Halis Dalklıç Halil Eldemir Nihat Özturk Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Necip Tetek Mustafa Hilmi Dülger Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0163par0417	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0418	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0164par0419	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0420	I'm reading the reason for the motion: It is intended to be arranged to comply with KHK No. 674. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 23rd article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 24th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change of the 24th Article of the Law, which is currently in session, in 417 rows. The first joke of Article 3 of Law 24-2692 has been changed as follows. The area of the Coast Security Command is organised by the Ministry of Interior, with its posts, bases, and positions. However, in the event of mobilisation and war, the opinion of the Chief of General Staff is taken in the organisation and staff of the troops to be under the command of the Navy Command. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Halis Dalklıç Halil Eldemir Nihat Özturk Mustafa Hilmi Dülger Oktay Çakak Fevzi Şanverdi Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0165par0437	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0438	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0166par0439	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0440	I'm reading the reason: Motive: The purpose is to organise harmonisation with the KHKs 671 and 674. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 24th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 26 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first amendment to Article 7 of Law No. 2692, which has been replaced by Article 26, under the Law Code No. 417, which is currently in session. "Sahal Security Command personnel include officers, petty officers, specialists, contractors, privates, students, privates and civil servants and civil servants. The Law of State Officers No. 657, dated 14/7/1965, is enforced in all forms of equity for the members of the Coast Guard Service Class. However, provisions are carried out regarding employees under the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act 926, dated 27/7/1967, according to their status and rank in terms of promotion, monthly and other financial and social rights. Specialists are subject to Specialist Private Code No. 3269 dated 18/3/1986, under the Contracted Private and Private Law 10/3/2011 dated 10/3/2011." Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Nihat Özturk Halil Eldemir Halis Dalklıç Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Necip Tetek Abdullah Prime Minister Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0167par0458	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0459	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0168par0460	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0461	I'm reading the reason: An adjustment is being made to KHK No. 674. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 27 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose that the statement of "The Chief of Staff and Coast Guard Command" (b) be removed from the text of the article of Articles No. 2692, which has been replaced by Article 27 (U.S.) of Article 8 (U.S.). Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Nihat Özturk Halil Eldemir Halis Dalklıç Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0169par0474	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0475	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0170par0476	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0477	I'm reading the reason: An adjustment arrangement is made with KHK No. 674. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 27th article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There is a motion on Article 29 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentences be added to the first joke of Article 15 of Law No. 2692, which has been replaced by the 29th Article of the Law Code 417, which is currently in session, and that "Severality," which is included in its fourth joke, be changed into "Security, Expedition." "The needs of the Coast Security Command are offered directly by the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of National Defense. These requirements are assessed according to the security priorities of the Ministry of Interior. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Halil Dalklıç Halil Eldemir Nihat Özturk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0171par0492	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0493	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0172par0494	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0495	I'm reading the reason: KHKs 674 and 676 are being arranged for harmonisation. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 31 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 32 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 33 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 34 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 35 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on the interim Article 7 of Article 36, which I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of the interim 7 (b) clause added to Law 2692 and the clause (c) shall be removed from the text of the substance. "b) Two members of the Coast Guard Service Class of Rear Admirals/Bay Security Vice-Commander have been injured." Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Halis Dalklıç Halil Eldemir Nihat Özturk Imran Kılıç Selim Dursun Abdullah Prime Minister Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0173par0519	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0520	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0174par0521	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0522	I'm reading the reason: An adjustment is being made to KHK No. 676. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the interim Article 7 of Article 36: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit to your votes the interim Article 8 of Article 36: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 37 that I'm having read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 37/7/2016 be removed from the draft text of Article 37/7/2016 and Article 417 of the Constitution. Murat Emir Kazim Asslan Haluk Pekşen Tahsin Tarhan Tanju Özcan Zulfikar Inönu Uniter Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0175par0538	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0539	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0176par0540	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0140par0541	Mahmut Tanal has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0177par0544	Mr. President, I read the valuable lawmakers exactly as I read the 37th article, of course, and I don't know if any of our friends have read it: the coup attempt on 15/7/2016 and the continuation of these acts of terror and the decision of the coupters, the interim clause of the coup attempt or measures carried out in 1980 as part of every judicial and administrative measures, and the decision of those who took part in the state of emergency law and carried out their duties, was not born. This was a decision, which was not due to legal, administrative, financial, and criminal responsibility due to their actions. This is a substance that resembles a tyrannical state. This is, you know, when we're criticizing the coup on September 12, 1980, if we're in law, if we're a state of law, if we're defending freedoms, why shouldn't people, civil servants or civil servants be tried? Saying yes to that means no to the legal state. To say yes to that would be to approve of the coup d'état. Saying yes to that means no to democracy. Saying yes to that means no to human rights. So if you're here with this, if the right to live is removed, and the person is confronted with any cruel, arbitrary attitude, I'm afraid there's no responsibility for the public official involved in this matter. Now, what would you think of this substance, dear friends, if it happened to your family, your family, your children? First of all, as parliamentarians here, we have to stick the needle in ourselves and stick it in somebody else. Yes, we curse all kinds of blows, we were here on the night of the coup, we fought the coup together, but we shouldn't be allowed to be lawless by covering the blow, using the coup as an excuse. Law is what everyone needs, the port where we can take refuge is the state of law, the port where we can take refuge is democracy, the port where we can take refuge is freedom. But, dear friends, it's not acceptable to give public servants an open check. So it's good for me to stand up to all the party friends, all the parliamentary friends, all the Parliament members, lawmakers who are free of knowledge, free of conscience, a lover of democracy. So who here doesn't want the coupgers on trial? We all want to, but we want to judge in law, we want to judge in justice, we want to judge in democracy. You're quite comfortable with this clause, what would you do if a public official executed someone, killed someone, or was responsible here? It's not acceptable for such a large, vulgar substance to be placed here, dear friends. Everyone here opposed the coup attempt, no one opposed it, but in doing so, it will bring up judicial executions; it will increase the number of casualties; it will give the price of lawlessness. We say that wherever there is lawlessness, we will oppose it. But with this clause, as far as we can see, all lawless civil servants are given a blank check. So, we're going to say no to this clause, and I'd like you to agree to our amendment proposal. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0178par0548	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 37th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 38, I'm reading it, I'm processing it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 38 of the Article 38 of the Law, which is currently in session on 26/7/2016 dates and 417 rows 668. Murat Emir Tanju Özcan Haluk Pekşen Tahsin Tarhan Kazim Arslan Zulfikar Inönu Uniter Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0179par0561	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0178par0562	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0180par0563	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0178par0564	Mr. Tanal, let's get the motive read, you've made it clear enough, the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0181par0565	This is a different substance, Mr. President. So you're a lawyer, obviously, but I'm sorry, you shouldn't have said that.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0178par0566	You're teasing me, Mr. Tanal. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0182par0570	Dear President, I didn't pick on you, but... because when we look at Article 37, it's quite comfortable... look at Article 128 of the Constitution. Look at the Law State, Article 2. Look at Article 40 of the Constitution. We're on our way, sir, 38. The Constitution also states that the state of the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. The 36th article describes freedom of rights. The European Convention on Human Rights speaks of a fair trial. The Constitution 125: ▪ All actions and procedures of the administration are subject to judicial control. ▪ However, the decision must be made to stop the execution due to irreparable issues. Due to events that are impossible to explain, you're giving us an open check here again. You're saying to the court, to the judge, "Friend, no matter what kind of illegal action, you can't decide to stop the execution." So, my dear President, fellow members of Congress, where do we look for freedom of rights? If you take away the channels of the democratic state of law from a citizen like this, the citizen will go in other ways. I beg of you. Governments live by law. If we want the state to stay within the law, if we want it to live by the law, the public officials must not go outside the law. The thing that separates the state from the bandit is that the state stays within the law, stays within the rule of law. The thing that separates the state from the bandit is that it shouldn't allow that kind of arbitrary procedure. If the government really wants to do a arbitrary transaction and wants to continue the fun process until the end, if it wants to leave the state of law, then -- let me say sorry -- power becomes an illegitimate power. Because the thing that separates political power from the gang, separates it from the tyrannical state is whether it fits the rule of law or not; whether it stays within the state of law or not; that's the criteria. So if there will be any unlawful action here, court, you will not decide to stop the execution; O public official, do not worry, I am behind you, an administrative, financial, legal, criminal investigation cannot be mentioned by law or by law or by law or by law or by law in a country given. There's only one thing to talk about: it's called a tyrannical state, it's called a bandit state. We will not allow the bandit state. We only want one thing: desire, suck, law for everyone. One day, those who are in power now, those who have aided terrorist organizations in the past...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0183par0573	Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0182par0574	I've been following the case of the Ankara Gar massacre for two days. It's very comfortable in the inspector's report, Inspector, how much political power is in hand with ISIS. If you read the 570 pages of property inspector's report and you're going to be booing around, you're going to wish we weren't sitting around.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0184par0576	Get out of here, come on!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0185par0577	Well, let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0182par0578	And I doubt the humanity of these booers. 436 people are going to get hurt, 101 people are going to die, and when I say that, you're going to be booing. Damn your humanity!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0185par0579	Feeding on blood.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0186par0580	Mr. Tanal, please pay attention to our words.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0182par0581	For him, dear friends, those who feed on blood, those who organize this Gar massacre on October 10th, those who stand behind him, those who feed them! (HPP clapping in rows) The ones who hit them, the ones who made them grow, are the ones who made Gaziantep the base of the terrorist organization. Thank you. My respects.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0187par0585	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0188par0586	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0187par0587	Mr. President, the orator has clearly picked on our group. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0188par0588	Here, I promise you, no hard feelings for two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0187par0591	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party, have come to this day, from the day it was founded, to fight terror organizations constantly.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0189par0592	Bandits, political thugs...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0187par0593	Today, you can't show another country in the world that is as determined to fight terror organizations as Turkey. From this point of view, I invite everyone to use a careful language while making accusations.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0190par0594	Excited kids, aren't they, excited kids?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0187par0595	The PKK is a cruel terrorist organization, just as the DAİŞ terrorist organization is a cruel terrorist organization, and the PKK is a terrorist organization. (EC PARTY) It's about these, because they're a terrorist organization, there's no power or party in any way that's done a support or a different kind of application, and it's come to these days. But remember, dear lawmakers: Before the 30th March elections, someone has to go out to the canals and run away from this country and think, "Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, whose channel did I go out to, whose mill was I carrying water?" When they're doing this, when they're using these statements, they're going to have to tell the council who did this. Look, I've said this before from this stand.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0190par0596	Who founded these 17 universities? Who made Ankara, İstanbul?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0187par0597	I've said that before from this bench.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0190par0598	Boo!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0187par0599	Tariq Toros says that he came to my room crying.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0191par0600	Well, well, well.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0187par0601	I couldn't stop it, I couldn't stop him from appointing trustees here. Who says that?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0192par0602	Says who?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0187par0603	Tariq Toros. Whose channel? It's the channel. What are you doing there?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0192par0604	Who cried?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0187par0605	The cryer knows who he is.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0192par0606	Who's crying?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0187par0607	The cryer knows who he is.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0193par0608	Emotional?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0187par0609	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0194par0611	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0195par0612	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0194par0613	Mr. Orator has made a mockery of me, and I would like a word from the teaser.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0195par0614	One moment, Mr. Tanal, I promise you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0196par0615	Why are you giving it to him, Mr. President, what did he say?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0195par0616	Congressmans, I beg you. Look, all terrorist organizations are organizations that need to be cursed. In this country, the kind of propaganda for these terrorist organizations that suck the blood of this nation and cause a lot of lives, please, please, please, please, let us pay attention to what we have to say. Each of us, as representatives of the nation, should be doing politics here on behalf of the nation, we need to take a common stand against the PKK, the YPG, the DHKP-C, any terrorist organization. While this country, this state, is fighting these terrorist organizations, as politicians, I say we take part in this struggle with the nation, on the side of the nation. I want to tell you all -- whatever you are -- that when we talk about such serious issues -- we need to avoid the kind of statements that might be against this nation. Thank you. Mr. Tanal, if you're offended, please, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0197par0620	Mr. President, on what grounds?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0195par0621	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0198par0622	Was it Tanal who cried?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0195par0623	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0199par0624	She's the one who's crying.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0200par0626	Dear President, do you want to be extinct by the people who support, provide, support, and support the valuable lawmakers, the terrorist organization, the ISIS terrorist organization, the people who support, the people who support, the people who support, the people who support, the people who support, the people who support, the people who support, the people who support, the people who support, the people who support, the people who support, the people who help, the people who support, the people who help, the Let it dry.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0201par0627	Tanal, why did you cry? Give me a reason. Tell me why. Why did you cry?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0199par0628	She must have cried!
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0200par0629	So, can we say that ISIS is a disgrace to the terrorist organization, to the terrorist organization, who has assigned land so far, who has opened its universities, who has taught its students there, who has provided money. Can we say that it is dishonorable?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0199par0631	Mr. President, did she cry or not?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0200par0632	Dear friends, what did we not give to the existing organization? It is the traitor's state. Can we say?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0202par0633	Why did you cry, why? You went and cried yourself.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0203par0634	Did you cry at the bottom of your knee?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0200par0635	Dear friends, I didn't go and get photographed by the leader of the terrorist organization, your group's deputy presidents posed there, where 12 of your deputies posed. On the way to Umre, people cover their heads, cover their heads on the pilgrimage, you go to America and cover yourself. Now, what should I say to your mentality?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0203par0636	Did you cry? Did you cry at the bottom of your knee? Did you cry at the bottom of your knee?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0200par0637	Dear friends, look, I'm telling all of you, look, the Deputy Prime Minister is here, and if you have the heart to tell me one file, I'll tell you about ISIS...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0203par0638	Did you cry at the bottom of your knee?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0200par0639	...open Reyhanlı's file on MIT trucks, the Cilve-Eye file, which government has aided ISIS, where you will see it clearly and clearly. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0204par0642	Congressmans, this is polemic, we will end this discussion here.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0205par0643	You've shed a tear for him, haven't you?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0206par0644	But he cried, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0207par0645	Did you cry or not?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0208par0646	Let's get one thing clear, so we'll know if you're crying or not.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0209par0647	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0210par0650	Mr. President, thank you. Turkey is the first country to officially declare ISIS as a terrorist organisation. For once, write this fact down.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0211par0652	You stopped him, Mr. Secretary, and then you pulled him back. Please, don't. I was a journalist then.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0212par0653	When is the date of decision, Minister?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0210par0654	Please...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0213par0655	Please, lawmakers, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0210par0656	We are the country that has declared ISIS a terrorist organization by the Council of Ministers; today, we are the most active, most powerful country in the field with ISIS; we are the country that ended the ISIS urban legend at Cerablus, Dabik. Today, we are the country that has given the strongest fight with PKK terror organization in any time. Terror is a global problem. Terrorists, terrors don't do bad. Our government's position is clear and clear, and we are heedless of what is said. Politics can be done, but there's no such thing as being accused of terrorism, especially of something that our position is so clear and clear. I'm telling you clearly that we, no matter where terror comes from, no matter what ethnicity, no matter what sect is on the axis, terrorism is terrorism; that's the way it is all over the world, and we will continue to fight terrorism strongly, and that's good to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0213par0659	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0214par0660	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0213par0661	Mr. Tanal, we're finishing this. He didn't say anything about you, he expressed the government's view of terrorism.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0214par0662	No, I'll tell you something, I'll finish it.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0215par0663	Sit down, sit down.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0214par0664	Now, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary said: "When did we get the ISIS terrorist organization on the terror list?" In May 2013, Mr. Secretary. When we received it in May 2013, it was again January 2013, January 19, 2013.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0216par0665	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0214par0666	And what did Mr. Turkesh say in the same group? And he said, "Where did these weapons go?"
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0216par0667	Mr. Tanal, for the first time on the world's list of terrors, said ISIS as the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0214par0668	He didn't go to the Turks. What board are you on, what Council of Ministers are you on?
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0216par0672	Members of the law, I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Tanal and his friends: those who agree... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 38 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit Article 39 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 40th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. According to 86...... there is a demand for a word against it. Before we vote on all of them, İstanbul MP Engin Altay who has filed a motion against... Here you go, Mr. Altay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] May we end this with such a lovely conversation at this time of night, Mr. Altay. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0217par0683	I salute the General Assembly. The public opinion and you, lawmakers, as we discussed today, have not shown too much reflex, nor have the opposition shown too much reflex, and so on and so forth. We did such a task and procedure to remove the obstacle from those who closed the path of judgment, and those who were involved in the trial, as soon as possible, to remove the avlo that was drawn to the path of judgment. I wish that the law, which is contrary to the Constitution, will now be passed by you in this law, which gives away fundamental rights and freedoms, will now be passed by you with votes of no, and will open the way of justice and allow many sacrifices to be eliminated. We will go to the Constitutional Court as soon as possible for the obvious discrepancies that were very clear to the Constitutional Court, which Mr. Tanal had just pointed out. I hope and hope the Constitutional Court makes a legal decision on this matter. His decision is above our heads, but I hope, and I hope, a law enforcement plea doesn't live in a high court again. I declare that we will vote no on this bill, the General Assembly, and I salute you, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-08sit03spe0218par0688	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. It was a very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, The ruling under the law is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] With the measures to be taken under the State of Emergency of 668, the Court of the Law has decided to issue a clear vote on the regulation of certain Institutions and Institutions: That way, the law of the law has been passed, so good luck. We will now begin the talks of Judgement of 419 rows. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Court of Justice, which is ranked in 421 rows. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions could not be found after this, the decision was made, on Wednesday (November 9, 2016) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Wednesday (November 9, 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00. I wish you a good evening.
