tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 126th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is the following year of the August 17, 1999 earthquake. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are in the 17th year of the August 17, 1999 earthquake, and we remember the 17th year. Yes, I ask God's mercy once again for our citizens who lost their lives today as the earthquake commemorates our martyrs. We've been remembering 17 times in 17 years, but we haven't gotten 17 inches, fellas. Yes, as a friend of yours who experienced that earthquake that day, really, at 3:02 a.m., it was like a harbinger of an apocalypse. We've lost about 18,000 citizens, 48,000 people injured, various limbs lost, families scattered, children orphaned, orphaned. Today, those tracks are still in that area. Indeed, the Lakerquake was one of Turkey's largest earthquakes and the greatest casualties in the last century. Now, every time we're on the stand, after every incident, we remember these kinds of events that we remember with our prayers, and then we forget. Turkey forgot that, too. In fact, we say we remember every August 17, 1999 earthquake, but we forgot. At times, studies have been conducted, some laws have come out, and the most prominent law is the urban law of transformation, because as a result of this earthquake in Alexandria and four different provinces at the same time, about 400,000 homes were diagnosed as heavily damaged, damaged, medium damage, and today, life is still being maintained within these dwellings. Just after the earthquake, there were 617 buildings that needed to be destroyed. Again in 2012, with a directive, the governors conducted a new search, saying that only three,756 buildings should be destroyed in the province of Kopeli. 3.756 buildings had 9,971 dwellings and businesses. Today, 4,200 tenants live in one of these. I've brought homes to the House so many times, I've brought homes to the House. I mean, we're warned every day, there might be an earthquake in Istanbul. We're warned. The nearest area to which the Istanbul earthquake could have affected is Kopeli, and Yalova, and Düzce, again. Imagine that the tenants live in 4,200 dwellings. Let me describe to you the tenants: the owners don't live, they've had them fixed, they've had them painted, they've decorated, they've marketed. You know, you register your kids, they go to cities, they look at housing, they look at housing, and here are the hosts who rent them out to our children. Our children, who have won the university, live in the house of these coffins, in the house of Absalom, in the house of Jalova, in the house of Düzce, dear friends. So, what do you have to do? Did we remove the urban transformation and prevent the cutting of the columns so that we could make a gallery, trade? Were we able to prevent the buildings from being cut off? We couldn't prevent it. So, have we been able to prevent housing from being built in the creek beds? We couldn't prevent it, and our people are still building housing here. We called it urban transformation, and it's converted into quantitative transformation. In Istanbul, 493 concentration sites were identified; 300 of them were given zoning, and there was no area for Istanbulers to flee from. God forbid. We remember what happened that night. We went down to the beach, and an elderly citizen came and said, "Don't stay here." Because it was a beach filling. Since we've never experienced this experience before, there's a chance that it will collapse at any moment. In the mill, in part of Lakecuk, on that morning, the beaches had collapsed, and the dwellings had become invisible, and it had turned back into the old beach of a hundred years ago. So I'm asking you, let's do a real study of the earthquake, start with the earthquake-related boards, and we're too late. And I say, "God save us." I say, "God save us." I say, "He will not forget his back, because we forget, after every incident, our condolences, our condolences, and we forget." He says we must remember, we must remember what we have forgotten, I give you all love and respect.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0003par0020	Thank you, Mr. Akar. [[HDP MPs to put the Özgür Gündem newspaper above its desk]] The second non-responsive statement belongs to Düzce MP Ayşe Kesiş. Here you go, Mr. Kestir.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0004par0026	Mr. President, I have been promised off-the-topsy 17th anniversary of the August 17th earthquake today, just eleven hours ago today, at 03.02. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died in the earthquake and died in all earthquakes. As a congressman of an earthquake city, as a brother of yours who experienced the earthquake, I wish that the longest 45 seconds would never happen again. As it is known, our country is on an earthquake belt. We felt the most painful examples of this with two major earthquakes that we experienced in 1999. Shortly after the August 17 earthquake, on November 12th, eighty-seven days had passed, and we had a second earthquake on November 12th, when Düzce, Sakarya, and Kopeeli had not yet recovered from their sufferings, and in 30 seconds, my city, Düzce, was razed to the ground. In this sense, there's no way that the Düzceians, the Gölcukians, the Alexandrians, the Yalovans, the Istanbulians and the Sakaryans can forget the earthquake. Though 17 years have passed, the pain of the lives we have lost is still fresh in our hearts. The congressman gave me the numbers before me, and I'm not going to give him a lot of numbers, but I'd like to point out that 285,211 homes were destroyed along with the lives we lost in 1999, wounded and disabled citizens, and about 43,000 businesses were destroyed. The biggest damage to the pond earthquake was to the economy and to the labor force because its area was industrial. During the August 17th and November 12th earthquakes, this great nation showed the best examples of unity and brotherhood. In 1999, our nation presented the best examples of sharing pain and reducing it, rather than breaking up in different ways. Unfortunately, our country is in an earthquake belt, and earthquakes are likely to happen. It's a cliché, I know, but I want to repeat, it's not an earthquake, I want to remind you again that ignorance, ignorance, and misconstruction have killed. It's not the earthquake that's to be feared, it's the unconscious and the unprepared. For the awareness of each individual, the Afyte Ready Turkey Consciousness and Education Expedition Project was launched in 2013, and 4 million of our citizens were trained in disaster awareness. The lessons we learned from the earthquakes as Turkey were brought in with mandatory earthquake insurance, which included the AFAD established in 2009, the urban conversion law, the Disaster Insurance Act. Unfortunately, the biggest reason the balance sheet for the August 17 earthquake is the construction mistakes in the buildings. Although 2,100 cases have been filed after the earthquake, 1,800 of these cases have unfortunately resulted in a lack of punishment due to the legal gaps of the period. Dear President, valued MPs, 95 per cent of our country's population is at risk of earthquakes according to the earthquake map. Likewise, more than 98 per cent of our major industrial centers, 91 per cent of our dams are still in the active earthquake zone. To reduce and investigate the impact of earthquakes in our country, our Grand Assembly, our Veteran Assembly, has established a research commission in 2010 and submitted a report to the General Assembly. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, with the spirit of the August 17th earthquake, this great nation, on July 15th, joined together to heal the wounds just like after the earthquake, renewed the spirit of unity. However, those who did not limit betrayal to the nation and their allies, their collaborators, dared again to try to frighten this nation over a great deal of suffering, such as the earthquake. This is the most important indicator of non-restriction in betrayal. Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and your great delegation with the desire to build earthquake-resistant dwellings, prepare for earthquakes, and to reduce material, spiritual damage by displaying conscious behavior, not to relive our sufferings in the 1999 earthquake.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0005par0036	Thank you, Mr. Kestir. We're saying God will never cause an earthquake to happen to our country again, as the Court. The third unscheduled statement is from Adana MP Muharrem Varlı, who wants to talk about the problems of Adana's corn producers. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0006par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about the problems of the corn producers. On this occasion, I salute you all. The corn harvest has begun in Adana for fifteen or twenty days. Right now, the office is taking escrow, but it's being salted and bought with 14 percent humidity. There's a price uncertainty, so the farmer is suffering a tremendous loss. My dear friends, I've always said here that our priority is to protect the people who make them, to support the people who produce them. Now, for six months now, he's been dropping fertilizers, burning diesels, renting land, watering and growing corn, and today he's started corn harvesting, and there's still no price for corn. Therefore, because of this uncertainty, the merchant lowered the price far below yesterday's figures. Even the starch factories have stopped buying corn right now. Therefore, the farmer has a tremendous victimization. See, as of July 1st, the price of corn is 800,000 dollars, or 80 cents a new number; now August 17th, now the price of corn on the free market is 660,670,000 liras, or 66,67 cents a new number. I mean, is that a good thing? I don't understand why this farmer is so unclaimed, why this farmer is being persecuted, and I don't get it, so I think I can't figure it out. In the eyes of the Department of Agriculture, we're making an attempt to warn TMO, to start this price, to start buying corn, to buy corn in advance, so that corn can rise in the free market. But no one cares, the government doesn't care, so the government doesn't care, it doesn't care about farmers. Look, the TMO had 200,000 tons of corn. As of July 1st, when the price of corn was 800,000 TL, they didn't sell this corn at 80 cents a new number, they're now renting storage and writing damage to the state's house. My dear friends, with such wrong practices, we cannot contribute to the farmer in this country, we must protect the farmer. Right now, the farmer is waiting for the price to be announced and underinflation, 780,000 liras in the old number, 78 cents in the new figure. Look, multiply this by inflation at last year's price. He's waiting for a number under inflation, farmer, but you can't even explain it. Have fear of God. Is God's way of dealing with this farmer? [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, my dear fellow lawmakers, right now, what needs to be done here is the price statement of the office, the protection of the farmer's product. If we can't protect the farmer's product, he can't produce farmers. What will the starch factories work with, what will they produce starch with, what will they produce glucose with? How will this country's needs be met? All the factories that produce winged animal food work on corn. So, how is this farmer going to protect himself if we don't take care of the farmer? Now, I don't know if you've already paid two cents for corn support, which is four cents. I mean, when you're handing out a lot of purses, giving everybody stuff, every day you're lowering the farmer's resources, lowering his profits, lowering them. I mean, when you were four cents on the dollar, you raised the price of corn support to two cents on the dollar. So you're handing out a lot of purses, but this farmer is a stepchild, my dear friends? Dear members of the government, is this farmer a stepchild? Isn't this farmer the man who made this country, that it's worth adding to this country? You should be afraid of God. They get up at six in the morning and they work and they build and they try to feed the people of this country until, I don't know, rain, mud, cold, winter, summer, and summer, and you don't care. The farmer's property is now in his possession, and they can't find a place to sell it. Why? Because the price of the office is uncertain, there's a uncertainty, the starch doesn't buy factories, and the merchant buys them at the price he wants. Guys, let's take care of the farmer. Let's take care of the people who do it for the sake of God, and let's give them their wages for the sake of God. He's trying to earn his family's child's livelihood, and with his sweat, he's burning diesels, he's dropping fertilizers, he's renting fields, he's paying for water. I mean, as long as you're willing to take a stand, defend the farmer's rights a little bit, but I'm afraid I'm not tired of saying that your friends, the government, have nothing to do with it. Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0007par0056	Thank you, Mr Varli. Now, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Gürer, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Kayışoğlu, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Akin, Mr. Dursuoğlu, Mr. Kılıç, Mr. Uğüzdağ, Mr. Akyıldız, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Yurdakul. Yesterday, after the end, Mr. Gürer, today you're number one, you've entered the system, you've avenged yesterday. Here, let's start with you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0008par0063	I was 1st yesterday, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. Some military schools were closed on July 31, 2016, when Articles 104 and 105 of Articles 104 and 105 of Article 669 issued in the Official Gazette. The students are the victims, their families are looking for us; they want security investigations, graduates' rights. They're also wondering if they'll ever go back to military colleges when these kids go to precedent schools. We also receive numerous applications from people who have been laid off in public institutions, and we have nothing to do with them. It is called "The Teachers, the Nurses, and the staff in similar institutions claim that they have been wronged. We demand that they be quickly investigated and work on the removal of the victim's victims and return to their duties as soon as possible for those who are not involved in this coup attempt. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0009par0068	Thank you. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0010par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. In my constituency of the region of Burma, there is no end to environmental disasters. Finally, the fish deaths at the Bosphorus Dam, which will water the Plain of Yenişehir, make the people of the region nervous. According to the agricultural chamber, the wastewater of the Ingegöl Organised Industrial Region is flowing into this dam, and since it is not fully refined, the chemicals are in the water. The most important thing is that this water is in the ground. Because with this water, 5,000 farmers water their land, grow vegetables and fruits. In short, the chemicals in the water mix with vegetables and fruits, and our people consume them, and death, cancer rates are increasing. I demand that this matter be immediately corrected by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment and Urbanism.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0011par0074	Thank you. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0012par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Exactly a month ago, on July 15th, the murder ring, disguised as a soldier, waged war on the Turkish nation, state and democracy. Our nation risked total death to protect its legitimacy, national will and sovereignty and defeated the coupgers. For people who resist democratic demands, military coups, guardianships, this resistance will be a permanent source of inspiration. It is amazing that our allies did not visit Turkey after a month of this coup. We would expect the European Commission and its officials to demonstrate their integrity to raise a voice from Ankara on the defence of the common democratic values we share. We condemn the terrorist organization's coup attempt against national will and democracy by taking the democracy they have worshipped so far from our allies. We are with the Turkish nation, its people, and its democracy. I expect it to form a sentence, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0011par0079	Thank you. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0013par0082	Thank you. First of all, I cherish those who died in the August 17th earthquake. In order to avoid similar suffering in a possible earthquake, we invite power to take necessary and effective measures. Again, after the July 15 coup attempt, institutional changes to the military are being made, and we watch this with anxiety. I think it would be a more realistic solution for people who closed down 200 years of schools and supported and resigned from the work of the SADAT authorities, instead of being the President's advisors and implementing their projects, putting the terrorist organization in these institutions, putting it in the army, blocking their exports in time, setting them up in some sort of scheme, opening them up and supporting them. Because, unfortunately, your understanding doesn't change, we see what's being done. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0014par0086	Thank you. Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0015par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. It's been 17 years since the August 17th earthquake. Forty-five seconds of that earthquake caused both the Alexandrian and Turkey to drown in sorrow. Over time, we see that everyone has forgotten, except those who have suffered this great disaster, that damaged buildings have not been repaired, that even the squares of cities have been flooded with concrete. I wish that Turkey would not have to face such tragic disasters again, and honor and mercy to our dear citizens who lost countless services to Gebze on August 17th, and to our former MP, Mr. Alaettin Kurt, who we lost in the earthquake.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0016par0092	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0017par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Çağatay Kılıç. The information that has come to my side has been cut off by the Ministry of the scholarships and loans of a group of 60-70 students at Mediterranean University. Why are these young people, who are not connected to the congregation, being victimized by a terrorist organization or any other terrorist organization? When asked about the KYK, it was cut on the text from the command. It is called. What did the police say about these young people? You hunt witches on gossip and scribbles? I want an explanation from you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0018par0097	Thank you. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0019par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. After the coup attempt on July 15th, the State of Emergency and the investigation launched in the wave of detention and arrest, in particular, we repeatedly warned that no tears would burn next to the Founder. In particular, complaints are being made that related confessors, whistleblowers, Alevis, patriots, and Ataturkers have targeted them, left them under suspicion, targeted everyone in the congregation, and victimized our unrelated citizens. Confessors are free, many of our innocent citizens are under suspicion. Once again, we repeat our warnings that a rational approach to the well-being of this process is to be dominated, not to violate the laws of the law, and to end these practices that aim to intimidate our citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0020par0103	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0021par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, of course, today is the 17th year of the earthquake. In Istanbul, 493 places were reserved as an earthquake gathering area, 300 of which were divided into zoning. In order to prevent our citizens from being victimized by a possible earthquake in the future, will you turn these 300 sites into an earthquake gathering area again? My second question is that electricity and water are constantly, periodically cut off in the districts and districts of Şanlıurfa Province. When will this constant blackout of electricity and water be removed from our Şanlıurfa provinces and counties and villages? I demand that this sacrifice of Glory be removed from you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0022par0110	Thank you. Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0023par0113	Mr. President, thank you. Seventeen years ago today, he deeply hurt our lives for forty-five endless seconds, leaving behind tears, grief, and ruined lives. A quarter of a century over the Marmara earthquake doesn't ease our suffering. Our country in the earthquake belt continues to experience these sufferings, unfortunately, and it doesn't end. In the August 17th earthquake, 17,480 people were killed, 23,781 injured, 505 injured. I ask God's mercy for those who have lost their lives. It doesn't kill earthquakes, it doesn't take precautions, it kills illegal structures, it kills non-standard buildings, it kills structures on loose ground. At the point of never again suffering, discussions about what measures have been taken from that day until now are often being held. Scientists, experts report and address the requirements for what to do in various environments, various meetings. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm inviting the government here to take precautions on these matters.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0024par0118	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0025par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Seventeen years have passed since the great disaster of August 17, 1999. I want to express in particular that the pain is still fresh, that those who have been lost have never been forgotten. May God never cause us similar suffering again. As a state and community, our greatest responsibility for August 17th is to learn from the disasters. Keeping in mind the fact that Turkey is on an active earthquake belt, we need to keep the legal, administrative and operational decisions and measures on the agenda at all times. Our government is doing serious work on this, tracking all the innovations in the world to become one of the most prepared countries for any earthquake. The Earthquake Strategy and Action Plan are a very important document in this regard and is being implemented in every detail by the relevant institutions of our state. In addition to the efforts of the state and NGOs, it is also important that individuals be conscious. I'm sure we'll all do our part before we forget the painful experiences of the past. I pray to God that our country will never face such disasters again. I remember those who lost their lives in the Marmara earthquake with mercy. I pray once again to their relatives for their condolences and for their patience.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0026par0124	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0027par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask God's mercy for those who lost their lives in the earthquake of Marmara on August 17, 1999, and for their relatives on the anniversary of this bitter day. Our country is known to be in a dangerous earthquake belt. What has happened so far shows that the earthquake is a fact of our country. We must remember that we have to live with this truth now. The advice of scientists and experts in preventing earthquakes is obvious. Therefore, we must take the necessary precautions by having our structures done groundwork and built according to technique. There has appeared corruption on land and sea because of what men have done. God will let them taste some of the consequences of their deeds. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We must first take precautions against the earthquake and then rely on God.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0028par0132	Mr. Sütüdağ...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0029par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. Mugla is a world-famous tourist paradise. Because of the wrong policies imposed by power, tourism is left to its major challenges. Moreover, infrastructure investments are extremely low in Mugla. Despite garbage fires in the basement, almost every week in the basement, the delivery of land for the solid waste storage facility planned by the Muğla Metropolitan Municipality is not under the pressure of power. Although a large portion of the Milas-Layland road was built as a divided road, the 5km to the entrance of the bed was still not done. Many of our citizens have been killed in traffic accidents that occurred in the part that was not done. It is vital to the country's economy, not only for Muğla, but for the country's lack of infrastructure. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0030par0137	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0031par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. On August 3, 2015, I asked Mr. Health Minister to address the situation as Sivas was being transferred from hospitals to headquarters because there were no qualified specialists in the districts of Sivas. On Friday (August 12th), the latest incident left the university hospital in Divrik district of Sivas, where Guldane Korkmaz, who was referred to Sivas, died in an ambulance before reaching Sivas. I ask the Minister of Health, how many more Sivasian brothers must die on the road to the hospital, to Sivas, so that you can send specialists to the districts of Sivas? He demands an immediate solution to this matter, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0030par0141	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0032par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Kızılırmak, the longest river in Turkey, is part of our district of Sarıoğlan in Karaözü district. The only crossing in the region is the historic Shahruh Bridge, which was built by Şahruh Bey in 1480 in Karaözük district. The Shahruh Bridge is dying now. To keep the bridge alive, Mr. Sener Tatar and our current neighborhood chief Mr. Muzaffer Özdemir left no door unsealed. In this regard, Mr. Özdemir (Mr. Özdemir) and I have requested an appointment with Prime Minister Bülli Yıldırım, who said that he would handle the matter in the past, but did not get any results. I'd like to ask the Minister of Transport, Mr. Ahmet Arslan: Are you going to stand by and watch the fall of the historic Shahruh Bridge, the very Prime Minister, or are you going to take possession of this date and prevent the catastrophes that could have happened? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0033par0146	Thank you. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0034par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. It has been a month since the coup attempt by the traitorous terrorist group. There's a struggle going on that we support and contribute to the construction of this organization within the state. We want all applications done within the law order, we follow it, we observe it. In the process, we refer him to the people we believe to be victims, the people who are accused without evidence, the people who are homeless, the people who are accused without information or documentation, the people who are concerned with their relatives, the relevant institutions. I get a lot of petitions and notices on my side, just like everyone else. One of them is Major Fatih Altunkoseoglu, who was a veteran of the so-called "handmade bomb" set off during the shootout in Mardin province. Altunkoseoğlu was suspended three days after the coup attempt without any grounds. In his letter, the Gazi major explains with his witnesses that many members of the organization were expelled by acting together with the team in his unit, fighting the army. This is just one of countless examples. I want the Minister to be sensitive to these matters, not guilty to prevent innocent people from being vaccinated from the bread of a veteran, and I thank you, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0035par0152	Thank you. Mr. Yurdakul...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0036par0155	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım, at yesterday's AKP group meeting, said an arrangement has been prepared for all of our citizens who were injured during the coup attempt to be given the title and rights of a veteran regardless of the rate of incapacity. This is a beautiful development. On the other hand, our heroic sons who were injured in the fight against terrorism are not considered veterans because of the same legislation the Prime Minister complained about. All our children who show that they are willing to sacrifice their lives for this country are already veterans in our eyes. But if an arrangement is being made, we must carry out our mission by offering all our veterans, including those injured in the fight against terrorism, a share they already deserve. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0035par0157	Thank you. Once again, thank you to the MPs who entered the system. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the group's vice presidents who are demanding a word in order. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0037par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, in 1999, we realize the 17th anniversary of the 7.5-th anniversary of the Quake of Marmara, based in Lakecuk. According to the 2010 parliamentary research commission report, 18,373 of our citizens lost their lives, 46,901 were injured, 317,493 housing and 46,912 businesses were badly damaged. Earthquakes are one of the most devastating disasters. The two most damaged earthquakes in Turkey's history took place three months apart -- August 17th and the November 12th Düzle earthquake. The government and the nation jointly tried to quickly heal the wounds of these two earthquakes. Earthquakes are undoubtedly defined as natural disasters, but it is necessary to hide behind them and not lead them to suicide. We must fight the earthquake, before and after, with a two-stage plan. The fight against earthquakes is not just an earthquake-driven policy. To be ready for the earthquake, to take precautions, and to prepare for after the earthquake. The goal of reducing damage needs to be placed at the center of these policies. To reduce the loss of life in the fight against the earthquake, to minimize economic loss, strategies must be developed and implemented.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0038par0167	Mr. Akçay, I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0037par0169	Especially the sense of proportion must be abandoned. This is the foremost of the measures related to the earthquake. We ask God's mercy to all our citizens who lost their lives in the earthquake, offer our condolences to their families, and ask for patience. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0039par0172	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0040par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. We hear that after 17 years have passed, after a great deal of pain and grief for Turkey, a great number of casualties, our citizens living in the region are in a new state of anxiety and concern, especially from media news today. Not in the sense of an accusation, but it's been 17 years, and in the fourteen years of those 17 years, the current government was in charge of governments coming out of the ruling party. We would very much like the government to inform the Parliament on what measures are being taken in 14 years about earthquakes. No matter what happens, it's not too late, at least starting today, it's a matter of priority for this Assembly to do things that will minimise the loss of lives, loss of property, rather than to apologize for the earthquake after the earthquake. I consider it a duty to remind you of that. On the other hand, Mr. President, freedoms mean something to everyone. If there's no freedom of the press, the peace and security environment you're trying to silence is artificial, temporary. The lack of freedom of the press in one country is the basis for the country's development into a more unsafe environment for the coming period. In this regard, we believe it is not the right decision for media employees, newspapers, and especially for our democracy to strengthen the closure of the Özgür Gündem newspaper. This decision, this practice, this exercise, to end immediately, is a democracy...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0041par0180	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0040par0181	Giving up this wrong practice will contribute to the normalisation and democratisation process that we all desire, especially after July 15th, which Turkey needs most. We consider it a duty to warn power as the main opposition party on this issue. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0041par0183	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0042par0186	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to reminisce about those who lost their lives as a result of the earthquake in Marmara, 1999. But once again, there are still problems with our measures against earthquakes. We also expressed it yesterday. Yesterday, with Özgür Gündem's newspaper shut down in private, we said that the free press had been tried to be silenced once and for all in Turkey. And it also shows that freedom of speech and thinking is not only being shut down, but also being blocked. So it's not enough that the newspaper was shut down yesterday at the same time, and we know that the employees, editors, and all of the publishers there were taken into custody by coups. We've expressed it here in the General Assembly, but we've received information that he wasn't hit, and then we have images of him being hit, as you can see here. As if that wasn't enough, just as on July 15th, we watched and saw the process where the coupgers were on TV, TV stations, live broadcast, where Özgür Gündem even witnessed the live broadcast of İmc TV on TV. Özgür Gündem... imc TV correspondent Gülfem Karataş and his cameramen had also been hit there, and we saw that during a period when their live broadcast was announced to Turkey, they were immediately taken into custody as well. The closure of Özgür Gündem, under pressure from this Özgür Gündem, is not enough...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0043par0192	Mr. Demirel, wrap it up, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0042par0193	...it was also a matter of raiding the homes of Özgür Gündem employees and editors, writers, as well. Aslı Erdoğan, who is also the only Turkish writer selected by the world readers to the future, has been taken into custody, while Aslı Erdoğan has been detained and his lawyer's opinion will be postponed for five days, as well as that the lawyer's opinion will be postponed for five days. I'd like to say that I strongly condemn this pressure, the complete elimination of all of this, the re-opening of the free press, the publication of Özgür Gündem, and the release of those who are in custody in this detention fair. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] At the same time, Özgür Gündem has been told that the raids on Özgür Gündem journalists in 2009 were carried out by the community as part of CK operations, and while prosecutors and judges are in prison for now, unfortunately, the Özgür Gündem newspaper has been published again in 2016, and the same practices, the harsher practices have come on the agenda today and have been kept alive. Once again, I condemn these events, saying that the obstacle to the free expression of Özgür Gündem's thoughts must be lifted and the pressure must be lifted. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0044par0197	Thank you, too. We're going on the agenda, Mr. Lawmakers. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's exports fell significantly in 2015. Exports are substandard in 2012. In fact, our exports have not been positive since 2012, and our exports have been trending for the past three years. In 2015, the fall was even faster. The medium-term programme predicts that exports will contribute to growth negative for the next three years. In order to prevent the negative effects of this situation on our economy, the reasons for the decline in exports, we would like to announce the opening of a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the measures taken so far and needed to be taken in the coming period. 1) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[İzmir]] 3) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 4) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] 8) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 13) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Sakarya]] [[Ankara]] 20) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] In fact, our exports have not been positive since 2012, and our exports have been trending for the past three years. In 2015, the fall was even faster. Exports were reduced to minus 0.4 in 2013, only 3.8 in 2014, while exports declined by 8.6 per cent in 2015 to 143.9 billion dollars. In 2015, our exports fell below its level four years ago. So in 2023, 500 billion dollars of exports became impossible to achieve. Moreover, this development has been shown despite a rapid increase in currency rates. The medium-term programme predicts that exports will be negative by the end of 2018. This is a sign that important structural problems exist and wrong policies will continue to be implemented in our exports. Imported entry rates are increasing in exports. The share of high-end and high-tech products has been extremely limited. Turkey's major export markets suffer significant market losses. The trend of moderate growth in the European Union's exports in the last year has ended in the third quarter of 2014 and has declined in 2015. In addition, exports to countries such as Iraq, the Russian Federation, Iran, Egypt, Libya, have reduced about $15.4 billion in the past three years. Our exports, which were $33.7 billion in 2012, were reduced to $18.3 billion in 2015. Finally, our trade in the country, which is remembered for the impact of the crisis with the Russian Federation, raises the possibility of more heavy losses. Because of our tensions with Iran, our businessmen are unable to make sufficient use of the commercial potential and business opportunities that arise after the embargo in this market. All these developments point to structural problems in exports, and show that current business policy is causing serious damage to exports and our economy. On the other hand, Turkey's global competitiveness has also shown itself. In 2012, the World Economic Forum (World Economic Forum) ranked as the 43rd ranking of global competitiveness in 144 countries, while in the last three years, our country fell eight digits to the 51st in 2015. At the coming stage, a series of urgent reforms in the production structure, export policy and foreign policy are needed to overcome the congestion of exports. For this purpose, the reasons for the decline in exports, the measures to increase exports, and the implementation of a research commission to determine the necessary structural reforms would be appropriate. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to reassess the implementation of the internal processing regime, which is an important part of Turkey's exports, to open Parliamental research on the basis of the country's current deficit, to reduce the production industry's external input dependency and to investigate a system that supports the export of advanced technological products. 1) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[İzmir]] 3) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 4) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Osmaniye]] 6) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] 18) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Sakarya]] [[Ankara]] 21) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Antalya]] Exports, under the internal processing regime, have risen rapidly over the past 13 years, reaching 70 per cent of our exports in some sectors. This system is not so widely used in any country, it is essentially not covered by more than 5% of exports in any country, including an exceptional regime. On the other hand, before 1996, foreign currency rates were limited to 60 per cent, while as of 1996, this border was increased to 80 per cent, resulting in a growing dependence on exports over the years. About half of our country's exports and about 13 per cent of its imports have been exported from 2006-2015 to $564.7 billion, 263.4 billion. During the 2006-2015 period, exports included 44.8 per cent in general exports; 13.29 per cent in imports. The share of imports under the internal processing regime has increased to about 67.7% in computer and electronic products; 60.7% in the main metal industry; 59.3% in the main pharmaceutical and materials sector; 47.7% in the production of transport vehicles; 43.2% in the production of commercial and heavy vehicles. Imports in these sectors are part of the sector's total import. If these products can be produced in Turkey, our current deficit and our dependence on the processing regime may be significantly reduced. In this way exports are increasingly dependent on imports. In 2014, there was $30 billion in imports and $67 billion in exports under the processing regime. So 45 per cent of total exports have been processed. In other words, $45 of each $100 export was made with imported entry. This ratio appears to be sectors that use imported input at higher rates when examined in sectors. Imported substitution policies, abandoned in the 1980s, seem to be increasingly dependent on imports to export, even though they are replaced by export-based development models. It is increasing depending on imports, including exports, or diminishing, as it did in 2015. Many sectors seem to have reached the point where competitive production and exports cannot be exported without importing. On the other hand, for the past two years, there has been a significant decline in the closing rate of tax, image, tuition exception documents. The number of documents closed to all documents was at 70 per cent in previous years, while from 2013 to 27 per cent, while 2015 to 8 per cent. The VAT and other tax obligations have negative effects on domestic producers, including the system of processing. Importing for our export companies is much cheaper than buying from our neighbors. For intermediaries, VAT removal or registration also benefit from the work needed to be done to promote domestic production of the system of abandonment. Although the current system has the goal of providing competitive input for our exports, it increases the industry's import dependency, makes domestic industry cumbersome, blocks the production of added goods and the exports of RD and advanced technology. These effects have a negative impact on the competitiveness of the country's economy in the middle and long term. It seems important to study how to repair these effects. We have to point out the necessity of implementing a system that makes a input possible and more attractive from Turkey. As described above, firms from the processing regime may benefit one by one, but in the interest of our country's general interests, it needs to be investigated for the study of all the impacts of the issue and for the system to become more useful, and for the benefit of all our manufacturing sectors. It would also be useful to examine how better co-ordination can be achieved between the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Customs and Trade and the Exporting Unions, including the processing regime. The implementation of the process regime, including an important part of Turkey's exports, also causes some sectors to suffer negative effects. The issue is thought to be in the interest of the entire manufacturing industry, in the interest of the country's interest, and it would be appropriate to set up a research commission to investigate an alternative system that would reduce the current processing deficit, reduce the competitiveness of domestic industry, and increase the value of increasing the production of high goods. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As a result of the tenders and contracts of hospital projects carried out through the Public Special Partnership (KÖO) method, we respectfully submit the Constitution's right to open a Parliamental inquiry on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of the Turkish Parliament, in order to determine the cost of these projects by investigating the damage of the state in the middle and long term and the various privileges of private sector investors. 1) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] 3) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Mersin]] 6) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] 7) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Sakarya]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[Osmaniye]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] The healthcare sector has been changing rapidly since 2002. Most of the time these changes are carried out on a day-to-day basis, while the Kervan is fucked on the road." Many damaging results appear to have occurred in its logic. The costs of public special partnership projects, which are a continuation of the AKP privatisation practices since 2002, are becoming increasingly heavy. There is a general consensus that the KKO model, described as reducing the state's debt burden by extending the need for resources for health investments, will cause losses in the middle and long term, rather than in the public's interest. Research on the cost of rent paid to hospitals operated by the KÖO model, and the concessions to these private companies have damaged the public, informing the public of the damage to these projects. According to cost-effective accounts that hospitals built by the KÖO model can be done at a few years' rent price, the Turkish nation will suffer 23 years from these hospitals, which have been rented for 25 years. According to news reports of media-release organizations, the annual rent fee for Ankara Bilkent Hospital, which is conducted by KÖO, is 240m euros, and a total of 25 years of rent is $6 billion. The fixed amount of government-owned investment in this hospital is only 1 billion and 97 million TL. According to this, the overpayment at the end of 25 years is 4 billion 900 million TL. It is also stated that these rents will rise to very high numbers with service costs. Seven hospitals in Britain have been known to be bankrupt, others have been financially bankrupt, hospitals have been shut down, and health personnel face many financial and spiritual challenges. The rationale of privatisation is to take various risks from the public to the private sector or to share them with the private sector, but in projects conducted in Turkey, the government guarantees a lot of revenue for these hospitals, and the private sector delivers to its investor a golden egg, which is impossible to harm. In addition, these projects, which guarantee 70 per cent of the state's capacity for hospitals built with KKO, also undermine social principles, rather than contrary to the nature of privatisation philosophy. Health is an area that should not be governed by day-to-day policies. It is imperative that the opinions of the relevant parties are not included in the process of creating policy and that public interests or harm be detected in the tender process covered by the special law and the contracts of the KÖO projects. In order to determine the financial and spiritual costs imposed by KÖO hospitals on the Turkish nation and the state budget, we respectfully submit the Constitution's 98th, Turkish National Assembly's Institution, 104, 105, as required by Articles 104 and 105. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0045par0376	Mr. President, thank you very much. This is the 17th year of the August 17th earthquake. Great natural disasters also have a special meaning for the responses of societies to them. One of the most important indications that a community is not just a random community, but a common destiny and a future, is that it's facing such great disasters. In the face of the August 17th earthquake, the Turkish community's co-operation has also been in the direction of confederating everything in terms of encircling suffering. Of course, we've all seen how people who were in many different layers of Turkey during the earthquake tried to help the people who were there in a brutal way; they tried to send medicine, food, aid supplies. And I personally, perhaps, by the circumstances, have personally observed how people who were in a position not to take one water can from here and put it there during that earthquake were carrying loads on vans, trucks, and I've seen this sensitivity to being a nation once again through these images. We've lost more than 17,000 lives in this earthquake, and we've got 25,000 wounded. We tried to heal the suffering, the wounds of this earthquake as a society at that time, as this earthquake showed us as a nation.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0046par0380	Complete, please, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0045par0381	This great natural disaster has shown us socially the way to become a nation, of course, but it also pointed to another thing: the earthquake has shown that when it makes arrangements for the future in this Anatolian geography on fault lines, it needs to make arrangements that will make it possible, and to constantly update them. We're all in this direction. I wanted to express it on this occasion. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0046par0383	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Wednesday 17/8/2016, I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On August 8, 2016, Diyarbakır MP Idris Baluken (2580 rows no. On July 22, 2015, in the attack in Ceylanpınar district of Şanlıurfa on July 22, 2015, it has been suggested that the parliamentary inquiry motion given to Turkey's Grand National Assembly in order to uncover the facts about the death of two public officials should be read in the same joint session Wednesday (17/08/2016) and their talks should be held in the same time. Congressmans, could we have a moment of silence, please? In favor of the People's Democratic Party's group proposal, Mr. Osman Baydemir will be the first to speak. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0047par0399	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable lawmakers, on behalf of my group, I have made a pledge on behalf of Ceylanpınar, on July 22, 2015, that the murder of two police officers in their homes should once again be brought to light in the darkness through Parliament's investigation. What is the greatest political development in our history of the Republic in the context of the solution to the Kurdish problem? If you ask me, it is the solution process that began in 2013 and was unfortunately recognized. If you ask me, what is the darkest of attempts to create obstacles and provocations in the history of the Republic? I would say that one of them is a case of two police officers murdered in the house where they slept on 22 July 2015 with their hands and feet tied down. If today we, the political parties in Parliament, succeed in bringing this dark event into the light, I assure you, open the door to uncovering all the functioning evenings and extensions of the coup mechanics. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to return to case one. On July 20, 2015, a live bomb blew itself up in Suruç, killing 32 innocent civilian young brothers. The live bomb was delivered to Suruç Security Directorate on June 16th, 35 days ago, where Abdurrahman Alagöz was a wanted terrorist figure. Three days before the Suruç explosion again, Urban police warned Suruç police that the bomb attack could have been a live bomb attack. It's all in the files. However, no measures were taken, no precautions were taken, or tolerated, and unfortunately, the massacre took place. In the middle of the night, after forty-eight hours, this murder took place in Ceylanpınar. Dear members of the group, the Honorable President, Mr. Secretary, are so set up that it's been carried out literally. After the murder took place on July 22nd, a vehicle in the direction of Ceylanpınar is stopped at a traffic checkpoint, and three persons found in that vehicle are being pulled into the security yard due to the issue of the vehicle's commercial interest. It's 11:00 p.m. when he was pulled into the police yard. Studies are being carried out on the removal of the foreclosure process until 00. The people in the vehicle are going out, buying bread, buying olives, going to the bank, depositing money, bringing money; there's no problem, they're not facing any charges. At 11:30 p.m., an informant's phone comes to Ceylanınar County Police Department and gives the names of the 3 people in the vehicle who were involved in the incident. At around 24 p.m., these three people are being handed over to the Anti-Terror Division. Severe tortures, aggravated assault with batons, tortures beyond imagination. I'm very clear that no one currently under arrest has anything to do with this case. Now, when this file is examined as a whole and all the data is put down, we see that we're dealing with a massive conspiracy. On the same day, the Governor of Urbana issued a statement saying that at around 10 p.m. today, two police officers at Ceylanpınar district of Beşevler have been found dead in their home. No forced entry has been detected at the homes of our police officers, one of whom is the Anti-Terror Bureau, the other one is in the riot squad. The investigations of our prosecutors and security forces to clarify the incident continue. More information will be given to the public later. The third officer living in the same house still hasn't been asked to testify. Although the police who resided in the same house were with them until 11:30 p.m. that day, his testimony was not included in the file. Thus, this creates one of the biggest dark curtains. Again, the county police commissioner speaking at the funeral of these police officers states that they have deepened the coil of betrayal by taking arms with the organization that enters all the institutions of the state and all the cells of our agencies.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0048par0408	Mr. Baydemir... Congressmans, can we please keep our silence for a moment, please? Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0049par0411	Mr. President, you're adding one minute. Thank you. Through the extensions that this organization has leaked into our organization, intelligence weaknesses have been created; the license plate recognition system of our province has been shut down by orders from its brothers, and has been brought to a heightened stage of law and terrorism. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's get to the bottom of this. There are two basic grounds in this file: one of them is a whistleblower. The tipster himself is missing right now, unregistered. The tipster's brother was arrested for attempted coup. Another brother of the whistleblower is currently wanted on the grounds that he is the Urfa co-ordinator of the congregation. In other words, the judge who ran this case is currently under arrest for the coup. Another issue: the HTS recordings, which provide essential evidence for the file, have been identified by our side as the Office of Analysis, and all of the data from the work done with HTS data following the investigation report, were deleted so that there would be no duplicates in our branch administration (shift+delete). Şanlıurfa Anti-Terror Branch Directorate So all the evidence is, in some way, being blacked out by the people who created the evidence. If you'll excuse me, this incident was described as the last straw to close a page, the opening of the war page. The Prime Minister of the period made a statement exactly as follows: "But the last straw was one day after which, one morning on July 22nd, our Minister of the Interior called. Two of our officers were shot in the back of the head while sleeping in Ceylanpınar. Those HDP speakers who were still talking about peace yesterday, let them answer for it. They'll give, they'll give, they'll give, they'll call it non-combatance. They've been martyred before they've had a chance to fight. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to call the Prime Minister, let's join hands and ask him for his account. If you're really ready to face the truth, if we're ready to face the truth, to shed light on this case, to illuminate impact mechanics. Enlightenment of this case is a form of pollution, a conspiracy, a kind of coup mechanics, and a combination of wills. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, we have moral, conscientious, human, but also political responsibilities. If we're not going to run away from these responsibilities, we all have to give the "yes" to the investigation of this case. If, indeed, we want to be asked to account for whomever the pollution reaches, then the place and the authority of it is this Parliament. If we really don't want the killings of conflict and conflict to cover up the facts, we have to light up this case that sparks the conflict and ignites the fuse. In my opinion, those who say no to this motion bear the burden of those two oppressed ones, but they also carry the burden of all the people who have been killed from Suruç, who have died in the conflicts. Come, let us not carry this plague together; let us go together to this darkness. If we light up this darkness, we'll be able to prevent other darkness from enveloping this country, this geography. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0050par0423	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir. Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın will speak first against the People's Democratic Party group proposal. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0051par0427	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. Sir, one definition of experience is to learn from suffering, tragedy, disaster. Yes, the state of the Republic of Turkey has had many painful experiences so far. One of them is history -- the speakers before me, and the members of the group have also voiced -- is the disaster in the Marmara region, where we lived on August 17, 1999, our earthquake disaster. We've lost a lot of people, our cities have been destroyed, but thank God we've all worked together to heal our wounds in unity and unity. Again, we experienced a similar disaster very recently, which led to a painful experience for us on the evening of July 15th, when there was an attempt by a traitor, a vicious trap, a coup attempt by a corrupt movement. What was the target again? It was a Turkish democracy, a Turkish parliamentary system, a target of the state of the Republic of Turkey, but thank God for that, the Turkish nation has also shown the same effect. As in the past, it is enough that the unity of the spirit of unity has taken control of its state, its nation, its beka, its parliamentary structure, its iconic institutional structures, and it has come out in the square! We can no longer waste or destroy our rights, the level of democratic development that we have earned by paying great prices so far. Of course, we all have to learn a lesson here. I think from July 15th to today, there have been some things in various conversations that we really agree on. What were they? Yes, we use it very often, a proverb that we tell by experience. Or there's a good in every evil. We've shown how we can bring good out of it. We've done this in Parliament, and our people have made it very clear in public, and as a matter of fact, a rally was organized in Yenikapi, and the nation has just taken their flags and put aside their political debates, ethnic debates, religious debates, worldly debates. Because why? The country in question, the nation in question, said the state in question. Our political parties participated in this. Especially our president was one of the first to establish that will. So we went to the new door and said, "We will be there, in the form of this will, which the people have put into the flesh." Now, it wasn't very calculated that such a will was put into place, because when we looked back at our historical history, these actions, especially when your body was weak, at times when your distress was a little bit dull, just like the human body; we say it from time to time. Terrorist organisations, especially in this context, make the timing very carefully, just as they did a hundred years ago; they did it in the First World War, they did it in our Imperial War, we saw it very clearly in our national struggle years, or they did the same in the early years of the young republic. I mean, when trouble befalls the state, when misfortune befalls the nation, they come out of their ambush, out of their cells, and out of their cells, what part of this troubled environment do we take out, and how can we do with a demon, and what can we do with a sneaky act? Here's an example: On the eve of July 15th -- look, it wasn't three days later -- there was a traitorous terrorist attack in the district of Maska in Tripoli, and we lost three of our officers. It didn't stop, it kept going. Throughout the 15th of July, terrorist organizations who have been the tongs of a number of forces that have an account on the back of all Turkey have continued in constant, unwavering determination, sir, acts of terror, criminal acts. So, what should we do, and what should we do in order to learn a lesson from this plague? Dear lawmakers, look, what should we do? We need to strengthen democracy; we need to strengthen unity and unity; we need to put our brotherhood law on stronger ground, more beautiful. What should we do? Now, look, there's no defense, there's self-defense. We have to listen, please, to the wishes of our people, to the wishes of our citizens, who came and turned the door into a feast of democracy. And while we serve, we call upon the government here to serve, warning him to be more careful. From now on, please, before I do the math from you and me... because he was a state of mind in Yenikapi. Therefore, from now on, there must be no more counting on you or me, particularly the appointments in institutions that are considered for restructuring. But, unfortunately, we'd like to express a few disappointments. Look, over the past month, we've been assigned presidents at our universities. Unfortunately, the complaints that have come to us here, the wishes that have come to us, the people who are on the night watch of democracy, the people who have revealed their will in Yenikapi, the people who rise above the tank, the people who are open targets under the helicopter. We're just mediating. This has intellectual extensions, academic extensions. They say we should make more democratization moves. We put our will on the line, and we choose in universities, but the will that we choose, unfortunately, is a 90 percent will, but it's at the disposal of a 10 percent will. Now, for God's sake, in such a embrace, in such a process of democratization, is that the kind of work you do in making people one? This is indeed an act of disobedience to the people for what they have done. Sir, in the same logic, in the Supreme Assembly, even though our individual vote is high, we represent ourselves here with 40 representatives, thank God; why didn't the President give us the authority to form the government? I'm acting on the same logic. I mean, if someone who's been fourth to a university is appointed a chancellor, why didn't you do the same here if someone who's 3rd, 2nd, 5th, has been ordained? Why do democratic rules and regulations run somewhere and not on the other side? We need to get away from this double standard. It breaks our friends, it hurts. That's not the way a national agreement, a united union works in this country. We can't talk about it out there, and we can't talk about it in public. I'm afraid that works for structures like Ankara. It expands the fault lines, increases the vulnerability, and God forbid, there are nutrients for what is expected to be tried again in the future. So, as soon as we do, in our next actions, in all of the government's actions, we want to see a more democratic reflection of this spirit of unity, of the spirit of national understanding. It's demanded of us, there are complaints, fired, sir, suspended, imprisoned... it's a demand for all victims; see, this is not the individual request of the National Movement Party. The National Movement Party presents this as a stand for the people and the rights. We have to express the people's will and rights, dear friends. So, I say, come quickly, to give up these wrongs, and if there really is a longing for the people, the head of the nation, the president of the entire community, the way to do it is to accept everyone together without resorting to any political debate, and respect everyone's preferences. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0052par0439	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. In favour of Peoples' Democratic Party group proposal, the last speaker will be Ankara MP Levent Gök. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0053par0443	Mr. President, I've been promised a group proposal by the People's Democratic Party. I salute you all with love. Before I begin my speech, I once again honor the loss of all our citizens in the August 17th earthquake and offer my condolences to our nation again, stressing the obligation of Turkey to take effective measures in the face of the danger of earthquakes. Mr. President, on July 15, 2016, we spent a very heavy, traumatic, nightmare-filled night here in Turkey, where we all spent together, our citizens in all Turkey, in the streets, in the squares, and we as MPs here. All parties against a coup attempt stood without hesitation, the CHP, the CHP, the HDP -- our citizens spent their lives under tanks, where we stood up against the coupgers who should work in parliament, maintain national sovereignty, not coups, not coups. As the bomb fell on us, all the parties spent a very special and meaningful day together, and after the possibility that Turkey could survive July 15th, we talked together here in the bunkers. We might not have survived July 15th; we've seen how much trouble it's causing, how organized it is. It's a chance for Turkey to have survived that day. So, on the night of July 15th, we met until morning on a plane that everyone agreed on about how Turkey was supposed to be, while we were doing an idea gymnastics under the bombs. It's a full democracy, Turkey's transparency and Turkey's confrontation with reality. Yes, it's a good word, but it needs to be filled. Will Turkey be able to face itself; does Turkey have the courage to reveal all the events of its past, all the dark events? So if we can do this, we're going to fill democracy; if we can't do it, my dear friends, everything goes on as before July 15th. There's nothing funny about it. On the night of the 15th of July, when Turkey overcomes this heavy painting, as time goes by, when it wears off, we still do old-fashioned politics. It's a time when its understanding fails. In this regard, a particularly heavy responsibility falls on the ruling party. There's a heavy responsibility to run this process. The opposition stood together against the coup attempt, said their statements; he claimed it in the streets, in the squares, in the parliament, but it has to be filled with gold. To rebuild democracy in Turkey, the first thing Turkey will do is to face its past once, so that we can form an alliance against the non-violence of Turkey's founding philosophy, which will never happen again. Here, these dark, unsolved events are at the beginning of them, my dear friends. Maybe July 15th would not have been a coup attempt if we could face the unsolved events properly before July 15th. There's been a lot of research proposals. Unfortunately, the ruling party rejects the motions made by opposition parties in a jealous state, but my dear friends, if they had been approved here earlier, there might not have been a July 15 coup attempt. If we all went to Ceylanpınar and found out the truth behind the killing of two of our brothers, maybe we would have prevented July 15th, just like Suruç. Look, there was this coup attempt on July 15th. Do you know if the murder of those two cops in Ceylanpınar has anything to do with it? We've all talked about the killing of 34 of our citizens in the Uludere, and we've proposed a series of research proposals so that we can go after it. The ruling party rejected it, but now we see that the dark relations that we had said that day, but they were not respected, are they what they did? Now, my dear friends, in a painting like this, have not fulfilled the responsibility of the ruling party. Look, this research proposal is important. After the incident, the governorship said in a written statement that two police officers were killed: "There is no forced entry at the home of our ©2 police officers, and no gunshots were heard at the door. " Two police officers die in an atmosphere where the gunshot was not heard or forced to be heard, and the perpetrator is nowhere to be found. What is the truth underneath this game? Two days before that, the bomb exploded in Suruç, the killing of police, then the explosion at Ankara Station, the explosions in Ankara, the explosions in Istanbul and the unsolved murders in many parts of Turkey; what are these, my dear friends? For a ruling party, they're really mad because in democracies there's no such thing as the unknown, my dear friends. How can there be an unsolved incident? It's the government's job to eliminate the perpetrators and bring our democracy back to life by uncovering their perpetrators, but everyone's scared to see if anything will happen to me. It is very difficult for Turkey to build its future unless this event is illuminated. Look, we need to discuss this. We set up a coup commission after July 15th. All the parties are members of the Commission. E, why won't the AKP give my dear friends the member of the coup commission? So, what, we're not going to investigate the coup, what are his reasons? Maybe it's the incident of killing two policemen in Ceylanpınar. It'll be Uludere. It'll be the Ankara Station explosion. Let's investigate these, and the ruling party won't sweep them under the rug again. We're going through a very heavy and bally days, my dear friends. We, the opposition, want to fulfill our responsibility. Let's go over these issues, let's face it, and let's not be afraid, let's not be afraid of what comes out of it, because if we can't and we don't, the Kurdish problem of Turkey won't be solved, my dear friends. Many of Turkey's problems are unresolved; the problem of democracy cannot be solved because we need to know which events trigger the process in which direction, and that's what we need to find out. It's only a matter of going after the transparent state; it's a burden. We'll have to discuss this, but we'll see if Şırnak is out of the province of Hakkari or not. My dear friends, why should Hakkari and Şırnak not be a province? If we have to, let's make it a province, and let's make it a province, but why should we eliminate two important cities, such as Hakkari and Şırnak? We have seen once again today that the people of Şırnak and Hakkari are concerned about their lives, that they cannot look at the future with assurance. There's no need for that, now we're in a time period where we need to be sensible, and here we have responsibility at the ruling party. The ruling party must co-operate with all parties, my dear friends, take all parties' contribution to democracy, embrace it. Since we have declared the following of July 15th, since we will now speak a new political language after July 15th, we have to make these policy-speaking research proposals, make group proposals, get the law out. Look, there's a bag of laws being discussed, no consent from the opposition. This is not how we can build Turkey, my dear friends. We don't want to relive the night of July 15th. On these issues, we have repeatedly warned: Be careful of the organization. We've had several warnings, we've got motions to investigate; they've all been rejected. What would happen, my dear friends, if the ruling party wasn't jealous, but we studied them? Maybe we could avoid things that could have been avoided without worse consequences. As opposition, we'll continue to repeat this stimulus, constructive view. Make no mistake, my dear friends, Turkey has no more time to take the wrong away. How was it organized in Turkey? How did he infiltrate the institutions? How is it possible that all of these political institutions could just collapse? Who has responsibility, who has responsibility? How did it happen? It's our duty to expose all of this. Here's the case of the two cops who were killed in Ceylanpınar. If they were exposed, maybe all the developments that were tied to that thread would trigger each other and come out. Don't tell me that's a lot to take in. I believe that perhaps we'll take another big step when this motion by the People's Democratic Party on Ceylanpınar is accepted in parliament. When we investigate the incident, maybe the facts behind it will lead to power. Do you know the facts behind that incident? You don't know. The governor says: "The door is closed, there is no sound of gunfire." So, how were my dear friends killed? As a citizen, I want to know how to kill two people in a house without being forced to leave my MP ID, without being shot at, and how to kill them in Turkey. How did this happen? What about my assurance? What will be the guarantee of 79 million? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And what will make them know that they will not have the same fate? So... Do you have a minute, sir? I'll pack it up, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0054par0462	Okay. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0053par0464	Therefore, during this very important period of time, the ruling party has to table all sorts of things that are now constructive. Such a painting is an absolute necessity for Turkey's democracy to be rebuilt in a way that will never be seen again, my dear friends, we want to underline them. We have to put this and everything like this on the table and work it out together, hand in hand. Therefore, I say that we, the Republican People's Party, support the motion to investigate the death of two of our fellow policemen in Ceylanpınar, and that the ruling party, by opening the way of the Assembly on this matter, will vote on you, and I respectfully salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0054par0467	Thank you, Mr. Sky. The People's Democratic Party will finally speak against the group's proposal, Mr. Celalettin Güvenç, the deputy of Kahramanmarash. Here you go, Mr. Truster.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0055par0471	Mr. President, I would like to present my opinion on the People's Democratic Party proposal on behalf of my group. I salute you with respect and respect. At the beginning of my words, I ask for mercy from the people we lost in the August 17, 1999 earthquake. I wish God would never again cause such suffering to our country, to our people. At the beginning of my words, July 15, 2016, I pray for mercy on all of our fallen martyrs, and to our heroic veterans, God's rights. Gene, in this context, I once again express my gratitude to our nation for the heroicness that our people showed on July 15th, the lesson of democracy to the world, to our entire nation, to our 79 million people, to all parties, and to the heroicness of the people on July 15th, to show what stage democracy culture has come to in our country. And of course, I would like to express my gratitude, my gratitude to Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, the President of our Veteran Assembly, and to the MPs of all parties who were present at the Assembly that day for the opening of the Assembly, for this heroic saga, and as a son of this country, that this country is now clear, whatever they may do, that we show that it is one of the countries in the 21st century that will take the lead in this country, and that I am proud of it, and that we can have a very good outcome from this tragedy. Now, I would like to point out that I am surprised by this motion by the People's Democratic Party, when such a democratic weather, softness, co-operation is between opposition. That's the problem.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0056par0477	We're not together. You do it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0055par0478	We agree that the main issue of this country is to end terrorism and violence. Terror and violence are cutting off the pace of our democracy, threatening our democracy, a serious obstacle to our future. Of course, we have to solve terror and violence within democracy.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0057par0479	That's why we're giving it to him, to see what happened.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0055par0480	Today in this country, there is a 50 per cent public government that is struggling, screaming ▪democracy, democracy, and violence.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0058par0481	Let's kill the other 50 percent! Let's kill all the other 50 percent!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0055par0482	In this country, even if it's poison, there's a president of the people's choice. My dear friends, we have to see this.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0059par0483	The President doesn't want democracy, he wants dictatorship.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0055par0484	If you're going to shed light on dark events, if you're going to prevent any more judicial executions, murders, tortures in this country, you're going to prefer democratic politics.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0059par0485	The government will prevent it, the government will prevent it!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0060par0486	You'll prevent it!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0061par0487	You'd prefer it, you'd prefer it! Don't tell us that!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0062par0488	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0063par0489	I'm just saying, what I'm saying is...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0064par0490	What the hell are you telling us?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0063par0491	Excuse me. Look, I've listened to you, I've listened to Mr. Baydemir, I've listened to you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0064par0493	Say something to rest!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0063par0494	Those who talk to me... I'm saying one sentence: those who want this country to reach true democracy, those who think the future is united, those who think it's united, those who think it's united, they're not going to talk to me, they're going to come to this stand, they're going to say that the gun is not an argument in Turkey, they're going to be left behind, there's no armed solution, they're going to be for democratic politics.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0065par0495	We just told him yesterday.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0066par0496	We say that every day, every day.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0067par0497	Unless you don't want to hear it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0068par0498	There's nothing else.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0069par0500	Why don't you just love him?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0068par0501	Look, clearly, we call DAESSe and Al-Qaeda, PKK, and all kinds of violent, secret, magical structures, we call it the people's sovereignty, we call it peace.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0070par0502	Let's look into your relationship with all of them.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0071par0503	Yeah, yeah, explain who brought them all in. Who prepared the coup? Who did this to the coupgers?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0068par0504	And what we expect from you, look, I'm telling you very clearly, is that the kandil will drop the gun.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0072par0505	Isn't he your partner?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0071par0506	Wasn't he your partner?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0073par0507	Did we plant it?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0071par0508	Did we plant it?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0074par0509	If the kandil doesn't drop the gun, the people in this House will come here...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0075par0510	We're here, we're here.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0074par0511	...he'll say, "The gun's out of time, the gun's out of time."
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0075par0512	We've said it a hundred times.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0076par0513	You gave them everything they wanted.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0077par0514	You guys walked down those roads together!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0078par0515	Now that the people have sent us, we'll do democratic politics here.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0076par0516	What did they want? Did we give it to them?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0078par0517	There's nothing we can't solve the day you say that. Other than that...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0079par0518	Look at the old videos, they're old.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0080par0519	You go tell that to the PKK, you're not telling us!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0078par0520	Sit down, sit down! Other than that, what you're saying is...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0081par0522	Don't tell us that, don't tell us that.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0078par0523	Look, we've been here since November 1st. I'm watching, I'm trying to understand, I'm trying to empathize.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0082par0524	But you don't understand.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0081par0525	You don't understand.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0078par0526	I've been in the area for 25 years of my career. I know how people suffer. Every day, at the age of two or three, her baby...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0083par0527	We're suffering more.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0084par0528	Congressmans, we're listening, please...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0078par0529	...we remove the funeral of the fallen police who left behind, the funeral of the soldiers.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0085par0530	The hill of martyrs will not be empty. You are the one who says.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0078par0531	Kurdish children in the region are dying.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0086par0532	You call your families happy!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0078par0533	Look, I'm being very clear, it's costing our country blood. Besides violence, Kurdish politics must evolve into democratic politics, civil politics.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0087par0534	We've been saying that for 30 years, 30 years. You're late.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0078par0535	Once you've evolved, there'll be no dark spots, the democracy of this country will prevail. That's the gist of it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0088par0536	Is that why you brought in the trustee's bill?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0078par0537	As for this incident, I'm afraid you have some explaining to do. Look, July 22nd, on the morning of the incident, please go online, Mr. Baydemir, please, there's an explanation for the A.N.F. News Agency. I'm reading to you in front of our nation that two police officers were punished by the Apocu bouncer team. This is on July 22nd.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0088par0539	Okay, let's look into it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0089par0540	Okay, let's look into it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0078par0541	Wait a minute... I'm reading the statement: on July 22nd, an Apocu task force carried out an act of punishment against two police officers in Ceylanpınar at around 6 a.m. in connection with the DaEŞ gangs in retaliation for Suruç massacre. As a result of the action, police officers named Feyyaz Ozsahra and Okan Acar were killed, while their weapons and identities were confiscated. You have an explanation on your mobile phones. Well...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0090par0542	How true is that?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0091par0543	It can't be reached, but you can!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0078par0544	I did.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0092par0545	Let's investigate, let's investigate.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0091par0546	Only you can read that news.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0078par0547	Now, on the same day, the two members of the PKK terror organization, which was being followed according to CMK 135. (Araratrat: At six o'clock this morning, at Ceylanpınar, in Urbana, two police officers of the Riots shoot to death, and two others of them die. Two guns were taken from them, their identities were confiscated. Rojhat: Okay. Ararat: Look, I'll give you their names: Feyaz Ozsahra; this is from Kırşehir. Rojhat: Okay. Ararat: The second is Okan Acar; this is Niğdelite. Rojhat: Okay.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0093par0554	Those Rojhats are your people.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0078par0555	Now, on the 29th...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0094par0556	Who gave the information to Davutoglu?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0095par0557	Okay, let's look into that.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0078par0558	Guys, let's try to understand.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0096par0559	We understand perfectly.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0095par0560	We get it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0097par0561	We understand, we understand...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0098par0562	Honestly, I don't want to offend you; look, I'm trying to tell you something.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0099par0563	Who gave them that intel?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0100par0564	Confirm the motion, and we will investigate, and we will know who Rojhat is.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0101par0565	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0102par0566	Look, by July 29th, from the incident, 2015...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0103par0567	They're coupgers, they're all inside now.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0104par0568	They're hit men.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0105par0569	They're all inside.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0106par0570	They're parallel, they're all parallel.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0107par0571	I'll tell you. If you listen, I'll tell you. He says to the BBC... look, get into BBC sources, it's easy to access. Speaking to Mahmut Hamsici of the BBC Turkey, Turkish Foreign Affairs spokesman Agit has announced that the attack on Ceylanınar was not carried out by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). I'll say anything. These are the independent units of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). We have no qualms about taking responsibility for what we have done. Seven days later, someone wakes me up.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0108par0573	Let's investigate whoever it is.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0107par0574	And some of the judges and prosecutors in this case are being arrested as..... Who is cooperating with whom, my dear brothers? I respect all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0109par0577	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0110par0578	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0111par0579	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0112par0580	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0113par0581	Mr. Ironel, let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0111par0582	He expressed in his speech that we are anti-democracy, that they express their understanding of democracy with 50 per cent power and that we are not doing democratic politics, that we should come to democratic politics with it, and that we have given our group and the motion. That's why I'd like a word from the teaser.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0113par0583	Mr. Baydemir will speak?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0111par0584	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0113par0585	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0114par0586	Besides, I'm not gonna be able to...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0111par0587	In addition, he spoke of himself and himself, saying the name of Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0113par0588	Mr. Baydemir said the name, but he didn't insult it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0114par0589	That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0111par0590	But what you said...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0113par0591	He didn't insult me.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0115par0592	But he twisted their testimony.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0113par0593	No, no insult at all.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0116par0594	But he's...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0113par0595	I listened very well, and he never insulted me. If you want to talk about bullying, I'll give it to you or Mr. Baydemir will speak for you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0116par0597	Okay, we want to talk about bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0117par0598	First, let the President say something.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0118par0599	Sir, I have a brief statement from my position, would it be possible?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0119par0600	If Mr. Baydemir is going to speak, let me hear you out, Mr. Gök.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0118par0601	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0119par0602	Here you go, Mr. Baydemir, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0120par0606	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, in fact, if the speaker hadn't given this speech, I wouldn't have shared the statement of Cemil Bayik, the top mouth of the organization on this matter here.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0121par0607	Get him, get him, get him!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0120par0608	Because if I did, you'd say, "Are you a lawyer for the top level of the organization?"
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0122par0609	No doubt!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0120par0610	Now, look, it's very clear and clear that there is no such thing as shooting a man who sleeps in our culture of war, who doesn't fight with us. We consider it a crime.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0123par0612	Is that what you're referring to, Mr. Baydemir?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0120par0613	How right is that? How wrong is that?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0123par0614	Mr. Baydemir, please... please be careful who you refer to on this bench. Please...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0120par0615	Mr. President, he's talking, he's talking.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0123par0616	This is the bench of the Republic of Turkey, please... please...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0120par0617	What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0124par0618	What the hell are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0123par0619	Congressmans, please excuse me.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0125par0621	Why are you interfering, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0123par0622	I have the right to interrupt. Please...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0126par0623	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0123par0624	Mr. Baydemir, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0127par0625	Mr. President, give me my time.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0123par0626	I'll give you more time, go ahead. Please be selective in your words.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0128par0628	What's moral about killing five-year-olds? What moral code does it take to kill babies?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0123par0629	Congressmans, we're listening...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0129par0630	Now, that's what we call provocation.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0130par0631	Just two days ago, people were killed in Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0131par0632	What moral code does it take to kill babies?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0132par0633	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0133par0634	Governor...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0134par0635	Who do you mean by "we"? You mean the PKK?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0133par0636	...you've been governor of that city for years, and in all the time you've been governor of that city, how long were you involved with that structure?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0134par0637	PYD or PKK, which do you mean?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0133par0638	How involved were all the governors, all the governors, all the ministers? I told you yesterday, both aiding and abetting. That's not the point, that's not the point. It's our business, let's find out who's dirty in this war, with courage, with sincerity, with morality, with morality.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0135par0640	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0136par0641	Come on, come on!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0133par0642	War corrupts...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0135par0643	There's no war, there's a war on the terrorist.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0133par0644	... wouldsteal all sides of the war. The government's dirty, too.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0137par0646	You're dirty!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0135par0647	You're the dirty one. The government isn't dirty, you're dirty.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0138par0648	Come on, come on!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0137par0649	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0139par0650	I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0140par0651	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0141par0652	Mr. President, give me time.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0139par0653	I'll give it to you in a minute... how angry everyone is! Let us do our job. Please...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0142par0654	Thanks to you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0143par0655	This is the war, the war that lit the fuse on July 20th...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0144par0657	What war!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0143par0658	... government, conflict, death, impact mechanics. Look, even the Prime Minister is being manipulated. His prime minister's office calls him earlier in the morning, and he says: "This is what happened. " The Prime Minister is wanted before eleven o'clock, an era is being shut down. Why don't you understand that? So, the deception process continues after December 17th-25th. They're preparing you for the coup by pulling you, the government, into the war, into the conflict, why don't you see that?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0145par0660	For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0146par0661	Did those guns come in one day, did those guns come in one day, dug the trenches in one day?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0143par0662	Those who led you, if you go after them, we'll have a chance to see who took advantage of the big picture.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0145par0663	Look who's leading you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0147par0664	Write down those who object the most.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0143par0665	If we don't get a chance to see this... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...so that if we don't listen to each other, you won't be learning from the coup d'état, it won't be learned.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0148par0668	Don't take the hit in your mouth!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0143par0669	If you don't learn from the coup d'état, you'll have the floor of the new blows.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0149par0671	Mr. Baydemir, thank you. Mr. Gök, you're sitting at Mr. Altay's place.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0150par0673	I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0149par0674	I'm taking turns. Mr. Altay is in the system, I assume you've made a request?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0151par0676	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0149par0677	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0151par0680	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I just wanted to make it up to you for the record.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0149par0682	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0151par0683	We're discussing a motion to investigate the death of two police brothers who died in Ceylanınar, but we need to get the names of our friends and brothers to be properly contained. The families who followed us may have thought that our children's names would at least be right when they're on the books in the House.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0149par0684	That's right.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0151par0685	Because we're discussing an important matter. Because our AKP spokesman, who just spoke, named one of the police officers who died, as Feeyaz Ozsahra. His name is not Ezsahra. His name is Feyaz, which is soft. So it's a good thing to know about the record like this.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0152par0686	He didn't even know her name. He's talking about her. He doesn't know her name.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0151par0687	The other is Okan Acar. I ask God's mercy again for both of them.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0153par0688	God rest his soul. Thank you. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0154par0692	Mr. President, now speaking here on the stand just now, the Justice and Development Party MP reads a number of terrorist organizations' statements from the top to bottom, then goes to radio messages, which are being referred to by a terrorist ringleader again. There can't be such a meeting, Mr. President. Through the words and speeches of the terrorist ringleaders, this bench cannot be defiled, I condemn, I invite intervention.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0153par0693	I interfered, Mr. Akçay. You must have missed it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0155par0694	Why aren't you interfering with the AKP?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0156par0695	You don't interfere with the AKP, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0153par0696	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0157par0698	Mr. President, thank you. The speaker who was just speaking here insulted the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Turkish nation, the citizens living in the Republic of Turkey. It is an insult to the citizens living in the Republic of Turkey to read the statements of the leader of the terrorist organization, making the leader of the terrorist organization good here.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0158par0700	You used to call me Master Hoca.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0157par0701	It is not the right and right of any MP to speak for those who have caused the slaughter of more than 40,000 people.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0159par0702	You're a provocateur!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0160par0703	But it's not a crime to say, Mr. Ocalan. It's you, brother.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0157par0704	It is necessary to defend the rights and interests of the Turkish nation, citizens of the Republic of Turkey. You interrupted this speaker, but I want to say that you shouldn't continue. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0161par0706	Thank you. Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0162par0709	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we've asked for the transcripts, we'll see what they say in this General Assembly, how they talk. I'm reading a statement from Mr. Orator, HPG, who spoke for the AKP. He said, "I've taken notes, but we'll take a look at the transcripts together." After that, he quoted the records of two people named Agit (Agit) and اRojat), quoting from the records between the two individuals. Other than that, he expressed the statement made by the TK chief of the BBC. We'll look at the transcripts, maybe I missed them, and you didn't interfere with all of that, but after you put it out there, our orator told us that he had the right to answer... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0163par0714	Here you go, one more minute.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0162par0715	Mr. Osman Baydemir has made his statement in response to these statements. However, you can look at the past reports, Mr. President, where you only interfered with our security and stopped talking, I'm saying that that's not true.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0164par0716	He stepped in because he acted like a terrorist spokesman.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0165par0717	Shut up!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0162par0718	I'll say it one more time...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0164par0719	He's the spokesman for the terrorist head, he's making his statement, the president's intervention is correct.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0166par0720	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0162par0721	Guys, let me finish something.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0166par0722	I'm listening. Come in.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0162par0723	Mr. President, I'm asking you. Here, a few months ago, I don't remember the history of our Minister of Environment and Urbanism, here, from the bench, was a statement made by the senior officials of the KCK. So, I think it would be more appropriate, more ethical for you to take a look at all of this, see the transcripts, and respond by reviewing these transcripts. For him, the statements said here... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, Mayor, because I've been interrupted.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0167par0726	Yeah, that's enough, how long are you gonna talk to me?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0168par0727	That's enough! We're gonna ask you?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0169par0729	Congressmans, please... I'm listening, I'm listening, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0170par0731	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0169par0732	Mr. Demirel, I'll take a look at the reports...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0170par0733	Okay, I'm just gonna say one sentence.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0169par0734	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0171par0735	Don't let those who scream too loud be the ones who shout.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0170par0736	I'm going to say a sentence, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0169par0737	I hear you, Mr. Demirel, you'll have to go ahead with the reports, please.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0170par0738	I'll finish with just one sentence. We, here, want to find out who did this thing, Ceelanpinar, how it happened. If you're in, you're in! Accept this motion to investigate, and if you feel responsible for the families of the two police officers who have lost their lives, then I accept this motion to investigate and expose it together.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0169par0740	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0170par0741	And right now, we've got the parishes who were arrested after the coup, and the congregations who are conducting this investigation, and I'll tell you one more time, this has to come out quickly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0169par0743	Thank you. I'll take a look at the records...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0172par0745	In a nutshell, you mean double standard, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0169par0746	...if there is a similar explanation, my intervention is equally valid for that speaker.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0173par0747	Look, Mayor...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0169par0751	The People's Democratic Party has proposed a group... III. (PHP 4 = 4.0.6, PHP 4)
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0173par0754	President, we demand roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0169par0755	I'm going to vote for you, and there's a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Encu, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Dora, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Sancar, Mr. Furkcu, Mr. Botan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Akdoğan, Mr. Akdoğan. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0174par0758	It was two yesterday, why the raise, Mayor?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit01spe0169par0759	I'm starting the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0169par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 126th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The poll conducted before the group's vote of the People's Democratic Party was not enough. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. The People's Democratic Party's group proposal I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Congressmans, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 17/8/2016 (today), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. It has been suggested that the meeting of the General Assembly of Turkey's Assembly (10/219) main Council of Parliament's Charter (17/8/2016 Wednesday/2016) will be held in the General Assembly's union Wednesday (Today) in order to determine measures that should be taken under investigation of policies in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia. In favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, Mr. Gürsel Erol will speak first. Here you are, Mr. Erol.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0175par0023	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. When I start talking, I want to talk about friendships and friendships that should be valued in human life. There are friends in your life you can't forget. Here, when you were a child, your friends from childhood, your friends from the neighborhood, your friends from school, your friends from the army, your regular friends from the army... these are friends from the relationship of friendship, not by political thinking, but by ideological thinking, and in the time you live, you don't forget those friendships. Our 26th term Parliament has a very important mission to me in this sense. In our 26th-century Parliament, on July 15th, our 26th-century MPs are friends who have actually co-operated in the coup attempt by the terrorist organization against our republic, democracy and human rights and freedoms. In this sense, as we speak here, we must be able to be patient with our political party, our political opinion, no matter what it is, first with kindness, tolerance, understanding, listening to each other. Look, dear lawmakers, I'm an Ataturkist and Republican politician, known for my identity. Throughout my life and my political life, I have done anti-HDP politics, and I have strongly opposed all of PKK's actions in that region. But there's one thing that we all have to remember, and we all need to know: we're the MPs who are political in separate political parties, who appeal to separate electorate groups, and who have the expectations of voters as MPs. So, in this Parliament, no matter what the political opinion of this platform, no matter what the political party's opinion, instead of expressing it freely, instead of arguing with it, we should be able to fight to understand each other, to listen to each other. In today's speech about our group proposal... Of course, east, southeast is now involved in the next process, and it's at a high risk in today's events. Look, the PKK terrorist group's first act is the 1984 Eruh massacre. I mean, it's been 32 years. Over the past 32 years, our six presidents have changed, 12 prime ministers have changed, 11 of our chiefs of staff have changed, 27 of our interior ministers have changed and 23 governments have changed. Again, again, I think more than a month ago, Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivor made a statement from this bench, saying: "The money spent two years fighting terrorism from state's public resources is $1.5 trillion. Look, I'm a Tunceli MP, and I'm the only MP in the district of CHP. The government is struggling with an angle that only deals with terrorists in that area, but it's a wrong angle. Of course, the state will provide public order and public authority. But when the state maintains public authority and public order, it can't ignore public law, when it counts public freedom, that's where there's a violation of human rights, that's where there's unsolved murders, that's where there's justiceless executions. So, in this sense, even if we don't agree with the ideas of our Peoples' Democratic People's Party (HDP) friends, even if we don't embrace their political ideas, we should be able to listen to them, and we should be able to listen to them here. Not just from our own point of view, but from the point of view of the people in that area, they should be able to speak on this bench, and the Parliament should be able to show the courage to set up a research commission on this if necessary. Congressmans, July 15th was a turning point for our country. Of course, the State of Emergency was adopted in Turkey, and our governors' powers were differentiated. The governors have started implementing security policies on their own initiatives, both in the 81 provinces of Turkey and in the region, due to the State of Emergency powers, and I'd like to explain my own province. Tunceli is, in fact, a region that is geographically dominated by a terrorist organization in the countryside. So we have Ovacık and Pülümür roads, because it's a rural area, the PKK terrorist organization cuts roads in those areas from time to time. This time, the state has declared the area a security area from the same point of view, restricting people's freedom of transportation, travel, the state's security measure, the same as PKK's action, the victim of citizens. So it's equally wrong for the state to run a security-indicted policy in the region, just as it is wrong for the PKK to cut roads, to burn vehicles, to assassinate people there, to detonate bombs. Everyone in this country has the freedom to travel. You can't take away people's freedom to travel for any legal reason. A terrorist organization can block the road, but the responsibility of being a state is to ensure the safety and freedom of transportation of your people in that area. The logic of banning him is a false logic. What does that logic produce? The logic is to reverse the reaction of the local people to the terrorist organization, causing the state to suffer from its victimism. So in a sense, when dealing with terrorism, it's a result of the wrong practices of the state, where the citizen has the wrong view of the state. Dear lawmakers, if we fight terrorism alone, if we just see it as a terrorist, and we don't understand the facts of that region, if we can't really form a common mind to find a solution to the facts of that region, the problems in that region will continue for another 30 years, it won't be solved. Look, a member of a terrorist organization, dead or alive, costs the state $7 million. When a member of a family member dies, three members of the same family tend to join the terrorist organization. So security measures in that area are not the right measure under the fight against only armed forces and terrorists. Of course, it will maintain public order, it will provide public authority, but it's not just the right approach to combat a terrorist. Dear MPs, after July 15th, yes, in the streets, in the squares, in Parliament, a national unity, a view of understanding, and the national will actually stood next to secular republic, democracy, secularism. But our AKP MP friends are in the wrong definition as we speak from this bench. The national will does not mean 50 per cent of the AKP's votes; the national will is the seat of all political parties owned by 550 MPs in parliament. I mean, it's not a fair assessment that you think of national will as a vote of your own constituency, your own party. If we really want our secular republic to live, if we want the existence and independence of our state to live, then what we need to do is to ensure that the culture of reconciliation between ourselves, of the public, of the state, is rebuilt. The main reason why these coups have happened in Turkey so far is because our political leaders have only made party policy, but what this country and this state need from now on is that it needs leaders who will make decisions by the state and make political decisions with the identity of a statesman, and we need to be able to concentrate on that thought. It's not just a party policy in the state's restructuring, it's not enough on its own, it's going to be merit, but first of all, it's going to be loyalty to the secular republic. If you are not loyal to the secular republic, whatever merits you come to, when you reach a certain power within the state, we may face the same dangers in ten years before your own congregation can rule. I have a call from here to our President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President: Look, we've named our first throat bridge the Bridge of martyrs, which is very meaningful and true. Our second throat bridge is the name of the winner Sultan Mehmet Mehmet. Let's name the third Bosphorus bridge after Ataturk, who saved Istanbul from the occupation, who founded the republic; let's do the Ataturk bridge, and when Mr. President goes to open that bridge, I'm ready to cut the ribbon in front of Mr. President Tunceli CHP. If we are to agree, if we are to be able to achieve unity, tolerance, love, and mutual understanding, we must be able to understand each other. My sincerest thanks to all of you. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0176par0036	Thank you, Mr. Erol. The Republican People's Party will speak first against the group's proposal, Mr Mustafa Şahin, the Malatya MP. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0177par0040	Thank you. Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a pledge against CHP's proposal specifically on the east and southeast. I salute you all. In particular, of course, the Republican People's Party's proposal, there is a claim that the work done in the region in connection with recent events in the east and southeast is insufficient, and that the training services there cannot be fulfilled on time. Of course, when we looked at the work that we'd done in that area... about a year ago, if I'm not mistaken, this process began again in July 2015, with the arrival of a new era of peace and brotherhood in the region, where we could call our two innocent babies, where our police were shot in their homes at night. Of course, until then, as far as the AK PARTI authorities were concerned, it was really patiently, calmly, in silence, in order to build and build a new set of works in the region as far as we could. Of course, in this process, despite all positive steps, we see that this disease structure, particularly called the PKK terrorist organization, is trying to get out of it by killing two of our innocent policemen in a house that they entered at night, and then again in a policy of denial. Of course, within the well-intentioned work that we've done in the region until then, the development of the region, in particular, has taken serious steps to ensure that investments in the region can come, in the wake of the new peace and brotherhood of our businessmen in that region. Of course, in that process, the use of unusable grasslands, especially the use of pedestrians by our citizens, is seriously disturbing to some parts, and even if there were some small outbursts in order to undermine this process, we've always been in a state of calmness, sushule, self-restraint, but the last straw that carries the cup is that, in the peace and brotherhood process in that area, especially, the people of the region are slowly trying to break out of terrorist organizations and start to reshape the atmosphere around the state. Of course, in that process, we witnessed that our citizens, perhaps, had to make a choice, by seeing the power in terrorist organizations, were there for them, but in that process, especially, without blood as far as we could, we did the best we could to continue the construction and construction of the region from scratch. We've seen the forces in the local community, which support terrorism and terrorism, which have been disturbed by this process, have unfortunately been disturbed and have started the conflict environment all over again. In particular, the investments we've made in that region so far have been accepted by the people of the region, and as they've been clearing their ranks, we've begun the process where, with a little bit more confidence in the state, the nation will be able to merge with the nation, but unfortunately, with the work that the terrorist organization has done in that region, we've seen our young 15-year-olds, our sons, under the orders of those uncertain environments that they've been doing on the mountain, with guns, blood, tears, by raising our lives, unfortunately, by raising the virtue of virtues in that area, so that no work for humanity could be done. It's not possible for the local people to be happy about it. But we've found that the Kurdish people were never particularly patrons of that region, and we've found that the people who were uncomfortable with it -- the work they've been doing in that area for nearly 40 years -- have been trying to drown in the blood they've spilled in. But, of course, every time we tried to get the job done, we tried to get the work that we had done in the field of education and health to a better place for the reconstruction of that region. In particular, the work we've done in the field of education has begun, especially when the process of peace and brotherhood has been interrupted and right after curfews have reached a point where education can no longer be granted, especially when our children in the region are not to be victimised, especially with measures we've taken in that area, and we've already signed a separate plan and programme for those who remain in the area, and for immigrants, we've made new arrangements for them. The people of the region have serious satisfaction with the work we've done, but we can see that every time we look at the work done by armed terrorist organizations that have brought blood, weapons, and tyranny on that area, they're suffering from the work done there, and when we look at the work that's been done up there, especially when we look at the work that's been done, it's the AK PARTI that's been disrupting the process, it's the AK PARTI that's still coming out here so far, some of the elements are still trying to deflect the issue on their behalf. But with the work that we've done in that area, we've already seen how happy the people of the region really are, and in the work that some NGOs have done in recent days, especially in the squares, where the number of rallies has reached today, in a much better way. It's especially about our friends who have lost their lives... and in studies in the field of health, we see a very sneaky and despicable attack on all of our medical staff. From our teachers there who worked at educational institutions to education services, they bombed all of our schools, and they read in that area completely, cultured, cultured, dependent on their own culture, their values, and they gave it to our citizens every single time that people who were truly ignorant are much more important to them than they are to them because they have access to an infrastructure through them. On August 27, 2015, in Şırnak, on August 31, 2015, Dr. Abdullah Birğul Diyarbakır, until he arrived at the ambulance driver.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0178par0048	The police killed Shohmuz Dursun.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0177par0049	...on August 31, 2015, we have seen six medical personnel murdered in Şırnak, including two officers who were stationed at Uludere State Hospital on February 9, 2016, in Diyarbakır. In this process, especially while we've been working to increase the staff's wages for seizures and tuition to compensate for the victims of our people in that area, the furious armed terrorist organizations have seriously poisoned this process by putting pressure and terror on our employees in health care, in education services, in service to our innocent people who are serving in that area. Again, in this process, in particular, we know that recently, you know, they've detonated more than 30 tons of explosives, especially on the way to Diyarbakir on the sobering of villagers, and that our citizens have actually moved to the point where their bodies can't even be found in that area. Again, two or three days ago, with a study of our DMV, I just watched, unfortunately, that some of the poor people who are trying to take their word for it have the vilest phrases, especially to make it public. We certainly see that with the work we've done in this process, especially in the field of education, in the field of health, although we've done our best to rebuild and build the region, some troubled environments have not taken a clear step so far, at the point that they should always set their ranks. With these recent operations, we now see that the people of the region have cleared their ranks. In particular, we see that the work we have done is adequate in both the field of education and health, perhaps incomplete, but we are starting to do a lot of services in its proper place. Again, I express myself against the proposal, and I pay all of you my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0179par0055	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. In favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş will speak last. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0180par0059	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, on the anniversary of August 17th, I wish God's mercy to all citizens who lost their lives in the earthquake, and to express that we share the pain of their families. Dear friends, valued MPs; today CHP has a motion for the Kurdish issue. In his final motion, today's motion, I would like to rephrase that although he tried to make the Kurdish historical and political background of the Kurdish problem invisible by centralizing its health, education, economic size alone, we will not share it in content, but we will support the motion. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this motion literally makes you ask, "Where is the crime scene?" Who's the subject? Where are the Kurdish people? What's the Kurdish problem? So while we're describing this as the ruling party's orator, while the people of the region are afraid to even say "Kurdish," I'd like to rephrase that the approach, which is using terrorism, terrorism, and violence, has brought us to this day, as if we are talking about a country in space, where millions of Kurdish citizens do not live, as if there are not the most important problems in the country. Yes, there was no mention of the immigration, immigration, a burned-down city centre and seven district centers, and curfews that reached 1,659 days in total during the conflicting process since July 2015. I regret to inform you that the CHP Group has called for weeks of curfew, and I wish they'd done more research because the curfew has been going on for months now in Şırnak. Again, it is not said that 2,062 people, including HDP, DBP and democratic mass organisations, NGOs and 21 co-chairs, have been arrested from July 2015 to today. Apart from those who have arrived at human rights institutions, 5,700 people have been taken into custody during this period, friends. Again, there is no mention of the victims of TK operations and the trial of the coupgers because the CHP's only concern is to exonerate Ergenekon and Balyoz defendants, and they continue in real harmony with the ruling party in this regard. It's a vague motion, but let's try to open it anyway. Dear friends, during this conflict, 165 people were killed in protests, destructions and executions, while 259 were killed in the final coup attempt. In the blockades in Kurdistan, along with 856 people who lost their lives in Kurdish provinces, 1,539 people -- 1,539 people totalled with the special war resolution and concept of the AKP government -- 113 of whom are women -- have lost their lives because in the morgues, some of whom have not been able to receive their families' funerals. And in this motion, in particular, we'd like to make sure that most of the 856 people who lost their lives in the blockades were not missed as civilians, but this one was also missed. There's another massive wave of migration, and according to official figures, about 500,000 people have migrated from their own province, from their district. Despite all this violence, however, despite the policy of the AKP (AKP) which has escalated violence with the war resolution, it is a clear indication that CHP has so far thought differently from the Kurdish problem in its context, despite the policy taken together with the war resolution. Let's go to the beatdoor rally, when all the speakers at that rally used the word "Turkish" while describing the people of Turkey, they continued to use the word "Turkish democracy," "Turkish people," "Turkish people," "Turkish people," "Turkish people," "Turkish history." Even though Armenian, Greek patriarchs, Christian priests were called there, everyone insulted them, except Mr. Kilicdaroglu; such insults as the Armenian gangs, the Hajj armies, the descendants of Byzantines, the heirs of the Tekfurs, and the descendants of Konstantin have flown in the air. All Christians have been declared enemies again, and the account that is now being seen is an old account, where the water sleeps the enemy doesn't sleep. It has repeatedly been expressed in this rally. It's called a national agreement rally, and it's said that there's a great unity created by July 15th in this country. If, indeed -- please pay attention here, it's a matter that we care about very much -- if that's the case, there was an agreement before July 15th. There was only one difference before the coup attempt, including the coup d'états. The only difference is that during this period, the coupgers are not in this national agreement. In the coup laws against HDP and Parliament, laws bringing armor to the army, the CHP, DP, AKP and the palace were already acting together in the process of continuing the destruction of the Kurdistan. If that's the Covenant, this agreement already existed, there's no new agreement. They agreed on Kurdish hostility, agreed to reject Kurdish identity, language, faith, identity. So, as overrated as it is, there is no historical agreement, no compromise. There is the continuation of ordinary nationalism and racism. Let's name it. Mehmet Agar, Tansu Ciller shows up on democracy watch, Veli Küçük is on stage again. Invited to the Covenant, invited to the new stage, murderers of the ancients, gangsters, thieves and corrupters. A monogamous, fascist, nationalist front is presented as the second struggle for salvation, where Alevis are excluded, Kurds are excluded. First of all, we're not in the 1920s, we're not in the Alekis, we're not in the old Alevis, we're not in the Kurds, we're not in the old Kurds, we're in the new nationalist, the monogamous front is fighting for democracy. They're putting together the foundation of democracy. There's no democracy in the country right now, let's not fool ourselves. Right now, there's a full picture of fascism all over the place. The State of Emergency is continuing at its full speed against all opposition to Turkey. Yeah, you know, there's a rumor like that. These days, they are called the three-letter letters. Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) has been treated the same way. The will of millions has been ignored. We called the main opposition party several times, but they didn't come to the Constitutional debates, and now they're acting like there's no HDP in sub-stairs. We are here, friends, and we are here to carry on the will of this people, the will of these peoples to the end. The orator mentioned us, poor thing, that he said, "I don't want to sleep, health, education." Dear friends, if Kurds are this far behind in economics, health, education today, these Kurds are concerned with the failure to meet their demands for freedom, equality, language. It's a state policy. For years, in a century of historical history, all governments have fueled and continued this policy. Well, now, the Republican People's Party is really caught up in the wind of the palace. Yes, there are no oppressed on this block, no Alevis, no Kurds, no differences. Mr. Kilicdaroglu, who has taken refuge in the palace's intercession, is also talking to us about coming to the legitimate floor. We are not worthy of the court, nor of the coupters, nor of the monotheists. Nobody advises us on this, we don't need any brains. But we want to make this call to CHP: O CHP! Look, this is not the way you enter, it is not the way of the palace; it is the way of those who kill the Berkins, Ali Ismails, and Medeni Yıldırıms, and burn people in the basements in Cizre. And he went running, saying, "I will not go away." And he said, "I will not go to the new door." And he whispered in his ear. This approach is not an approach to solving the Kurdish problem. Yesterday you're bringing us the presidency. The main opposition party, which said, today is negotiating and shopping at the Supreme Court, at the Court, at state institutions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They're really at the helm of power on this one. The Kurdish problem is not only the problem of education or health or economics; it is the issue of equal and free citizenship.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0181par0073	Equal equals...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0182par0074	Mr. Danış Beştaş, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0180par0075	Kurds want to live in this country with their own languages, identities, beliefs, and demand for status. I want you to see this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0182par0078	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0183par0079	My deputy made a beautiful CHP beauty, and we listened to it with pleasure from beginning to end. If you'll excuse me, we need to be clear on something.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0182par0080	Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0183par0084	I wonder where to start, where to start, but first I'll tell you this.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0182par0085	You have plenty of time, two minutes, Mr. Altay. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0183par0087	Yes, two minutes is important. The Republican People's Party defends the rights of anyone who is a victim, who is an underdog, and you know it. We are the party in this Parliament who first stated the existence of the Kurdish problem in Turkey. The Kurdish problem is not a problem in your monopoly; in the inequity of the problem, maybe you have as much to blame as the AKP, and you'll see that, that's one. Ergenekon, not the sledgehammer defendants, Ergenekon, we've represented the victims of the sledgehammer, yes, and we'll continue to do so. If you're still calling the Ergenekon and Sledgehammer cases today, I think you should examine yourself, and I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0184par0090	We've got the accused.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0183par0091	Besides, we have no cooperation with the AKP, that's fine, but you or AKP must first explain to us that the cups of coffee you drink in Oslo, Dolmabahçe, Imralı, Kandil have not cooled; what did you talk about while drinking those coffees, and what did one of you answer to this nation here? (HPP claps) Anyone who wants to solve the Kurdish problem solves it in Parliament, trying to solve the Kurdish problem by looking for another address outside this Assembly, but trying to find a solution to the Kurdish problem, it's feeding on the Kurdish problem. The Republican People's Party is not a party that feeds on blood, hatred, race belonging. Mr. President said he wouldn't go there if it wasn't a matter of state. And don't twist the general president's words. In the beginning, he declared that if there was a state crisis, he would go there. And I want to underline that in particular. I don't think it's right to use the blood of the Berkins and Ali Ismails on the CHP criticism. 133 members of the Republican People's Party have claimed the case of those children more than you. I don't think that's true. So you have a problem with power, if you're stuck in politics, you can't get rid of that area where you're stuck throwing mud at CHP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll tell you something else: Either you or Recep Tayyip Erdogan must explain to this nation that you have not been summoned to the defeat. I know why you weren't called.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0185par0098	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0186par0099	Tell us and we'll know.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0187par0100	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0185par0101	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0187par0102	Mr. Group Vice President's speech is purely abusive, I can tell you that.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0188par0103	Where's the teasing? We responded to the bullying.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0187par0104	That we're politically trapped, that we're being paid for coffee in Oslo, Dolmabahçe...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0188par0105	Yeah, what did you guys talk about? Explain the transcripts, explain the facts.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0187par0106	That the Kurdish problem wasn't just ours...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0189par0107	Okay. You're going to talk?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0187par0109	Ms. Meral will speak.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0189par0110	Here you go, Mr. Danış Beştaş, two minutes. Please, let's not cause any more bullying.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0190par0113	Mr. Vice President of the Group, we are only honored not to be summoned to Yenikapý.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0191par0115	Then don't think of it as discrimination.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0190par0116	We would never be happy to be in such a national agreement, such a front.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0192par0117	I don't know. If you were called, maybe you'd run away, I don't know that.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0190par0118	I think if there's something stuck in this, you have to explain to the people of Turkey, to your base. You're not gonna get away with this by attacking us like this.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0192par0119	No, we don't have any jams.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0193par0120	What is wrong with the new door?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0190par0121	We reject such a monotheistic approach because our reason for existence is pluralism. We're looking from a different place. The other one, you said: you've been doing politics over the course of solutions for years, through opposition. But, we've always said, we're behind that process. The only thing that will solve this issue is democratic politics, the opening of democratic political channels. But the CHP ate a lot of bread off this, and you really ate a lot of bread. I think it's time we expose this.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0194par0123	No one will believe you, don't bother.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0190par0124	We're not using the Berkins, just go tell their parents what you're telling them here. Explain to this country what you're really talking about in that palace, what negotiations you've made at the constitutional table without the will of 25 million, what you've been talking about in the HSYK structure, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, what you've been talking about, what's in its background, there's nothing we can explain. We're definitely with the victims on the sledgehammer and the Ergenekon. When I said "supposed," I said maybe I was a bit of a lawyer. I'm taking a step back on that, we're with the victims of the Sledgehammer and Ergenekon, but you've never said a word about the TK defendants or the 21 co-chairs now. Right now, our 21 co-chairs are under arrest, but unfortunately, the CHP continues to play three monkeys on this, so I'd like to thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0195par0127	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0196par0128	Mr. Altay, let me listen to you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0195par0129	Mr. orator made a clear challenge, claiming that we were eating bread over blood, through the process of resolving.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0196par0130	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0195par0132	We didn't say we'd never go to Yenikapı; we announced on the day the Yenikapı rally was decided that I and I would go as a delegation head of our Istanbul province presidency. Mr. President later decided to go from citizen, nation, public demand himself; it's a very good decision, we're behind it. We didn't get stuck because we went to Yenikari. I think because we've gone to the new door, we've earned the reputation, interest, appreciation of 78 million, one. [[Applause from CHP and AK PARTY]] So we said to power over the solution process, "Don't have a secret agenda, don't engage in an engagement that you can't account for." We said certain things, and in these circumstances we also give you checks. The Republican People's Party never abused the solution, and you turned the solution into a blood process. Whoever turned it, I'm not picking on it, I'm not talking about parties, someone's turned the solution process into blood. What's our fault in that? The Republican People's Party is the only party to bring the most objective solution proposals to this parliament that thinks very differently about the Kurdish issue than the other three parties in Parliament. Every other party has its own perspective on the Kurdish problem, and I respect that. There's only one solution. We said it ten years ago and now, we said the Turkish National Assembly. Let's set up a commission with equal representation here; otherwise the problem cannot be solved on the island, on the mountain, on the ridge. Why do you insist on not hearing this? Let's set up a fact-finding commission.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0197par0137	Tell him there!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0195par0138	Why are you ignoring me? You can't hit the Republican People's Party on these issues, not over blood, not over spite. As for the TK defendants, have mercy, fear God.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0198par0140	Why are they the accused, why are they the accused?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0199par0141	Why are they the accused?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0200par0142	Why the defendant?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0201par0143	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0202par0144	The Minister of Justice has published a list of 80 times, and our MPs have visited this one. The Minister of Justice has served a list to the press because he went to visits where our MPs didn't go. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They went to the Kurdistan Workers' Party, but they went to the DHKP-C. I said to them myself, I say again: There is a Republican People's Party in Turkey with all the victims, whether you want it or not, it's as simple as that.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0201par0148	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0203par0149	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0201par0150	Mr. Demirel, let me listen to you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0204par0151	Mr. President, this is coming back to an open session, not like this, let them talk about these things outside. We don't care about their competition.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0205par0152	Come on, we're fighting because of you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0206par0153	Mr. President, it's not right for Elitaş to intervene while the group's vice president is standing.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0207par0154	He told me, so let me decide. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0206par0156	In his statement, Mr. Group Vice President, you've turned the solution process into a process of blood.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0207par0157	No, no.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0208par0158	No, I never said that. I don't mean the parties, I said.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0206par0159	Yeah. I mean, who was leading the solution process?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0207par0160	Mr. Demirel, I don't mean the parties, I don't mean the teasing.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0206par0161	Then he said he didn't mean it, but he said it after he said it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0209par0162	He fixed it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0207par0163	No, no. Maybe, I don't mess around and I don't mean parties. Please...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0206par0164	Mayor, I'll tell you, listen.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0207par0165	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0206par0166	At first, he said, "You've turned the solution process into a blood process."
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0207par0167	Yeah, I don't mean the parties either. He said.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0206par0168	So, who's here, who's President, who's supposed to be here?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0210par0169	Parties, I don't mean here. I said. I meant the focus of power.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0211par0170	Oh, come on.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0206par0171	He said that we thought differently about the Kurdish problem, that our approach to the Kurdish problem was different, and that we set up an equal commission in the process of resolving... as if we didn't say that we should set up commissions in parliament, as if he just said the CHP Group.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0212par0172	He didn't say anything to you, we said we did it ourselves. There's no teasing you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0213par0173	No, Mr. Demirel, I listened to Mr. Altay very seriously.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0206par0174	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0213par0175	Is it over? Are you done yet?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0206par0176	Mr. President, in Mr. Altay's speech, there's a very clear taunt about our group. I mean, it's like we're taking the solution with the AKP... so, they may not take it on themselves, but we're taking it on ourselves. It's obvious who you mean by "you." You've turned the solution process into a blood process. We have to bring an explanation to that, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0214par0177	You're being touchy, you're being touchy.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0215par0178	Look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0216par0179	Mr. Demirel, please...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0217par0180	That's what he said. I wrote it here, you can look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0216par0181	Mr. Altay said that right after the second sentence, I don't mean any party, I don't mean any party, I don't mean anyone who does it. he said. Please.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0217par0182	Mr. President, there was a HDP delegation in the process of resolving, so...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0216par0183	Mr. Demirel, Mr. Altay has not mentioned the name of your party, I am not teasing any party." he said.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0217par0184	But when you say "no," who's in the group here, President?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0216par0185	Mr. Demirel, please, look, I'm trying to be as equal as possible, and I'd like to make that clear.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0217par0186	Well, let me ask you this:
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0216par0187	But Mr. Altay didn't pick on you by targeting your group, but I don't mean any parties, and I don't mean any teasing." he said. Please, let's follow each other in good faith.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0217par0188	So let's make it very clear that by "you," you've turned the solution process into a blood process. What does he mean by that?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0218par0189	He doesn't have the right to question everything here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0216par0190	He obviously didn't mean your party.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0217par0191	Then I'll tell you something, Mr. President, to make sure he gets a statement on this.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0216par0192	He obviously didn't mean your party, please. He went on record, said he didn't mean your party. Please, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0217par0193	Then I'll say a few words to get it to the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0216par0194	You did, but I mean, you've been talking for two minutes, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0217par0195	I demand a say in this, Mayor, I demand a say in the name of our group.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0216par0196	One moment, I promise you, please... We're back again, friends, we're talking here, but the walls of the House are still there.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0219par0198	Yeah, me, too.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0220par0199	Then get a member of the commission.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0216par0200	Please, I'm telling all of us. Here, wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0221par0204	Now, Mr. President, our goal here is to actually solve the Kurdish problem, to try to solve the Kurdish problem.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0222par0205	There's no Kurdish problem, there's a PKK problem.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0221par0206	Yesterday, I said Kurdish provinces, and you reacted from there. Yes, Şırnak and Hakkari... why are we going through this today? We're bringing Şırnak and Hakkari. We're lowering the province status to borough status on the Commission today. This is the approach to the Kurdish problem. That's where we have to discuss these problems. We all have to present these problems here by setting up a commission. We have to investigate. So this solution process is the most important process in this process that we stand behind and support. If the solution had continued, so much blood would not have shed so much tears. That's why I'm saying this coup would have never happened. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0223par0208	Thank you. It also includes the Republican People's Party's group proposal, a summary of the purpose for the study of policies implemented in the East and Southeast Anatolian region to determine the measures that must be taken.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0224par0210	We said we'd support it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0223par0211	Why is there an argument? And I don't understand that either.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0224par0212	Can't we support it by criticizing it? That's democracy.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0223par0216	Mr. Adnan Günnar, MP of Tripoli, will finally speak against the Republican People's Party group proposal. Here you are, Mr. Günnar.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0225par0219	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I salute you all. In the August 17th earthquake, this nation, along with all its segments, had been with its political parties, as it ran to the earthquake site, and shared its money in its pocket, its home bread, along with its national will in the July 15 coup attempt, along with the CHP, with the MP PARTİ, with its Kurds, with its Turks, with its Turks, with the LazÅ, and with its tanks in the squares. Dear friends, the most important sentence I've noticed in the Republican People's Party's motion is the issue of the Kurdish problem. Yes, there was a time in this country when the Kurdish problem was almost impossible and courageous to speak out, and in the end, our president and founder, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, who came to power at the will of the nation, had a Kurdish problem in Turkey, and it was our duty to solve it. In this regard, our state, our government, has done everything they can, and now in our country, not the Kurdish issue, but the Kurds and Turks, in short, the PKK problem of the Republic of Turkey. In exchange for the PKK's problem, all political parties must meet on the PKK's issue, acting with one understanding of our people and with the same understanding of our people. Today, when we sincerely listen to our citizens who have gone to Eastern and Southeast Anatolia for the sole purpose of a tourist trip, we are able to observe that much larger and more important investments have been made in that region than the Black Sea Region or the Interior Anatolian region, and that our people are pleased with all the investments the state has made. Health, economic and social problems in the southeastern Anatolian region are the result of the pressures that the PKK, DAEŞ and even the PKK have put on our people in that region. The problem is the bombing of hospitals, schools and ambulances, the screening of officers, employees, and our people to the mountains, even though all state resources in that area are equal to the average of Turkey. So we are happy to see that despite the coup attempt on July 15th, public services are still being conducted in a healthier way, especially in relation to the southeast and in relation to East Anatolia. Because the government of the Republic of Turkey and the state of the Republic of Turkey stand firm with its nation. From all bank transactions to international transactions, thank God -- this country was not affected by the world's most bloody coup attempt in the past, along with the launch of a tiny copy of the Constitution manual. My dear brothers and sisters, since the morning of July 15th, the work of Parliament was over, I went to my hometown like many of my fellow MPs. At about 10:30 p.m., we went to the office of the President of Tripoli, the AK PARTY, with the fear of a coup attempt. We have seen our people gathered in the square of the city in front of the AK PARTI province building, and at this meeting, when I looked on the balcony of the party during these gatherings, I sensed that the political views of this nation, the national will, the country, the people, the flag, and the state, were a complete deterrent when it came to our brothers and our fellow citizens who were willing to join the EC PARTI. The Republican People's Party has just gone to Yenikapı. We applaud the statement of the Republican People's Party's Party deputy. With the will of the nation, the Yenikapi was there for Turkey, for our country, for our nation, for everyone who lived in Turkey, and for every opinion. However, those who have a sense of tolerance for DaES, PKK, and the terrorist organization have not been able to reach them, or those who have not been able to condemn them for a single day. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear brothers, Turkey needs unity and unity. The world is greater than five. To carry out its statement, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who represent everyone and everyone living in Turkey, must maintain this unity and unity. I believe that Turkey is open, that with terrorist organizations such as Turkish nation and the Islamic world, ▪, DAEŞ and PKK terrorist organizations, all the organizations of certain countries and large forces of the world will be in vain by Allah's permission; that unity, without leaving the union, sincerely, brotherly feelings, we will strive for our nation, our flag, and our republic.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0226par0229	Thank you, Mr. Günnar. ll. - Exposure [[A group of CHP MPs stood up]] I will submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes, but there is a request for roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0227par0233	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit02spe0226par0234	They're on their feet, let's do it later. Mr. Altay, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Yiğit, Mr. Bektıoğlu, Mr. Sertel, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Emir, Mr. Kayşoğlu, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Atçı, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Yım, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Yfriend, Mr. Boy, Mr. Göker. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0226par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 126th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The polls held before the Republican People's Party's group's proposal voted were not enough. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes the group proposal of the Republican People's Party that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0228par0011	Mr. President, I asked for your word.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0226par0012	Mr. Akçay, I'm sorry, you asked for a promise. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0228par0014	But I mean, it was important before the vote. I was going to say something about the vote.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0226par0015	Were you going to say something about the vote? I'll give you my word after the vote. I said, I thought we had a deal.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0228par0016	Well, I'll tell you anyway, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0226par0017	Okay, here you go. One moment, please.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0228par0021	Mr. President, thank you. In the group proposal given by the Republican People's Party Group a moment ago, the MP speaking on behalf of the AKP had a statement called the state that would be devastated by the launch of a Constitutional brochure. I'd like to say that we found this extremely misleading, exaggerated, and wrong. It's not like that. There must have been some trouble. It has been overrated by some forces, but the economy, for example, has been able to pull itself together within a year and carry out the most basic reforms the country needs. After these reforms, the Justice and Development Party ruled. Politically, there's no need to be ungrateful. Second: CHP's... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0229par0026	I'll give you one more minute. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0228par0028	This motion carries the declaration of the solution to the Kurdish problem. We, the National Movement Party, think there is no Kurdish problem in our country. Kurdish people have no problem, but imperialism and abusers have a problem, a problem with terrorism. There are those who exploit ethnic structure, an ethnitism, and feed on it, who pursue certain goals. We also think that this Kurdish expression is out of fashion. Perhaps one thirty - forty years in Turkey has been expressed as a fashion expression, but the developments have also expressed that truth. So I'd like to also state that we voted against the motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0230par0031	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Members of parliament, according to the decision, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We continue our talks with the draft Law Bill on the Establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund and some Law and Legislative Laws and İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, which is ranked in the 1st ranked 1st place, and the Plan and Budget Commission Report on the sale of Agriculture Lands that belong to the Treasury in the name of Treasury, as well as on the Protection of the Developments of Forests. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The talks on the first chapter of the Law Bill 411, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code, were completed in the unification yesterday. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Law on the Development of Forest Villages of 19/4/2012 of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi and Article 1/571 of the Law on the Sales of Agriculture Lands of Treasures, as well as Supporting Developments of Forest Villages No. 6292 and Advocating Places Outside Forest Borders for Treasures. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamayligil Musa Pine Aytüğ Ater "The burial licenses are issued after a dead examination by municipal medical examiners. This service is provided by physicians who will come from a common guard pool of community health centers and family physicians, such as the permit without municipal doctors." Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first article of the Law Bill 411 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel Abdullah Zeydan Nihat Akdoğan Besime Konca Saadet Skilled Ferhat Encu The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Does the commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0231par0063	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0230par0064	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0232par0065	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0230par0066	Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen will speak first on the motion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0233par0069	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, there's actually been a change in the law regarding the burial licenses in the bag we discussed. The same attempt has been made before, and the Court does not accept it. He did not approve the authorization of family physicians and community health centres. Now we're trying to get the prosecution to go through the legislature that they won't accept again. Actually, it's the view of the judiciary, which reflects where we see the role of the State in the legal system, but I think we've gone through it, and it's much more serious than the situation where I'm now talking about the arrangement that I'm talking about. Dear lawmakers, Turkey passed a critical turn on July 15th, but when we look at the assessments of July 15th today, unfortunately we do not realize that we did not properly evaluate the process that went on that night, and that what was done after that took place could bring us back to the same point. Dear lawmakers, we do not feel the need to make arrangements for Turkey's democratisation if we do not consider that a coup was taken overnight, or that it was planned in just a few months, even if it was a matter of weeks. We're dealing with a political mind, not with a victim or responsible, criminal psychology, who knows almost everything, who has done everything right, but has survived a painful blow. But the blows can't be assessed like that. Dear lawmakers, I won't go in too long because I want to mention something else, but 30 years ago, an important study on the world's coups was published in April 2016, and an assessment of Turkey entered that edition. You can read this as a conspiracy, so here are foreigners who knew about the coup in July, so they entered that book. You can say sociological analysis, but the book contains all sorts of sociological analysis, and it says: "If there is exclusion, camping, discrimination, this compression and this monocentred authoritarian sense of power explodes with coups." Now, how was this power created before July 15th? What is the political institution's share in this, what is Parliament's responsibility, and what is the share of local governments? If we don't get into a confrontation about this, then actually, when it comes to this point, we'd prefer to confuse the political institution's share of the coup when the responsibility is to be put on the table; we'd rather turn to other social opposition actors, attack them, then draw attention to them in a different direction. In fact, the initiative for the Agenda newspaper is part of it. If you don't want to talk politics about this process, if you don't want local governments to question your share of the power that has come to this point, you'll have other fictions that have been under interesting reviews for a few weeks. For example, there is a fiction called the ▪-KCK relationship, which is said to be the one where they meet on a roof, where the higher mind manages them. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, remember a while ago you were telling me that the KCK operations were done by the same person who sabotaged the process. Now, either that's true or that's true, but I think -- we don't know if there's a superior mind or not -- your mind is very confused about this. If you close a newspaper, legally, even though the court's decision is to investigate, as if the court had decided to close it, if you lock the door, press the writers' homes, arrest them, you will be doing a job in this country that only fuels violence, deepens violence, and you will not be contributing to democracy, nor will you have a will to prevent new coups. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0234par0077	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. The other speaker of the same motions is Mr. Erhan, MP of Samsun. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0235par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, from time to time, there are assessments of some difficulties in the Parliament, especially in Turkey's economy in 2001, which do not reflect the truth at all, and have been severely unfair to that period, and such casual talks are spoken. I'm going to try to explain a little bit more about the economic climate of that period, as much as my tongue turns to you, because it's really a serious injustice. Now, what did he just say, like a speaker? In 2001, the government was devastated by the launch of one of the brochures. The 1990s were actually very difficult years for developing countries as well as for Turkey. In 1991, an Iraqi crisis, a Gulf crisis had a serious impact on Turkey, Turkey had its own crisis in 1994, Russia had its own crisis right next to us, the Asian crisis in 1998, Turkey in 1999 -- the international conjunctural conjunctive again -- and a country that experienced the largest earthquake of the century. Then comes a government. The first thing the government does as soon as it comes in -- I'm talking about the 57th government -- is to immediately change the banking system, the Banking Law, which is the coalition partner of the National Movement Party, in the first two months. Now, the government of that day is accused of banking. For God's sake, can that happen? So in two months, the government screwed up the banking system, and that's the kind of need for reform? Right after that, social security reform is being done. I mean, look, in such a troubled environment, it's the government that's done a huge reform of social security right over the earthquake. Now, the reform process continued until the end of 2002. The budget... there's no budget, there's black holes, so it's patched into a bundle, over 10 percent of national income, public deficits. I mean, can you imagine, over 10 percent of the national income has been compromised. In such an environment, the government has taken over an economic environment where public banks have been completely damaged, the CITs have been damaged, and all the problems have been swept under the carpet, and has launched a reform process. In terms of public deficits in the 1990s, it's extremely bad for public finances, but in terms of growth -- despite this, according to the thirteen years of today's AKP governments, 13 years -- alone in terms of growth in the 1990s -- is much better when we compare it to other countries, which is something else. But, of course, the public finances are very corrupt. What's important is that both the public finances and the growth are good together at the same time. Now, a program is being launched at that time, and it's not just based on that government, it's being carried out by 2008, see. I mean, if you don't like that program, if you're criticizing that program, why did the AKP continue that program until 2008? Now, when the program is launched, all areas are being reformed head to toe, no way to escape populism, no way to act on short-term vote anxiety. As a matter of fact, the government who did those programs, because of the sudden election that made those reforms, because of the fact that the work couldn't be helped, three of the parties are suddenly stuck at the dam because if they were politically treated, the dam could be overcome, but it is treated as a statesman, and if Turkey had experienced some good things since then, then Turkey owes its reforms. Now, in 2002, it's an anachronism error, so there's inflation. See, in 2002, the government's coalition partner in the National Movement Party is the lowest inflation of the last 25 years, and the target has been transferred to an inflation of 29 per cent at 35 per cent, so inflation has been brought to 29 per cent from 100 per cent, public deficits have been reduced, growth has been increased. I'm going to argue from here that the friends of the economy, if they have any ideas here, say: inflation as a rakam -- and all indicators of 2002, except for the public debt stock, are better than today, all indicators of the government that you don't like. Inflation and public debt stock... his reasons are obvious. You brought inflation from 100 percent to 29 percent, and the process continued. If the government had continued, the government would have experienced one-digit inflation. The reason why the debt stock is high is not because our debt is actually lower in previous times, but because of the programmes applied, because of transparency, because of the right public finances, it's because of the numbers of debts made in the past. So, apart from the two indicators, a government that's much better than today, whose performance is much better, it's so cruel, unfairly critical, irresponsiblely critical... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't think it's right. I've been promised to express it. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0236par0096	Thank you, Mr. Master. I will submit the same motions to your votes. ll. - Exposure
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0237par0100	We have a roll call, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit03spe0236par0101	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Danış Beştaş, Mr. Konca, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Encu, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Türül, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Akdoğan, Mr. Zaydan, Mr. Basan, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Botan. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0236par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 126th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call was not enough for the meeting before the vote of the amendment motion on the first amendment of the bill. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. Now, I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Now I'm going to read and process the final motion on the item: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Law on the Development of Forest Villages of 19/4/2012 of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi and Article 1/571 of the Law on the Sales of Agriculture Lands of Treasures, as well as Supporting Developments of Forest Villages No. 6292 and Advocating Places Outside Forest Borders for Treasures. With all due respect. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends "The burial licenses are issued after a dead examination by municipal medical examiners. This service is provided by physicians who will come from a common guard pool of community health centers and family physicians, such as the permit without municipal doctors." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0238par0021	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0236par0022	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0239par0023	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0236par0024	Mr. Aytuğ Thrower will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0240par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on the First Amendment of the Bill of Law on the Building of Turkey's Entity Fund. As he values human life, I salute lawmakers who respect the dead, regardless of their faith, race, and political opinion. Dear friends, we're talking about a burial license. Dear friends, I mean, we're all talking about a document that we're all going to need, that we're all going to need. Where are we talking? It's in a bill on the asset fund. Vaim. It's even more severe, the law is about the Fund of Being, and there's no Entity Fund in it. Now, there's no need to get any further, that's how you run the country: there's images, there's no sound; there's no sound, there's no image; there's no sound; there's no sound, there's no image; when the sound and the image are together, there's confusion, there's nothing to understand. That's where the whole problem starts. Look, you brought in a family medicine bill, and in the past few years, we were strongly opposed. Even if it's half-assed, you took it off. Then you cheated on the doctors, told them you wouldn't give them the burial license. Soon after these doctors became family physicians, you said to them: "I am going to break my promise and you will give me the burial license. " Naturally, the court went to court and cancelled it, and you can't do such a thing." What are you doing now? You make it a bill of law, and you order it by law, and you tell doctors and family physicians that you're going to give it to them, and we say, "The state keeps its word." The government and its rulers don't lie. They don't deceive their people or doctors. On the other hand, you have to give burial licenses to the dead. Okay, come on, let's do as we propose. So until a person's death is buried, or even until his further condolences, the municipalities who have taken the job as a whole should also give this burial license through their own physician. If his physician is incompetent or on leave, then let's build a pool of family physicians and physicians at the community health centre in that area, build a seizure system, and let them come and give him the burial license. That's our proposal, and it makes sense. This must be accepted in such a way. Dear friends, now that we're talking about giving away the burial license, it's about the dead you can't even license to bury. There are times when you can't even find a body to give you a burial license. Saturday Mothers are still waiting for their children. You guys are arguing about who's gonna give you the burial license to find those kids. Our citizens, our citizens, die in Syria, die in Iraq, can't bring their funerals here. These people disappear, they disappear, you don't bring these people into our country to bury them, you don't bring them into our country. However, the timeless burial licenses, our young children, our martyrs, our young ones... you're giving them a timeless burial license. Does it matter who gives you the burial license? We're out. You, in my country, are obliged to prevent untimely deaths. Is that enough? It's not enough, you're doing worse, giving people a burial license before they die. In the Ergenekon case, in the Sledgehammer case, in a number of cases still going on, they got a burial license because of you before those people died, and they got into the ground before they died. So, yes, it's important to give burial licenses, but we must not let the young taste death, and they must not die because of us. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0241par0035	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. The motion is to vote... ll. (PHP 4 = 4.0.6, PHP 4)
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0242par0039	President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0241par0040	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Danış Beştaş, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Toğul, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Botan, Mr. Zaydan, Mr. Irmez, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Yıldırım. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 2 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law Bill 411 be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal MADDE 2-18/12/1953 was changed in the form of οnοn οf the 6200 State Water Affairs General Directorate, which was included in the fourth joke of Article 9 of the Act on Offices and Tasks of the State Water Affairs Directorate. Congressmans, I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to introduce and propose the amendment to the establishment of the 411-trial Fund of Turkey and to the amendment to certain Laws and Laws of Laws and to the amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi (; 19/4/2012) Historical and 6292 Forest People's Developments and to the adoption of the Lands Out of the Forests in the Treasure Name of Treasury), as well as to the amendment of Law Against the Law on the Sales of Agriculture Lands of Treasury (2/571). With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Selin Sayek Böke Mehmet Beklıoğlu Bihlun Tamayligil Utku Çakırözer Zechariah Haziel MADDE 2-18/12/1953 was changed in the form of the Fifth Amendment in the fourth article of Article 9 of the Act on the Agency and Missions of State Water Affairs Department No. 6200. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law Bill 411 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel Besime Konca Saadet Capable Abdullah Zeydan Ferhat Encu Nihat Akdoğan Mehmet Ali Aslan Selma River Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0243par0078	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0241par0079	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0244par0080	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0241par0081	On the motion, Mr. Selma River will speak. Here you are, Mr. River.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0245par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. I've made a commitment to express my group's views on the motion, but I'd like to talk about something more important, something that is now on the agenda, perhaps the beginning of a new process. The issue of the districts of Hakkari and Şırnak is, in our view, the country and the region's most important problem and agenda. People have been trying to express themselves around here for days, like they've been doing for months. But no one is listening to them or trying to understand what they're trying to say. The issue of the districts of Hakkari and Şırnak is, as you all know, a political issue. It's a decision made by political arguments, purely on the basis of security, and in a sense, to take revenge, to take revenge on these areas, and that's how it's put into practice. How do we know this is how it happened? For a long time, there have been applications for Cizre to become a district of Turkey's southeastern province. Despite Hakkari and Şırnak's efforts to improve, no steps are taken, all of which are ignored. The number of problems have been expressed on this bench several times, but the decision of the 2 districts and the district of the provinces has been made at once today. We also understand that especially after the election and often after the authorities here have responded to the problems that have come to them. You deserve these consequences, and you deserve to be treated because you have to know who to vote for. If you vote for HDP, of course, that will be the result. The authorities who say, "This is what the opinion and ideas are actually taken in the sense of, what authorities are responsible for, what arguments they are created with. Now, in a meeting with a friend of ours from Haqkari, Mr. President, this is an ancient city, an ancient city with a history, a history of 8,000 years. I'd like to say a few words about that, if I may. The rock paintings of Hakkari Gevaruk Valley, Trischin's plateau, and the region of the region of,,,,,,,,,,,, xX) have been discovered to have a life of hunting and agriculture in the local neolithic age before Jesus. Again, before Jesus was mentioned in the 13th - century paper of the Assyrian nail, it was referred to as Uruatri (Uruatri), meaning the region of the mountains. I'd like to pass along another piece of information like this. Since the 2nd century before Jesus, this region has been the capital of many civilisations, both culturally and socially. Hakkari also has a wider area in cultural and historical context than today. At the time of Mr. Hakkari Miri Nurullah, the Mirullah was active in Çukurca, Yüksekova, Şemdinli, Çatak, Baskale, Uludere, Beytüşşebap, Zaho, Amedia, and there is no need to mention the political activity outside these regions. The Haqkari region is a place where many religions actually exist, where there are many beliefs. It comes at the beginning and the beginning of Judaism, persecution, Nasturiism, Islam, the cults of Kadiri and Nakshibendi. And it's also a place that has brought many valuable artists to literature and art and has hosted it. We can say the same about Şırnak. The city of Noah, yes, but Noah refuses to be a city. He doesn't say yes to a change against his will. Its name is Hakkari, and its territory is Hakkari. His name is Şırnak, and he cannot be the city of Noah. Forced name-calling is a sense of forced captivity, a sense of forced slavery, a sense of disregarding his will. In this sense, there is also a change of name and forced change, forced district building, and not to do the district when it has its will, against its will, and then not knowing the will of the district and of the district, and of the people of the region. What does that mean? I don't know you, and I won't know you anymore, no matter what you do. Is that an invitation? Well, then, I guess the locals have a decision to make for themselves. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0246par0098	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund No. 411, and the Amendment of the Law of Some Laws and Laws, and the amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, in the following manner of Article 19,4,2012, the Support of the Developments of Forest Villages of the Dated and 6292, and the Advention of the Lands of Agriculture in the Treasure's Name of Treasury (2/571). With all due respect. Bulent Kuşoglu (Ankara) and his friends MADDE 2-18/12/1953 was changed in the form of the Fifth Amendment in the fourth article of Article 9 of the Act on the Agency and Missions of State Water Affairs Department No. 6200. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0247par0107	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0246par0108	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0248par0109	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0246par0110	Ankara MP Blunt Kuşoglu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0249par0113	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. Now, this second article may seem insignificant to many, but it's a very important substance. While we discussed this in the Plan and Budget Commission -- of course, there are 80 clauses -- we haven't been given a deadline, we haven't been able to meet enough. Now, in short, the issue is that in 2011, you know by decree of the law, the ministries and institutions were created. At that time, State Water Affairs was reorganised with a decree under law. It's actually an old, old institution. At that time, it was a special budgeted administration while the addition was well-funded, and officials from the Finance Ministry began to hold the DSI's accounting account in accordance with the new accounting system. There's also a sentence in the law decree that the financiers would work there for five years. Now, they've worked for five years, and in the ninth month, I think it's filling up, and we're extending it another five years. We'll say, "What's wrong with that?" Now, about the work of four or five officers, we're setting up a law here, once this, that's a mistake. There's no law against that, one. Second: a public institution does not send officers to another public institution, it does not provide hired officers. There's no such policy in the state, there's no such thing as public opinion. As a public institution, you'll hire officers from another public institution, you'll keep your books. That's not the way it is in the government. Those who know the state, the statesmen, the statesmen, they know that. Is that even possible? Besides, let's say something happened, something had to be done, it's already been done for five years, it hasn't done anything, it's wanted for another five years. This is the General Assembly, Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and this great Parliament is unfortunately occupied in this regard. But here's the thing: there's a Supreme Court audit in 2013 about the State Water Affairs General Directorate. Nothing's been done, so it's a blank report. But in 2014, the Court audit report was one of the thickest reports in 2014, and all the findings... look, there are five findings of the Court's State Waterworks; there are performance inspection reports, and there are three findings related to it. All the findings are related to the accounting department, and the accounting department isn't working well. We're sitting here now, extending the length of this not-so-good, leased, financed accounting department for another five years. Yeah, can't an old firm like the DSI set up an accounting department? Can't he build such an old institution? Can't he have four men? Well, look at the work he's taken, the men from the Treasury; the highest criticism of the Court is related to these issues, see the errors made: the fact that all non-residents belonging to the DSI General Directorate have not been registered. He hasn't registered their residences yet. This is the 2014 report. 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, four years later, this process has not been processed. اBulgu 2-Security costs for large repairs and renovations should be taken into assets, but the expense accounts should be accounted for in error, miscalculated, miscalculated. It's a disgrace. And the Court has a proposal, the court's supervisors. First, an IT system must be created in the DSI. It's the right thing to do, or it's not about hiring people from the IRS. A public organization doesn't hire people from another public institution, it doesn't exist. He says it has to be done, it hasn't been done. The information is not to be taken into the account of the material assets, which are relevant to those who have been followed by investments. Those who know accounting know, they're terrible. We extend the mandate of officers from another agency for hire in an institution where there's been so much disgrace. Does that look like you? Is it right for the government to bring something like this? It's a scandal. Of course, the ministers sign whatever bureaucrats bring in front of them. Mr. Secretary is a successful minister of the DSI, but he doesn't know anything about it. At the most, especially in the departments of engineers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we're going through this kind of shit. But literally, it's a disgrace, it's a nuisance. I'm supplying. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0250par0124	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0251par0128	Request roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0250par0129	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Danış Beştaş, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Kürkçı, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Gedalı, Mr. Figurul, Mr. Botan, Mr. Akdoğan, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Yıldırım. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law Bill 411 be changed in the following way. Kadir Koçdemir (Bursa) and his friends MADDE 2-18/12/1953 was changed in the form of οnοn οf the 6200 State Water Affairs General Directorate, which was included in the fourth joke of Article 9 of the Act on Offices and Tasks of the State Water Affairs Directorate. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0252par0144	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0250par0145	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0253par0146	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0250par0147	Mr. Kadir Koçdemir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0254par0150	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group for Article 2 of the Law No. 411, which began as the Foundation of the Peace Fund of Turkey, but does not have any evidence in it. At the beginning of my words, I salute you all. The 2nd article increases the five-year period set in a temporary article of the Law on State Water Affairs Agency and Jobs to ten years. So, what's the five-year deadline for? In 2011, it was a provision that allowed the State Water Affairs accounting services to be run by the Finance Ministry, and within five years, it was envisioned that State Water Affairs would find a solution. I looked into the reason why he was brought in. It's on page 9 of the printed text you have. There's a lot of Turkish errors in there, even for a reason. There are mistakes even in sentences when you mention that your time is almost up. Guys, we've been busy with things like this since the legislature we've been through since November 1st. Many of the laws we've discussed here are the changes brought in two or three years ago, and the changes that, when brought in two or three years ago, were very hasty, were not allowed to negotiate, to understand. Now, if there was a will in the House and it didn't extend the temporary clause, what would the State Waterworks do in a month? Will one of Turkey's most radical institutions, such as the State Waterworks, be unable to do accounting? This is not a good way to go, folks. Democracy is more than a number and a vote, and the legitimacy of decisions produced in democracy is in accordance with the envisioned procedure. When this procedure is violated, it is not possible to argue that a legitimate decision has been issued here. Unfortunately, we see that this pattern is constantly violated, especially in our schedules, holidays, working hours. The ancients have a beautiful promise, saying: "If the Grand National Assembly of Turkey does not sit down in this constitutional system, if it does not fulfill its duties, it will always have to correct the mistakes of bureaucrats. We've seen many examples of this. For example, before June, we passed laws on visa exemptions from the European Union here until 2:00, 3:00 a.m., until the morning. We also said then, in the Law on Protection of Personal Data, we said: "Friends, the European Union has changed its affinity on this issue; this law has been drafted according to the situation before; let's write this down in a calm manner, and let's re-write it in accordance with the new acquisitor." I've been told. What happened then? Of the five things we've been deemed lacking in the 72-point road map, one of the five was that the Protection of Personal Data Law and regulations on the independence and personal data of the institution and the board failed to comply with the European acquish. We'll probably bring it back later, we'll work here till the middle of the night again, and we'll vote before we know what's going on. Friends, if we look at the evidence, not at what it's called, not at what it's called, but at who's word, we don't use the power of attorney that people give us here. For him, the Nabi have a saying - Mr. Minister's namesake - says: "The state needs to make a decision." If we decide in a hurry -- the measures you took after July 15th are the same. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...obviously showing himself - we have to make these kinds of decisions over and over again. So, we say, come, let's extend it for a year and let the DSI take its own precautions within a year. I'd like you to reconsider the acceptance of our motion, and I'd like to pay all of you respect.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0255par0159	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0256par0163	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0255par0164	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Konca, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Danış Beştaş, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Gügen, Mr. Gündalı, Mr. Toğul, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Botan, Mr. Akdoğan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Yıldırım. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. The merger... Is there? Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0257par0171	Mr. President, you said no. Now it's shady.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0258par0172	Read the name.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0255par0173	Don't let the compass people out, please. Serkan Bayram? Here. Nurettin Nebati? Here. Sami Dedeoğlu? No. Hadji Ahmet Özdemir? Here. 164 with me...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0259par0179	Look at the system.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0260par0180	No, Mr. President. That's shady. We don't accept that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit04spe0255par0181	There's not enough of a meeting. We're taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0255par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 126th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The roll call, which was held before the vote of the amendment motion on Article 2 of the bill, was not enough. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. We'll resume the talks of Bill 411. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the following way, we propose and propose the amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of the Peace Fund in Turkey and for the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws of Laws and the amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, dated 19/04/2012, to the Development of Forest Villages No. 6292, and the Protection of Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of the Treasury, as well as the Value of Lands of Agriculture (2/571). With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Selin Sayek Böke Mehmet Beklıoğlu Bihlun Tamayligil Utku Çakırözer Zechariah Haziel It is dated 3-31/8/56 and added temporary material to the 6831 Law of the Forest. "Current Article 10 is the property of service facilities and maintenance facilities, which have been built, operated, operated, or operated, and operated by the General Directorate of Highways before the date of the implementation of this clause, and are run by the access control of the highway. If these buildings and facilities are found in state forests, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs can be allowed to transfer to the General Directorate of Highways for free." Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the Law Bill 411 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel Besime Konca Saadet Capable Abdullah Zeydan Ferhat Encu Nihat Akdoğan The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Erkan Haberal Muharrem Varlı Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0261par0042	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0255par0043	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0262par0044	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0255par0045	On the motions, İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu will speak. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0263par0048	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, this is not the way to make a law. It's not the kind of law enforcement law you put in a bag for years, mixing everything up and putting it in a bag. Neither the natural massacres of the law are built in the areas of the community nor privatisations nor the appointment of trustees to municipalities, nor the districts of municipalities are being made by pluralist, territorial, a mind that consults people, and even the Parliament's will is being brought in at the last minute, and the will of parliament is not respected. So, just like this, my pledge is to bring back the legal case of destruction, looters, and roads that have already been created in the forest areas. There's really no need to say another word about it. Today, after the coup attempt, you're talking about national unity and unity. But really, what you're trying to apply with these laws right now is nothing more than a majority conviction, and you're continuing to apply another impact mentality. We really want to know what unity and unity you're talking about. Are you specifically referring to the national unity and unity of HDP and several opposition MPs established while removing immunity? Or are you talking about the national unity and unity you've established when you bring immunity to the military forces who massacred and then found that most of them were coupgers? Or are you referring to the national unity and unity of the constitution with the mini-packs you created after the coup attempt and the Habituary after the rally? By ignoring 6 million voters, 20 million people, all kinds of opposition, color, and the will of the Kurdish people in the first place, you cannot form a national union, a union, or a legitimate constitution. There's only pressure and shame in this union, and then there's deception, and there's nothing else. Every day, the MPs who stand on the stand talk about people who are martyrs after the coup attempt, remember them, but at the same time, the doors of the Assembly are pouring open to visitors and they show the places that have been bombed. Okay, very good. But don't you have any responsibility to these people? You guys, did you sign up for the coup commission? You did the same thing with the Anti-Semittery Commission, you put a member of the commission on insistence. Now, if there's going to be a union against the coup, then why don't you run the coup commission? Why are you stalling people? Isn't there a commission set up here? I'd like to address our people as we pass the parliament around... a coup commission has been established in this Parliament, all parties have co-signed a statement, but this Impact Commission is not working because the Justice and Development Party has not signed this Commission and does not want this Commission to work. And why is that? Do you want to confuse the target, or does this coup have no political wings? Were there no politicians involved in this coup attempt? Are you afraid to face them? Yes, I'm afraid you've been carrying everything around for years and years, but not three or five years; for 30 years, we've been talking about the organization of the congregation for 40 years. Books were written, research was done, journalists were written, they said. Is this going to stop being the Fethullah Gulen Community because you got up and named an organization? So you've formed a new organization? Is this going to be an organization? Is this a new arrangement? No, we walked together on the roads that you guys planted. A structure you sang about. Instead of dealing with a coup attempt, you're dealing with us. You're using the coup as an opportunity to destroy any opposition, but as I said in the beginning, I'm telling opposition parties: don't be supportive, you'll be destroyed. There's only shame and pressure here, democracy and democracy, and there's no crisis; there's no blow, there's no blow, there's no blow, there's no reckoning. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0264par0054	The other speaker of the same proposal is Mr. Muharrem Varlı. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0265par0057	Mr. President, I have received word on our group's motion. On this occasion, I salute you all. In this article, the transfer of forest terrain to the highways on the side of the road is legal, which means it's pure. There's a lot of stuff in this bag of laws, but you're always collecting them. It's an AKP classic, which has been in October for years, in November, in December, when it's on vacation, the Parliament goes to bed; when it's on vacation, it's a bag of laws, it's a bag of laws; you bring it here, you put it in front of the House. I mean, you do this all the time, it's your classic, it's typical. Now, one of the things that caught my attention here is that when it comes to forest areas, we think about problems in Turkey about 2/B. So we're still having a lot of problems with the sales of land 2/B. So the price differences between one village and another village of one county. So if it's called two thousand liras on one side, it's called 5,000 lira on the other, it's called a thousand liras on the other side, and it's called a 6,000 lira on the other side, and it's put in very high rail prices, so the farmer can't buy it, and the farmer can't have it with his own means. Thus, there are other suitors in these lands, and as a result, disagreements arise there, and God forbid, there may be disagreements that will lead to bloodshed. It's up to you and us to figure it out. I've brought it up over and over again, and I said, "Come on, let's set up a commission on this. Let this commission go to work in the districts, call the heads of agriculture, call the district managers, call the governors there, and let him get information, and let's put a price on it, and let's put a price on it. But every time he's in your ear, he's out of your ear because you don't have this concern, you don't have this problem, you don't have that problem, you don't have that concern, you don't have that concern, you don't have that. You're giving everyone something here, and there's nothing in this bag of legislation about a farmer. So, you passed the All-city Law; after the All-city Law, the 2/B land there is troubled, and now its sale is troubled. We need to make a legal arrangement about this, and I'm telling you over and over again, this one doesn't exist. When we do something, friends, we have to first calculate the priorities of the people who live there, grow, farm, put their sweat on the ground, try to get their offspring out of that land; we have to figure out how they can buy this land, what money they can buy it with. But, as I said, you're here because you don't have a problem with farmers, and you're going through that ear. I just had an off-the-book conversation, and I said, "These corn prices are unaccounted for. Now the farmer harvests the corn. It's been about 20 days, and the price of corn is still unknown. My dear friends, look, listen well here, as of July 1st, the price of corn is $800,000, and now the price of corn is between $660,000 and $670,000; I'm saying it with old money. Is that the answer to God's favor? This has come to this as a result of your wrong policies. Is a product worth this much in 15 days? But it's falling, why? Because you don't. If there's an office, I'll buy the corn at this price. If he says, "The market will suddenly rise, but no, you want the merchant to collect it from the farmer's hand, so that when the farmer has run out of goods, whoever wins -- the drivers -- the farmer will win, and the farmer will watch and lose again." There's no way you can protect a farmer in this country with that kind of logic, keep the farmer alive, and the farmer earns money, and the children of his people can't afford it, my dear friends. Every day when you're having breakfast at home, while you're having hot tea, this farmer who produces hot bread, cheese, tomato, cucumbers. Remember these, for God's sake. Again and again, warn your government to immediately instruct this TMO to set this price. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0266par0066	Thank you, Mr Varli. I will submit the same motions to your votes.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0267par0070	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0266par0071	We've got a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Karabiyuk, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Arık, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Kayşoğlu, Mr. Akar, Mr. Akayın, Mr. Tuğün, Mr. Büçüçün, Mr. Büner... I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the Law Charter for the Establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund, 411 rankings, and the Amendment of the Law on the sale of Law and Laws of Laws of some Law and Laws of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, dated 19/04/2012 and the Development of Forest Villagers No. 6292, in the name of Treasury, and to change Article 3/571) in the following way. With all due respect. Haydar AKAR and his friends It is dated 3-31/8/56 and added temporary material to the 6831 Law of the Forest. "Current Article 10 is the property of service facilities and maintenance facilities, which have been built, operated, operated, or operated, and operated by the General Directorate of Highways before the date of the implementation of this clause, and are run by the access control of the highway. If these buildings and facilities are found in state forests, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs can be allowed to transfer to the General Directorate of Highways for free." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0268par0088	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0266par0089	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0269par0090	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0266par0091	Mr. Haydar Akar will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0270par0094	Mr. President, we're talking about a bag of law enforcement. The bag also envisions the sale of a lot of public property, the sale of public property, which is envisioned for privatisation, which is to be created as a financial resource by removing all available resources. Well, there's so much need for this financial resource that I'd like to share with you how the country's financial resources have been squandered. I'll give you an example of a bid. You might say: "To such a tender, everyone would like to receive such a tender." You can probably guess where I'm talking about, I want to talk about Osman Gazi Bridge. Yes, if you know the truth of the Osman Gazi Bridge, if you know how much it costs, and you know how much it has given those who built that bridge in twenty-two years, you can see how the state has been robbed, how resources have been drawn to other sides while trying to create so many possibilities. Again, your Minister said that 40,000 vehicles had been delivered, they had been targeted for 20,000 vehicles, but I asked for official numbers, and I said: how many vehicles passed between July 1st and July 26th? 1,207,000 vehicles passed between July 1st and July 26th. When you look at it, it's like 40,000 cars. But don't forget that there are holidays and free passes between one and eleven. Between July 11th and July 26th, only 207,000 vehicles passed by are equivalent to the car; the truck, the truck, the bus, the car were calculated; the car was equivalent to 207,000 vehicles. When you divide 207,000 vehicles into the number of days, you see that it doesn't get 15,000 numbers per day. We can't get 15,000, but we've guaranteed 40,000 crossings. It's not just that, for the 15,000 vehicles that passed -- let's say 15,000 straight roads -- we're paying 10 dollars because there's been a discount; it's not a correction taken down in the contract. It's $10 for a government-issued payment on a vehicle. That's $500,000 a day, guys, $500,000 a day. The government pays $3 million a day for the remaining 25,000 vehicles for the Osman Gazi Bridge. In total, $3.5 million a day is paid at the Osman Gazi Bridge. Now you can say, what is 3.5 million for this government? I'm talking about the daily price. The construction cost of the Osman Gazi Bridge is 2 billion 355 million dollars, according to the Ministry's own report, which is 790 million dollars when you convert it into today's dollar bill, so Osman Gazi Bridge costs 790 million. So, what's the annual salary of 40,000 vehicles? $512 million, so in a year and a half, the price of the Ottoman Gazi Bridge is up, my friends, in a year and a half. Do the math, I'll bet you anyone, in a year and a half.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0271par0099	You miscalculated, the calculations are wrong.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0270par0100	There's the remaining three years of business construction, 19 years, 512 million a year. I'm saying two years, the rest of the 17 years are citizens who are going to put $512 million in their pocket. Now you're saying that the government needs revenue, that you bring in this bag of laws to sell public goods, that you let the state get robbed on the other side. If you have a little faith, if you really think about the government, if you think about the right to an orphan, then let's do the math together. (Applause from CHP rows) The most you compared was the Homey Dam -- the Prime Minister of that period, the current President -- the Nesty Dam, the Nesty Dam. You were destroying the state. They called it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0272par0101	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0270par0102	The cost of the Nestie Dam is 4.2 times the cost of the company's business production, which is 15 years of guaranteed water purchase in the Nestie Dam. It cost $512 million, $2.3 billion, which was paid at the end of 15 years. We pay 11.2 floors on this bridge, 11.2 floors. If the state's being robbed, if the state's being damaged, the state's been damaged, maybe you're right, but on this bridge, the state's being robbed, the government's being robbed, and you're looking at it. I'm asking you to sit down and we'll do the math together, the official numbers of the Ministry are here.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0273par0103	Let's do it together, let's do it together.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0270par0104	Do we need a bridge? I do. Do we need a road? I do. Should these be done? It has to be done. In doing so, I'm saying that it should be to protect and protect that orphan's right, not to transfer to the allies, not to rob the state. There really is a great deal of damage to the government, a big robbery. I call this tender a life sacrifice, and I'm telling everyone to give it to me like this, but it's really not true.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0273par0105	Let's do the math together.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0270par0106	Let's do the math together if we have to, the numbers are here, so I can introduce them to you. If you don't believe me, ask your Minister, and we'll keep doing it. I give you all my love, my respect.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0274par0109	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I will submit the motion to your votes. ll. - Exposure
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0275par0113	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit05spe0274par0114	We've got a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Karabiyik, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Arik, Mr. Akar, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Kayşoglu, Mr. Tuğün, Mr. Akayın, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Division, Mr. All, Mr. Öz, Mr. Öz, Mr. Purcu, Mr. Serthel. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit06spe0274par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 126th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0274par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 126th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the talks of Bill 411. Commission? Here. Government? Here. There are three motions on Article 4 that I am reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the following way, we propose and propose the amendment of the Law Bill to the Establishment of the Peace Fund in Turkey and to the sale of some Laws and Laws in accordance with the development of Forest Villages No. 19/04/2012, and Article 4/6292, and Article 2/571 of the Law on the sale of Agriculture Lands that belong to the Treasury, as well as the assessment of the Lands of the Forests on Treasure Names. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Selin Sayek Böke Mehmet Beklıoğlu Bihlun Tamayligil Utku Çakırözer Zechariah Haziel The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 4 ▪ 6831. Article 11 - According to Article 93 of this Law, the facility, which is permitted according to Article 93, is a factory or a tradehouse under Law 6762, and if an acquittal has been issued by the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office as a result of a court hearing, such facilities can be rented for twenty-nine years from now, as of the date when this clause is in effect. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 4th article of the Law Bill, 411, be removed from the draft text. Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal The signatures of the other motion are: Çağlar Demirel Besime Konca Saadet Capable Abdullah Zeydan Ferhat Encu Nihat Akdoğan Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0276par0032	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0274par0033	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0277par0034	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0274par0035	Mr. Müslüm Doğan will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0278par0037	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, none of us have any doubt that our country has suffered a great disaster. Our people's consciousness of democracy played a crucial role in the failure of the intended coup. In order to develop this consciousness, for our peoples, we need to get rid of the democratisation of the republic in a new process of building, the psychology of sovereign nation and sovereign faith. Otherwise, the new sieges of the oligarchic bureaucracy will serve as possible impact processes. In 1919, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk also welcomed the Kurds as his own brothers and brought them together to a point where he pointed to the democratic nation that today needs. Honourable lawmakers, Turkish peoples and Kurdish peoples and other peoples must unite on the basis of the democratic nation. There's no other way out of this process. I'd like to present to you a number of key subjects on the constitutional plane of the state's main establishment, which were introduced in the form of documents in 1918 and 1921. These are the basics in the constitutional plane of the state's main establishment: The Turks and Kurds have decided to live together on their common home. This decision was made on December 2, 1918, along with the foundation of the Legislative Court of Defense. This decision was established in congress that united Turkish and Kurdish representatives, as explained by the Grand National Assembly, when Turks and Kurds fought side by side in the Battle of Salvation and won their homeland together. The common country is expressed as the area inhabited by Kurds and Turks and other peoples. The common republic, the founding will for the nation, actually sees people as a compound vector. So, the Grand National Assembly is the common Assembly of Turks and Kurds, and the government of the Republic of Turkey is defined as the common government of Kurds and Turks. ==History==The Kurds and Turks were originally founded by the founders of the republic at the time. In terms of common identity and brotherhood, these two constituent elements are also described as two components of the common identity, one nation, the democratic nation. Turkey is also under the rule and control of the Grand National Assembly in terms of autonomy management in the region. Finally, it is also stated that the Kurds will benefit from all rights on the basis of equal citizenship as the founding elements of this country. So, what happened to the decision made by this founding will that didn't come to life, and the problem grew so far? The only problem is that, in fact, the dominant nation and its dominant belief system has been transformed into a formal ideology, and faiths and languages have been tried to destroy it. There is so much diversity in the struggle for democracy that the struggle of the Islamic people, the struggle of the class, the political struggle of the Kurds, the struggles of the Alevis, unfortunately the current official ideology, has faced heavy interference from the state. I'm afraid the balance sheet in the last 40 years has exceeded the extent our people would lift. The cry of the peoples, the cry of the faith, continues to be heavily suppressed. We've been talking a lot about the rebuilding of the state while these findings have made it clear to us exactly where the coup was going to take the country a month ago. Actually, we're right, but we're almost too late. However, the State of Emergency regime, which was intended to develop after the coup, has led the government to wrong and difficult processes to repair. Decisions and decrees under the rule of law are strategic decisions about the state's future, not related to the process. These decisions should be discussed in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The bypass of the Turkish Grand National Assembly is a coup against pluralist democracy. You can't build a state by shutting down newspapers, arresting intellectuals, turning to democratic institutions. Legal regulations are required in accordance with the state of emergency in order to terminate these functions of areas which have been introduced after the July 15 military coup attempt and are reserved for use of military space in urban plans in various cities. The problem here isn't that these places are downtown. The issue is that military custody cannot be removed from our democracy. It's about democratizing oligarchic military bureaucracy...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0279par0054	Thank you, Mr. Doğan.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0278par0055	...the matter of turning it into a transparent public institution must also be dealt with simultaneously. My respects.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0279par0058	Thank you. On the same motions, secondly, Mr. Erhan-sama of Samsun will speak. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0280par0062	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are now demanding a amendment to the Law of the Forest. I want to tell you a little bit about this, the first version of the bill, and then I'm going to be like this. There's a court order in the first form of the bill. The court says: "Filance is a forest land. " But the item in the bill was making an arrangement to make this court lose its forest quality for what it calls a forest. You have to say that right from the start. They say it's private. Of course, if there's any other place for that quality, it's not very well known, but Burdur is also said to belong somewhere in Burdur. Now, this is clearly against the Constitution. So with the law, you can't let anything lose that quality of forest. The Constitution violates Article 169. Of course, when we put up a lot of resistance to that in the Commission, a change was then made, and this clause came in front of us. What do you want to do with this stuff? Again, in this article, such as the factory, which has been established, within four years from the time the matter was put into effect, the General Directorate of the Forest could rent for forty-nine years. Now, of course, the interesting thing is that it's actually a change in April 19, 2012. So again, there's been a temporary exchange of materials, which was given the opportunity, and then there's been a 29-year window of opportunity, so it hasn't been processed. Why wasn't it done, how did it happen? Yeah, we don't know that part. But it does occur to you that, you know, that the arrangement came out then, but, of course, rent, rent, buy this place, because it doesn't work for those who are interested in it, so it's possible that, you know, by making a law change, all of this would be able to change the quality of the forest and sell it in a way that might have been entered into an idea. Yeah, that's part of the speculation. But it's clear that once the government brings us something that is completely unconstitutional, and the strange thing about it is that what is clearly contrary to the Constitution is defended, and the bureaucrats who come there are left to defend this article that is contrary to the Constitution. A little technical meeting, and the bureaucrats themselves admit it's unconstitutional. I mean, that's not cool, that's not gonna happen. So, first, of course, now, here's the thing, sir, here's the actual forest, there's the legal forest. What is this? You're going to burn the forest, you're going to tear it down, it's going to be ten years, it's going to be 15 years, it's going to be 20 years, and then you're going to say, hey, is there a forest here, and you're going to call it forest land, so give it to us, we'll build it, we'll buy it, we'll sell it. That's not gonna happen. So burn, destroy, destroy, and then there's the actual... If we do this, there won't be a forest, everyone will burn down a place, and 15 years later, they'll come here because there's no forest, and this time they'll make it stop being a forest land. In this case, there will be no forest in Turkey. Of course, this factual situation, this legal situation, it seems familiar to us. Especially in a choir before July 15th, there is the government of the Justice and Development Party, the authorities, the MPs, the government's rulers. There is an actual situation, sir. There is a final situation in particular about this presidential system. There is no such thing in the legal state. You won't recognize the law, you'll create a de facto state, then you'll follow the law from here on out. The same head in the woods, the head in the presidential system, the same head. That way, there's no law state. We've seen where this kind of behavior leads this country. I hope he learned a lesson from it on July 15th. We don't hear about these things right now, we're relaxed, but, of course, there's no guarantee that we won't hear about it after a while. So, friends, we need to make the law right, we need to do it in accordance with the Constitution. If the Constitution is wrong, let's sit down and change the Constitution together, but if there is a Constitution, then there is no rule of law, no denominator. That kind of thing doesn't work in the state of law. The law makes the law right and upholds the law. As long as we don't do this, we won't be able to save the country from chaos, chaos. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0281par0067	Thank you, Mr. Master. I will submit the same motions to your votes.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0282par0071	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0281par0072	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Konca, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Aslan Beştaş, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Toğul, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Geğin, Mr. Geveri, Mr. Geveri, Mr. Özturk. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the following way, we propose and propose the amendment of the Law Bill to the Establishment of the Peace Fund in Turkey and to the sale of some Laws and Laws in accordance with the development of Forest Villages No. 19/04/2012, and Article 4/6292, and Article 2/571 of the Law on the sale of Agriculture Lands that belong to the Treasury, as well as the assessment of the Lands of the Forests on Treasure Names. With all due respect. Mehmet Göker (Burdur) and his friends The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 4 ▪ 6831. Article 11 - According to Article 93 of this Law, the facility, which is permitted according to Article 93, is a factory or a tradehouse under Law 6762, and if an acquittal has been issued by the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office as a result of a court hearing, such facilities can be rented for twenty-nine years from now, as of the date when this clause is in effect. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0283par0089	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0281par0090	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0284par0091	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0281par0092	Burdur MP Mehmet Göker will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Göker.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0285par0095	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 4th Amendment of Law 411. I salute your high council. Article 4 of the bill adds a temporary clause to Forest Law 6831. If an acquittal has been issued by the state's attorney general's office for the factory or the tradehouse, it is estimated that it could be rented for forty-nine years in four years. I support this law on behalf of my own country, and I believe that the Burdur factory of Burdur will be resolving the land of the burdur tractor factory, which has been discussed in Burdur for many years and has been unresolved. However, I stress that the bag bill is a total disaster. As a country that suffered much from coups and coup attempts, I condemn this initiative with hatred and regret on July 15th. Governments are temporary, states are permanent. And in our country, it's time for the integrity system to kick in. Yeah, it's August 17th. It's been 17 years since that great destruction. Once again, in this natural disaster, we realized that buildings, not earthquakes, are killing people. May God have mercy on the souls we have lost. It is hereby proven by scientific reports that Burdur State Hospital, as I mentioned earlier, is unsubstantiated to the earthquake. With 3,000 people coming and going a day, it's urgent. There is a search for a place to build a state hospital that has been adopted into an investment plan. 50 acres of Burdur's sugar factory land, thought to be privatised in this scope, can be separated for the project, and Burdur will solve a very urgent and important problem. On the other hand, it is on the agenda to get military troops out of the province. Burdur's economy can be breathed out by the military union and the campus of our university, which is also located in Burdur, outside the province and in the middle of the mountain. Yes, although it is considered to be practically expensive, this project is not a very important place when you think about the life, cultural development and economics of the entire city. Therefore, it is evident that the SEC and the Ministry of National Defence can easily resolve the problem by making a joint attempt at an initiative. The other issue is the assistance of our lawmakers, with the help of our ruling MPs, especially today when this social solidarity is on the rise, for some reason only by exclusion of opposition municipalities. We expect this to be reconsidered, and the assistance will continue to grow to include opposition municipalities. On the other hand, 11 of our teachers have been suspended from membership, including seven from Burdur/Education and four from Education You. This is not something that can be explained rationally; it is a configuration based entirely on personal hatred and hostility, within the initiative of our State National Education Manager.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0286par0104	Because of social networking.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0285par0105	There's a fucking......... The other issue is that the milk producers in Burdur have not been able to collect support fees for four months. On the other hand, there's a surplus of demand for cream again. In this regard, the government needs to get ahead of the producer's victimism by planning to support it as soon as possible. Finally, the construction of the cultural centre, which was launched earlier, did not continue, and the building was thus decomposing due to lack of construction and lack of funds. If you think about it financially, Mr. Secretary, there's no way the city of Burdur can handle it. We'd like the Ministry of Culture to step in on this and have the building processed. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0287par0110	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0288par0114	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0287par0115	We've got a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Kara, Mr. Öz, Mr. Karbık, Mr. Karbıç, Mr. Kayşoglu, Mr. Ycıkmen, Mr. Yım, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Göker, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Çamak, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Sertel, Mr. Tanal. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, there is a request for an open vote on Article 4 of the bill. Now, I'm going to identify the names of the lawmakers who are in demand, and we're going to make a statement that they're in the General Assembly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the opening vote of Article 4/4 of the Bill of the Law shall be held in the form of a clear vote on the establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund, which is currently held in 411 rows, and on the amendments to certain Laws and Laws. Mr. Göker? Here. Mr. Adil? Here. Mr. Tanal? Here. Mr. Berberoglu? Here. Mr. Turkmen? Here. Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0289par0133	I beg your pardon, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0287par0134	Mr. Altay. Mr. Tamayligil? Here. Mr. Kayishoglu? Here. Mr. Özdemir? Here. Mr. Karbük? Here. Mr. Kara? Here. Mr. Pine? Here. Mr. Kusoglu? Here. Mr. Dogan? Here. Mr. Özdish? Here. Mr. Oz? Here. Mr. lion? Here. Mr. Irgil? Here. Mr. Iron? Here. Mr. Zeybek? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. An open vote will be carried out by electronic device, according to the decision taken. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the law, I declare the conclusion of the open vote of Article 4 of the Law Bill No. 411: ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] Ali Haydar Hakdi Fahmi Cubic Thus the fourth article was accepted. There are three motions in Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "placement" in Article 5 of the current Law Bill 411 shall be changed into "passing." Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Sea Depboy Erkan Haberal Kadir Koçdemir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "winning exceptions" in Article 5 of the Common Law Bill 411 shall be changed in the form of "instruction: modified." Çağlar Demirel Besime Konca Saadet Capable Abdullah Zeydan Ferhat Encu Nihat Akdoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the Law Charter for the Establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund 411 and the Amendment to Some Laws and Laws of Laws, and the 5th Amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, dated 19/04/2012 and the Development of Forest Villages No. 6292, and the Appreciation of Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of Treasury, in the following way. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Bihlun Tamayligil Erkan Aydın Ali Yigit The title of Article 20 of the income tax law, dated 5-31/12/1960, was changed into "Early education with children and older day care centres and an exception to gain in education and teaching businesses:" and the term "pre-school education" in the first sentence of the same article was added with "kresh and old day care homes" to the second sentence of the same joke. Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0290par0188	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0287par0189	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0291par0190	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0287par0191	Mr. Aytuğ Thrower will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0292par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article 5 of the Turkish property fund bill. I salute all lawmakers who want children to receive modern, secular, democratic education. Dear friends, with this clause, we bring tax exemptions to daycare and daycare centers for the first five semesters, which is a very good thing. The first five-term tax on daycare centres from day care centres encourages these day care centres and day care centres, which is good. So, when does this go on? 1/1/2017. Dear Commissioners, for a clause you started in 1/1/2017, we say, "Come, let's apply it to all daycare centers immediately." But the irony of it is that a female commissioner opposes it. We say, Mr. Congressman, Mr. Commissioner, that we support women. These women, women in Turkey, get married, have children, then one in four women get divorced because she can't take care of her child. We encourage day-care centres, day-care centres, women don't get divorced, they take their kids to these day-care centers, they get good care, they get modern education, they get all the day-care centers, and you call it no. History will write it, write it, and we'll sing it. If only there was a male commissioner sitting in your place, then it wouldn't have burned for me. I'm a pediatrician. I know exactly what conditions these children are being cared for, what times these children's brains have developed. The number of children between the ages of 0 and 4 is 6 million and 768 in our country. Look, the plague of 6 million 768 thousand children is on all of us. We say we don't want to carry this plague. Let's give these kids preschool education and encourage these day care centers. And you say no. Look, I hear women's voices coming out of you, but I don't understand what you're saying, and you'll probably say no. Congressmans, look, if you say no to this motion, you'll be obstructing the encouragement of all day care centers, so these mothers will have trouble sending their children to day care. We want all day care centres to be free, in fact, the law commands that if more than 50 people work at every workplace, the daycare is mandatory. It's a pity that you can't manage our country well, and unfortunately these day care centres don't open. When the daycare doesn't open, she can't leave her child and go to work. Ladies and gentlemen, women's employment is 30 per cent in Turkey, not my number, but the number of your government. OECD average is 47 percent. Now, in this case, for the sake of God's sake, let's add women to the workforce, but the children are our future, these are our children, and while they're struggling to raise them well, some of them jump up and say something. There's only one thing you can do: vote yes to this motion. This is your job as a woman and as a client and as a human being, and it is our duty as men. We have to do this. If we don't do this, both our children's development and women's workforce will be reduced. We don't want to go under this burden, we say: "Now, I don't know if you're afraid that the day care centers and day care centers will be supported, tax-free, and that all of this will be free in time, just like in Europe. But if it works for you, these children will get secular, contemporary education, I don't know if you're afraid. Good evening.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0293par0203	Thank you. ll. - Exposure
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0294par0207	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0293par0208	We've got a roll call. Mr. Çam, Mr. Kara, Mr. Atıcı, Mr. Adıcel, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Kayşoğlu, Mr. Yım, Mr. Türkmen, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Y friend, Mr. Göker, Mr. Karabıyuk, Mr. Çayuk, Mr. Bektasloğlu, Mr. Bölkoğlu, Mr. Böncüçer. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration "in the form of an exception to gain" in Article 5 of Law Bill 411, which is currently in session, be changed into a "instruction." Mehmet Ali Aslan (Batman) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0295par0222	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0293par0223	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0296par0224	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0293par0225	Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0297par0228	Mr. President, I salute Mr. Court and the General Assembly. This is the first time I've ever had the pleasure of seeing so many friends in my conversation. Of course, we have a suggestion about day care and day care centres, and I suggest that we also teach children in kindergartens with their native language. When you say education in the native language, don't immediately think of Kurdish. Some 16 languages are spoken in this country, including Arabic, Syriac, Armenian, Circeçian, Lazca, Romanic, and many languages. Of course, we didn't get a chance to talk about the coup. We strongly condemn the coup from here. Would you believe that while watching television on the night of the coup, as the ministers were talking, I thought the HDP MPs were speaking because democracy, the elected people's will was mentioned, that tanks, the cannons needed to be walked against the tanks, the tanks, the cannons needed to be stopped, the people needed to be on the streets. Of course, then I found out that the AKP MPs, the ministers, said that. I'm afraid you could only feel what we've been saying for years on the night of the coup. I'll tell you this: Friends, I've shown you before, on December 29, 2015 -- and you see, on December 29, 2015 -- this is the Chief of Police Batman Police Director, and when I asked a civilian police officer about his identity, he said: "We are the state. We are the government." And he pushed me. I am the state. He said that the police commissioner you saw in that photo. And while I was showing it, many of the MPs from the ruling ranks, oh, did well. He was saying things like that, but it's interesting that the same Chief of Police had been caught in Zaho. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) He was caught by the Gulanist movement because he was in contact with them. Let's compare it to the same person who said I'm the state, and now the ones who caught him say I'm the state, and we've filed a criminal complaint.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0298par0233	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0297par0234	We filed a criminal complaint, the D.A. gave us no follow-up. Then the D.A. was brought in, and whatever it is, I applied to the governor's office again, so he could start an administrative investigation into the Chief Constable. The current Governor of Batman Ahmet Deniz has not yet launched an administrative investigation into this. I wonder why it's protected, why it's not an administrative investigation, is someone trying to protect it? Friends, you answer from here.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0299par0235	Don't let him be a parishioner.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0297par0236	About 38 people were detained six days ago in Midyat, and nine others were arrested. In the search of the arrested friends' homes, the so-called Gülenist movement has been found, action, I don't know, Leaky, Zaman newspaper, although many of you have burned these magazines, I'm sure they're still on the corner of your house. Now, people used to be holstered, but right now, unfortunately, after this blow, the holsters are being fabricated. I mean, what is it, sir? In order to decipher the connection between the DBP and the HDP, sir, both the books of the Kurdish movement have been found and found belonging to it, so they are cooperating. It wouldn't be so unfair, it wouldn't be abuse. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, I'm glad the coup didn't happen. If it had happened, most of us here now, what if we were all in prison, what if we were either in jail, what if we were missing, what if we were in jail, what if we were missing, what if we weren't on the run, what if we weren't at the Clave, if we realized the real danger, and we were doing good. Here, God has given us the opportunity to fulfill those things. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's all take a step together for social peace and especially for the peaceful resolution of the Kurdish issue. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0300par0244	Mr. Aslan, thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes. ll. - Exposure
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0301par0248	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0300par0249	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Danış Beştaş, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Sancar, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Aydoğdu, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Toğul, Mr. Akdoğan, Mr. Zaydan, Mr. Yıldırım. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the 5th article of the Law Bill 411 shall be replaced in the form of the following. Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0302par0263	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0300par0264	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0303par0265	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0300par0266	Mr. Deniz Depboylu, Aydın MP.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0304par0268	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak on behalf of my National Party of Action Group on our motion on Article 5. I salute the Holy Turkish nation and our Veteran Assembly. Precious lawmakers may be seen as an appropriate incentive for new businesses to be exempted from income taxes for five years -- according to the 20th Amendment to the income tax of special day care centres and day care centres -- under the 20th Amendment of the National Ministry of Education, as well as the same rights as private schools and organisations, but it is a concern for us to pass on the state's duties and responsibilities through privatisation and to transfer education into private space. Precious lawmakers have been designated as 17.18% in 2002 from the National Ministry of Education budget to education investments, while 8.23 per cent in 2016. This only means that the intensive commercialization process in education will continue to increase, and the education spending of parents from their pockets in 2016 will inevitably increase. Turkey, unfortunately, has handed over a source far below the average of OECD countries to the Ministry of National Education. That means we're the 2nd from the end. Support policy for private schools harms public education. For years, public schools have been left alone with their problems, while their policy on promoting private schools has been implemented at every opportunity. We wonder if the government wants to encourage private education under the name "supporting private schools" and direct students and guardians to private schools through financial support. We also wonder if the fact that private schools have been supported directly by public resources for years is behind speeding up the process of commercialisation in education. What needs to be done is to evaluate public resources for education, which is also a public right, not for private interests, but for social interests, and not just for education, but for increased public spending in all areas. Because the most important duty of the state is to open institutions where our children will be trained and raised best, protect them from any abuse. Unfortunately, the institutions that should be opened or protected are either shut down or neglected by the government, which governs the state. The fact that our children, who were forced to carry them because of the village schools that were closed down -- have been closed down again -- is the main cause of the problems that we've been experiencing here in our exposed children who need them in unregistered homes and homes. Look, the point where children who have been raised in unregistered homes and dorms so far have grown up today is that the point where they bring up our country is clearly before our very eyes. We're not crooked, let's sit straight, let's talk straight. First of all, the children you've dropped off at the homes of the Foundations and Associations must be taken back into state protection. Because in these places, children live openly for all kinds of abuse. We have seen together how they have brought up children who have been abused religiously, who are in the homes of this congregation, who are the wisest in the homes of the Fethullah Congregation, but do not have the means to read. This problem is still going on. The government must learn from its problems, take every precaution to protect our children and our young ones. Like I said, let's sit straight, and let's talk straight at the same time. Unfortunately, our highly valued friends, you have the potential to be deceived and deceived, and as the National Party of Action, please consider our proposals. We wanted to guide you in many ways, in both national education and foreign policy, but you ignored them. History is a repeater. Please don't let it be true this time. Take control of where our children can be abused and nationalize national education, make it a state policy. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0305par0277	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes... ll. - Exposure
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0306par0281	Request roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0305par0282	We've got a roll call. Mr. Çam, Mr. Kara, Mr. Atıcı, Mr. Adıyük, Mr. Karbıyuk, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Bektaşoglu, Mr. Kayşoğlu, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Yör Özdemir, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Göker, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Elector, Mr. Özdak, Mr. Öz, Mr. Öz, Mr. Öz, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Bekoğlu, Mr. Bekoğlu. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Members of parliament, there is a request for an open vote in the form of an open vote on Article 5 of the bill. Now, we're going to identify the names of the clients, the MPs. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 411th Amendment to the establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund, which is currently in session, shall be held in the form of an open vote of Article 5 of the Law. Mr. Göker? Here. Mr. Adil? Here. Mr. Zeybek? Here. Mr. Horseman? Here. Mr. Berberoglu? Here. Mr. Bachelor? Here. Mr. Tamayligil? Here. Mr. Responsor? Here. Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu? Here. Mr. Özdemir? Here. Mr. Pine? Here. Mr. Turkmen? Here. Mr. Karbük? Here. Mr. Kara? Here. Mr. Özdish? Here. Mr. Kusoglu? Here. Mr. lion? Here. Mr. Oz? Here. Mr. Irgil? Here. Mr. Iron? Here. Mr. Dogan? Here. Mr. Tanal? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. An open vote will be carried out by electronic device, according to the decision taken. In accordance with the adopted motion, the vote of Article 5 will be carried out by electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on Article 5 of the Law Bill 411: ▪ Number of votes used : 222 [[X]] Alif Doğan Türkmen Fehmi Cubic Thus, according to the motion adopted, Article 5 of the bill was adopted. There are three motions in Article 6 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "bendine" in Article 6 of Law Bill 411, which is being discussed, bendine, bendine, benzene, benzene, benzene, ben. Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Erkan Haberal Kadir Koçdemir İsmail Faruk Aksu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "property-promoting" declaration of Law Bill 411 shall be changed into "provided" in Article 6 of Article 6 of the Common Law. Çağlar Demirel Besime Konca Saadet Capable Abdullah Zeydan Ferhat Encu Nihat Akdoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of the 411 Entity Fund and the Amendment of some Laws and Laws Acts under the Law and the amendment of the Law Against the Law on the Sales of Agriculture Lands of the Treasury (2/571) to the development of Forest Villagers No. 19/04/2012 and 692 and to support the Development of Forest Villagers in the Treasure Name of Forest Borders, and to change the Law Against the Law on the Sales of Lands of Agriculture (2/571). Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamayligil Utku Cakırözer Zechariah Haziel Selin Sayek Böke Musa Pine ADADDE Article 6-193 of Article 1 of Article 74 (6) is the "private value" (which can be considered as a cost if these expenditures exceed the amount set in a calendar year by the landlord and increase the economic value of the property). It's been added. Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0307par0355	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0305par0356	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0308par0357	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0305par0358	İstanbul MP Bihlun Tamaylıgil will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tamayligil.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0309par0361	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, now, we're all looking at what we're doing, what it's going to do, what it's going to do, what it's going to do. Sometimes we find that the vote is even confused with whether it is rejected or accepted, and that even the beloved President's warning is needed. Now, what does this substance say? Those who have private capital, or people who rent their homes, if there's an investment in heat in insulation -- you know, there's an insulation pen, take it away or go -- you can actually reduce this heat insulation as a real expense. In fact, when you look at it, it's an important title that our country needs in terms of energy efficiency and energy savings. So heat insulation, really, like Turkey, came to the point where we paid $60 billion abroad for energy in 2012. When the commodity prices went down, the figure went down between 35 and 40 billion dollars. But because we're an energy-addicted country and because of our obligations to this energy dependency, we have to maintain, carry, live with that obligation. Our expenses will continue at a high rate of fossil fuels all the way to the 2050s. Because, when you look at it, even in the investments of energy production, 4/5 of it is about fossil fuels. And when we look at it as a user, since we're not creating an alternative resource, we're going to save money in our use so that we can go back to the amount we're paying for energy. Good, that's good. But when I think of it as being done so innocently, it's not so innocently. Now, I don't know, do you all know? Do you have an I.D. card for the energy efficiency of your homes? This, again, is an obligation to buy an energy identity document for new buildings starting in 2011, in terms of new buildings in your power, which are actually being built. This identity document is an identity that all buildings are supposed to have over 50 square meters of construction, and here, the building has a lot of numbered subtitles, such as the minimum building needs energy, energy consumption classification, insulation properties, heating-cooling systems. This goes from A to G, from the best to the lowest. It is considered normal, and it is an identity document that should be in all new constructions starting in 2011. Well, the buildings that were built in the past, which was built before 2011, have to have this identity certificate until May 2, 2017. If you don't have this identity certificate, there are challenges, barriers to subletting real estate. Let him go, and there will be a gradual change in the taxes you will pay according to the class of the identity certificate you have. So I'm guessing again, there's another bag of laws, and that'll change. But the obligation brought in here is at least a way to prepare for the building's identity certificate. So it's not just an opportunity for me to give the renter an opportunity, because then, if, after May 2, 2017, it's also an application for severe punishments. We need to think that this arrangement is also positive for Turkey's energy savings if the transition is done very well in the middle and long term, but if there's a right here to rent out its home, we're stressing that there are exceptions for the owner who doesn't rent out its home but also for other taxes that will come up in the next May. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0310par0367	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0311par0371	We have a roll call, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0310par0372	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Danış Beştaş, Mr. Konca, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Akdoğan, Mr. Toğul, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Zaydan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Geveri, Mr. Geveri, Mr. Yıldırım. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Congressmans, we have begun to process from the most contrary motion, and this motion we have discussed is the most contrary to the Constitution, and since the amendment has been accepted, the matter has been redesigned and the next two motions have been removed from the process. I now submit the 6th article to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0312par0383	We have an open vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0310par0384	We're taking a vote.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0312par0385	But we have an open vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0310par0386	But why are you late now? Give it to me later. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0312par0388	Mr. President, we have an open vote.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0310par0389	But you're telling me there's a process.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0312par0390	I'm saying it as I go to the vote.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0310par0391	You were supposed to bring it earlier. There are three motions in Article 7 that I make read: The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0313par0394	Mr. President, let me just... let me talk to you before I get read.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0314par0395	The other stuff, the other stuff.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0313par0396	No, no, I have no objection to that. Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0315par0398	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0313par0399	One, the application here is your appreciation. Of course, as soon as we file the motion for an open vote, we need to see that those friends are here, but I appreciate that, and I respect that. But we made a mistake during the vote on the last item, and for that reason, he mistook the transcripts. In the previous article, an open vote was required by our group in accordance with the relevant clause of the Civil Code. After the open vote had been demanded, your 15 MPs who had asked for an open vote -- at least 15 of them -- in accordance with the requirements for an open vote -- had been accepted by the General Assembly's opinion because we didn't do it with the cup, we did it electronically, comparing it to the electronic system of at least 15 lawmakers demanding an open vote, but if not using it, then it would have been accepted as a result of the business vote. You turned around without making that inquiry, and according to my investigation, I would like to suggest that at least 15 of the 20 friends who have demanded an open vote in the previous article would vote for the cup or that we would be able to take a break from the session and proceed after the necessary investigation has been carried out.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0316par0402	Thank you, Mr. Special. And thank you for your sensitivity in this matter, but since the meeting was enough, we've had to announce the outcome of the open vote as a sufficient number of decisions. Besides, it was delivered to you by the clerk, and as far as I know, there's a feeling that you didn't do what you needed to do on the Court, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0313par0403	Sir, during the vote...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0316par0404	The vote wasn't over.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0313par0405	During the vote, I said, sir, I didn't say after. During the vote, we were asked whether or not to vote for our group, and I said, "If we do, it'll be open voting, or if we don't use it, it'll go into the form of a vote."
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0316par0407	No, that's just for those who are demanding, yes.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0313par0408	Yeah. And since 15 of the 20 people who filed those motions didn't vote, and clearly as the Presidential Court, you didn't have to make the inquiry, and you didn't feel the need to make the identification, you called an open vote.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0316par0409	Mr. Special, I understand your request, but we didn't feel the need to make such a statement again, as a Court, as a result of the vote, both the number of meetings and the number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0313par0410	But, Mr. President, if you could just reduce the difference between an open vote and an open vote to the number of meetings and decisions...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0316par0411	All right, we'll be careful from now on, we'll check it out. Okay, we'll check it out, Mr. Special. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0313par0413	I'm sorry, Mr. President. Look, Mr. President, it's like this: if the meeting is enough to make a decision, the only difference between an open vote and an open vote is that I have nothing to say, but there's a very serious difference. It's about knowing who voted for what in the open vote, so 30 years from now...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0316par0414	So, what's your request, Mr. Special?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0313par0415	My motion is to determine whether the MPs who signed the motion during the previous vote of Article 5 were voting in the system by the Presidential Court; this is a very simple, three-minute process. We've just saved three minutes of processing, we've got time, we've got time, we'll transfer it there, there won't be a delay. Let's compare, after this comparison, you can only say this.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0316par0416	Okay, well, we'll make that comparison and make the necessary statement. Now let's get on with that process, let's let the guys do that comparison.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0313par0418	Who's going to do the comparison, sir? The Civil Code says it's by members of the Clerk.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0316par0419	Okay, that's what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0313par0420	We don't have a clerk on the bench.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0317par0421	Yes, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0316par0422	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0313par0423	Mr. President, what's right here is that we take a three-minute, five-minute break from the hearing...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0316par0424	Okay, well, let's take a break, take five.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0313par0425	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit07spe0316par0426	I'm taking a five-minute recess.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0316par0001	I now open the Eighth Session of the 126th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 411. Commission? Here. Government? Here. There are three motions on the 7th article of the bill: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement in Article 7 of the Common Law Bill 411 be changed into "the person who entered the door of the declaration." Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Erkan Haberal Kadir Koçdemir Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 411 rows of the Law be changed to the "result of the declaration" in Article 7 of Article 7 of the Charter. Çağlar Demirel Abdullah Zeydan Nihat Akdoğan Besime Konca Ferhat Encu Saadet Capable Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the Law Charter for the Establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund, 411 rankings, and the Amendment of the Law on the Sales of Law and Laws of Agriculture Lands Belonged to the Treasury, as well as the development of Forest Villagers No. 19/04/2012 and 692, and the provision of the 7th Amendment to the Law on the Sales of Laws of Agriculture Lands of the Treasury (2/571). With all due respect. Musa Pine Ancient Don't Stop Bihlun Tamayligil Zechariah Haziel Selin Sayek Böke Utku Çakırözer The following bell has been added to the (1)th joke of Article 94 of Article 7-193 of the Law. (18). Payments under the seventh joke of Article 11 of the Tax Code of Usul Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0318par0030	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0316par0031	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0319par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0316par0033	Ankara MP Blunt Kuşoglu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0320par0036	Mr. President, my dear friends, I give you all my compliments. I have taken a pledge on the 7th article of the Law Bill, 411 rows. The 7th article, the income tax 94, is a very well-known, comprehensive substance, which makes an additional arrangement, a technical arrangement, a technical arrangement that we participate in. My dear friends, as I just said, it's actually an arrangement that we're participating in, but I'd like to bring some things to your attention on this occasion. There's been a problem with the economy, especially lately. When I say we see it, it's a problem the government especially sees. We all need to be sensitive about this, especially when it comes to the difficulties we may face in finance, the continuation of this transplanted coup attempt can be carried out in this way. We all have to be sensitive about this, but the government has been trying to make changes in the law lately, but these changes don't happen with the law. There is no way to postpone or eliminate the crisis by changing the law. Now, in the last month -- if I remember correctly -- we've arranged two bags, brought in two bags of law. We brought in the individual pension law, we brought in a bill for black money, and we're bringing in the Turkish Entity Fund, which we passed through the Plan and Budget Commission tomorrow night and named this bag after it. I mean, the government does things in a hurry, but unfortunately, it doesn't do what it's supposed to do. Public institutions should actually do this work together, a coordinated study needs to be done, and that's how government plans should come here. There's no such thing. You make arrangements in haste, such as for example, about black money, and MASAAK has no opinion. MASAAK's written opinion was not received. There's an arrangement in this bag for the Central Bank's reescontructions, which has not been asked, nor has its opinion been taken. Mrs. Bihlun just spoke about the 6th article, about the buildings, about the energy savings issue. Buildings need to be ID'd there. There are flaws in that, we just realized because we haven't had time to work on it either. Now we realize it. It's supposed to be fixed, actually. It's gone. I told you in Article 2 about the DSI, some of the arrangements we didn't notice during the commission, but we noticed here. The 2nd article should not have passed. It's rushed in like this, and there's a lot of mistakes going on. But it's a team effort. The government must bring all this by meeting with its occupational institutions with its own public institutions. When you say teamwork, I'll tell you a story, no one's listening again, if you don't mind.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0321par0040	We're listening.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0322par0041	I'm listening, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0320par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't doubt it, but I thought I'd tell a story for my friends to listen to.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0322par0044	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0323par0045	We're listening. You're welcome.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0324par0046	No one listens. You say, you do us wrong.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0325par0047	Mr. Kusoglu, we're trying to accept your motion, and this vice president of yours says, "Don't accept it."
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0326par0048	He's trying not to admit it, but what he meant was different, Mr. President. Now, some old man went to the park, sat around, watching, resting on one side. Two come in, one digs a hole, the other closes it up, one digs a hole, the other closes it up after a while. They've dug five or ten holes like this, and they've shut it down. Someone's opening it, someone's closing it. And I don't understand, I'm sorry, I've been watching you for an hour now, and one of you is digging a hole, and one of you is closing a hole, and what's the deal with that? What's the point? The city workers said: "We are a team, sir. We're actually a three-man team, but I'm the one who dug a hole, and the third one's the tree-thorner, and that's today's trail. That's why I'm digging, and he's closing, and since there's no thorn in the tree that's on his trail, he's not there. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0327par0052	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement in the 7th article of Law Bill 411 shall be changed in the form of. Çağlar Demirel (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0328par0059	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0327par0060	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0329par0061	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0327par0062	Mr. Kadir Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0330par0065	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. We're going through the days when Hakkari and Şırnak provinces are wanted to be districts. We'll say what needs to be said in the next day and session. As we look at history, we see that there have been economic, social, political, cultural and so on problems between the Kurds and the Arab, Fars, and the Turkish states that govern them in various processes. Instead of finding permanent and humanitarian solutions to these problems of Kurds, the countries have adopted security policies and changed the status of the settlements, making these problems even more erratic, and continuing to bring them back to life. The first example of this is that, in the Abbasis era, a Kurdish village in the days of Khalifa Mehdi, the province of Siser. Mesudi and Belazuri, who were historians of the Abbasis, speak for themselves in their works. So I'm going to do exactly the same thing from the "Fütuh/ül" by Belazuri: the word "Siser" is made up of the words "also" by "also," meaning "also," and "also" by "also" by "also." ==History==Siser, Hamazan, Dinever, and Azerbaijan were originally located within the borders of the village. It is also referred to as 100 fountains, or 100 fountains, since there are 100 fountains in its location. The Kurds used it as a pasture for their animals. They also took refuge in these hills after various conflicts with Abbasi. Seeing that small military operations were failing to take over the Kurds there, the Abbasi Caliph Mahdi sent a large army against them and ordered the strategic importance to become the province of Siser. At the same time, both the district of Mayenherc and the district of Cezveme of Azerbaijan are connected to the districts of Berze, Restaf and Hababencer. In this way, a province was appointed as a separate province with the district and its settlements, and the tribute of this town was given to him. The Kurds, who had been silent for some time after the province was built, and some other elements that shared the same environment with them, rebelled against the politics of the Caliph Reshid, and when the rebellion was suppressed, Siser was burned, destroyed. Yes, unfortunately for the Kurds, history repeats itself. However, it does not repeat with good examples, but unfortunately, it repeats with bad examples. We should not forget that applying bad examples has always had bad consequences, and in order to avoid bad consequences, I think, and we think that we will continue to see some of the more historical, exemplary aspects of this practice, which was put into effect under this security project, and that the Abbasi era could quickly end, and that if the damage is returned from the wrong side, I salute you all with respect, and as I said, we will continue to see it together a little bit more historically, exemplaryly. I salute the House, the Court, and all of you. I wish you all would give it up...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0331par0072	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. [[A group of HDP MPs stood up]] I will submit the motion to your votes. We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Başaran, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Konca, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Botan, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Akdoğan. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We'll resume the talks of Bill 411. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement in Article 7 of the Common Law Bill 411 be changed into "the person who entered the door of the declaration." Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0332par0092	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0331par0093	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0333par0094	We agree.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0331par0095	Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0334par0098	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the motion on Article 7 of the Law Bill 411. I salute the grand jury. On August 17, 1999, I pray to God for the mercy of our citizens, who died of an earthquake called the disaster of the century, which occurred 17 years ago and the size of the century, that no such disaster should ever happen again. Dear lawmakers, according to official figures, this earthquake, with 17,500 dead, 23-24 thousand wounded, has caused our country a major disaster as a result, causing great suffering. As a result of this disaster, however, all of our people from the north, south, east, western, were able to provide material and spiritual assistance to the earthquake zone to deal with suffering and impossibleness, trying to reach their brothers in that region with every possible way to heal the wounds. He tried to heal the wounds by adding the night of the 57th government, which was on duty at the time to the day, and before winter came, he ran to the rescue of our victims, and did so by making unprecedented achievements in the world. In a short period of two months at that time, the MHP handed over prefabricated homes, permanent dwellings, such as 18 months, to its owners and employees. Dear lawmakers, such natural disasters may be difficult to predict, but measures against disasters must be taken without disasters. If zoning and construction legislation are reorganised according to the needs of the age, measures are taken to teach the fight against earthquakes consciously, ground ethics are done as a science when housing areas are selected, and measures are taken according to them, it will be possible to avoid these disasters, even if such disasters are faced again, with little sadness, pain, and harm. May the great Lord give the mighty Turkish nation no more pain to forget these sufferings. Precious lawmakers, July 15th, have been seen as an action against the unity and unity of the Turkish nation, against our 1,000-year brotherhood, against Turkish democracy, and that the Turkish name of Sevr, together with those eager for Turkish geography, means the destruction of the Turkish state. During this period, the Hatay, our own constituency, had 200 soldiers removed from border troops, 7-8 armored vehicles were removed from that border area and activated to be sent to another region. For a week, the border area was completely empty, and Hatayli began to think, "What is such a situation done for?" The closeness of the war in Syria, the concentration of the region of Aleppo and Idlip, suggests entry from Syria to Hatay. So this must be considered to be an act of civil war against Turkish nationals on July 15th. Yes, July 15th is a treacherous coup attempt on the Turkish nation to the Turkish state. It can be expressed as an epic act, which says, "First, my country. First, it's an epic act that has been overcome by the unrequited love of this country, without doubt of its commitment to the Turkish nation, by every part of our nation, and by every human being, by the sense of ownership of its flag, its democracy. Thirty-two days have passed since the separatist terrorist attempts of traitors. In 32 days, many officers have been dismissed, explained, arrested. I speak to AKP officials from here: Justice, rule of law, a public defender, a public official, a university student, a businessman, a tradesman, a public official, and if he is guilty, he should be punished by saying that his eyes should not be taken care of, that the last regret would be of no avail. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But I want you all to know that you've been running this country for 14 years, that if there's a crime, there are those who turn a blind eye to those who aid and abet, our beloved nation knows, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0335par0110	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. I will submit the motion to your votes... ll. - Exposure
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0336par0114	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0335par0115	We've got a roll call. Mr. Çam, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Yımım, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Kayşoglu, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Carabeyik, Mr. Balslan, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Berberoğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Göker, Mr. Bekkinoğlu, Mr. All, Mr. All, Mr. Demir. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. I will submit the clause to your votes in accordance with the motion adopted. There's a request for an open vote on the 7th article of the bill, so I'll have them read it and identify the names of the lawmakers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 411th draft vote of the 7th Amendment shall be held in the form of a clear vote on the establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund, which is currently in session, as well as on the amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures. Mehmet Göker? Here. Honorary Name? Here. Mahmoud Tanal? Here. Cadri Enis Berberoglu? Here. Bihlun Tamayligil? Here. Ibrahim Özdish? Here. Gulay Backup? Here. Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu? Here. Sibel Özdemir? Here. Tulips? Here. Kazim Arslan? Here. Niyazi Nefi Kara? Here. Bulent Kuşoglu?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0337par0141	I can handle it. Musa Pine? Here. Bulent Oz? Here. Ceyhun Irgil? Here. Nurettin Demir? Here. Selina Doğan? Here. The Moonslayer? Here. Kemal Zeybek? Here. Alif Doğan Türkmen? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, the decision will be carried out by an open voting electronic device according to the decision taken. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0338par0155	Article 7 of the Law Bill 411 is the result of an open vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 217 [[x]] Alif Doğan Türkmen Fehmi Cubic Thus the 7th article was accepted according to the motion adopted. There are three motions in Article 8 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement in Article 8 of Law Bill 411, which is being discussed, shall be changed into the form of the letter "Preparation" in Article 8 of Article 8 of the Charter. Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of the terms of the declaration of the 411 rows in Article 8 of Article 8 of the Bill of Law. Çağlar Demirel Abdullah Zeydan Nihat Akdoğan Besime Konca Ferhat Encu Saadet Capable Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund No. 411, and the amendment of the Law of Some Laws and Laws, and the amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, in the following way of the Development of Forest Villages No. 19,2012, and the Development of Forest Villages No. 6292, and the Appreciation of Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of Treasures, and the Law on the sale of Agriculture Lands of Treasury (2/571). With all due respect. Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Lale Karabık Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamayligil Utku Cakırözer Zechariah Haziel Selin Sayek Böke The 5th article of Article 67 of the Act No. 8-193 included the statement "So much so," which came after the declaration of Article 5520, under the First Amendment (I) of Article 4 of Article 5520. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0339par0190	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0338par0191	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0340par0192	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0338par0193	Mr. Tulip will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0341par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding Article 8 of the Law Bill 411. I salute the Veteran Assembly. Congressmans, there's a tax arrangement in Article 8 and we're not against it, we already agree. However, I would like to draw your attention to another point, another number of tax-related issues, outside of Article 8. The need to reform the tax laws in Turkey is at stake now. Notice that the citizen's personal tax loads increase daily. Again, it's getting harder to collect taxes every day, and we're seeing reductions in the amount of corporate tax. Let's look at the numbers together: the income tax is 99 billion, but about 5 billion of it is taxable. The corporate tax is only about $36 billion, even if they're all subject to a statement. So the valued representatives have $460 billion in tax revenues, but the part that is subject to the statement corresponds to about 10 per cent. Look, it's not a healthy structure. Well, 10 per cent is a statement. What are the others? S.E.T.V., VAT, import tax, blockage. It's not a healthy structure, it's the Regents. You can never see anything like this in any country. Therefore, I would like to address from here once again the need for tax reform, which will quickly bring the economy to the right track. We already know that most of the tax revenues are being used to finance foreign resource costs. Congressmans, the other thing is, we're really drowning with the bag of laws. Let's not get this wrong, we're never the people who escape the intensity of work, we love to work, but these laws come so hard that they come with so many flaws and mistakes that it's never really possible for us to accept them and digest them. Listening to us and paying attention to our criticism is both beneficial to our country and important to its international perspective, and these are our real criticisms, our real reservations, which will prevent Turkey's risk premiums from increasing. Please, we'd like you to consider what we say about this and our reservations. Congressmans, the word "trust" is crucial to Turkey's economy right now. Now, that trust can only be made by sound laws. The impressions are supposed to be that way. Currently, the international environment is following the State of Emergency process, and it's also trying to determine how badly the State of Emergency process has been abused. In the decisions of every bag of laws taken, opposition's martyrdom is crucial to international environments. We're aware of that, and you're aware of that. You don't really need our vote, you raise your hand and you pass it, but how good it'll go, that's where you have to put it. We love our country, and therefore feel the need to express the points where we find ourselves wrong, where there are reservations. We've been through the same thing in entity peace, we've been through 74-point bag laws where the same thing was brought back. On the one hand, foreign capital comes from the outside, no matter where it comes from, we show ourselves tight with money, and on the other hand, we say we're fine, but we do the opposite. Congressmans, in the latest bill, there were so many unrealistic things that, believe me, there were so many negativitys in this asset fund that it was not subject to the rule of law and law. He's employed, but he's not subject to the Officer's Law, he's going to tender, but he's not subject to the Law of Contract, he's going to release bonds, he's going to repo and he's going to reverse repo, but he's not subject to the SPK. Believe me, we've fought so hard that we've spent days on how not to be subject and how not to be audited. We call ourselves the strong country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's another point, and then we say, "We are turning Hakkari and Şırnak into boroughs for security reasons." It's really not possible to understand that. I tried to tell you as long as I could. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0342par0213	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. I submit the motion to your votes... ll. - Exposure
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0343par0217	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0342par0218	We've got a roll call. Mr. Çam, Mr. Karbiyek, Mr. Bekbüglu, Mr. Şündağ, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Kayışoğlu, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Kara, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Yıldız, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Göker, Mr. Tanal, Mr. All, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Gürer. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of the terms of the declaration of the 411 rows in Article 8 of Article 8 of the Bill of Law. Çağlar Demirel (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0344par0232	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0342par0233	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0345par0234	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0342par0235	Mr Ahmet Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0346par0238	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion demanding a change in Article 8 of Law Bill 411. There is a technical change in institutions under Article 8 of Article 5520 and Article 4 of the Tax Act (1) (b). But rather than this technical change, I'd like to talk to you about the different laws of this bag of legislation in particular. Here, some of the articles of the bag law are seen by our side as part of the changes that were made after July 15th, which clamped down on society, which poisoned democratic life, so to speak. In the end, let's say that even though the rule of law has been tried to enter into a society in particular, we must not forget that the effects of these will be inflicted on society for many, many years. In this period, when national will is mentioned the most about democratic will, local governments, which make up the most remote cells of democratic will, are being hit by trustee freaks and public will, and a junta logic is being created on local governments. In particular, the status of the settlements is tried to be replaced by rematching feelings, hatred, and hatred. In the history of the Republic, different settlements have jumped to one higher status, but a freak, especially from province status to county status, is the first time in the ruling period. Dear lawmakers, again, we face unique pressures on the media-release world. The press-released media institutions, especially in the opposition line, are wanted to be closed with their inhibition policies, fear and delusions. When pressure failed to take over the opposition media in particular, when it failed to draw them to the line of government's crooked policies, the Özgür Gündem newspaper was shut down yesterday with a law freak. But it gets mixed up. Özgür Gündem daily is confused with the power-feeding community media. The Özgür Gündem daily does not feed on conglomerates, such as the community media, which is embezzled by feeding power. The newspaper Özgür Gündem does not have the power of money and the power of the state behind it. Özgür Gündem newspaper is a newspaper that strives to survive with the help of its readers, with the sweat of its own people. However, we find it understandable that this newspaper, which is not contained, is closed by fear, is feared by political power. Because, despite all the pressure, this newspaper has written the facts under the most difficult conditions, and it has come to this day, and after that, I think it will continue its legacy. Another issue is closed today by a vote of one vote against 8 (P.S.A.) on the Radio Television Supreme Board of Radio Television, which has nine members, particularly many opposing satellite broadcasters, and the license to run a satellite platform has been revoked. When we look at satellite channels, especially satellite transmissions, we should remember that most of them are on the opposition press line. In particular, everything serves to divide society, to promote the feelings of camping, hatred, and hatred, to weaken Kurdish sense of belonging and ownership to this country. And let no one doubt that tomorrow, the Özgür Gündem will be much stronger than tomorrow, whose back will not be pressed against large conglomerates, political power, the ill-favoured gains from the state. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0347par0246	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The motion is to vote... ll. - Exposure
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0348par0250	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0347par0251	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Danış Beştaş, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Başaran, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Tuğul, Mr. Botan, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Özturk. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement in Article 8 of Law Bill 411, which is being discussed, shall be changed into the form of the letter "Preparation" in Article 8 of Article 8 of the Charter. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0349par0265	We agree with the pure majority of our members.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0347par0266	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0350par0267	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit08spe0347par0268	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger, and I'm calling a meeting of the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0347par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 126th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Commission? Here. Government? Here. We stayed in the process of the amendment motion on Article 8 of the bill. The Commission reported it had joined, and the government reported it had joined. We cannot speak according to Article 87 of the Civil Code, and I will submit it directly to your votes. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, there is a request for an open vote in the form of an open vote on Article 8 of the bill. Now, I'm going to identify the names of the lawmakers who are in demand. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the opening vote of Article 8 of the Court of Law on the amendments to certain Laws and Laws in accordance with the 411 Entity Fund of Turkey, which is currently in session. Mr. Göker? Here. Mr. Adil? Here. Mr. Zeybek? Here. Mr. Tanal? Here. Mr. Berberoglu? Here. Mr. Tamayligil? Here. Mr. Özdish? Here. Mr. Responsor? Here. Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu? Here. Mr. Özdemir? Here. Mr. Dogan? Here. Mr. Turkmen? Here. Mr. Karbük? Here. Mr. Kara?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0351par0025	I can handle it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0347par0026	Okay, here it is. Mr. lion? Here. Mr. Kusoglu?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0352par0029	I can handle it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0347par0030	They can handle it, all right. Mr. Oz? Here. Mr. Irgil?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0353par0033	I can handle it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0347par0034	Okay. Mr. Iron? Here. Mr. Horseman? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the adopted motion, the vote for Article 8 will be carried out by electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the clear vote on Article 8 of the Law Bill 411: ▪ Number of votes used : 221 [[X]] Alif Doğan Türkmen Fehmi Cubic Thus, the 8th article was adopted according to the motion adopted. In Article 9 there are three motions. Now, I'm going to run all three motions in the same context, so I'm going to do it together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the Law Bill 411 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel Abdullah Zeydan Nihat Akdoğan Besime Konca Ferhat Encu Saadet Capable The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Kadir Koçdemir Desire Erdem Erkan Haberal The signatures of the other motion are: Free Special Musa Pine Akın Ustüdağ Bihlun Tamaylıgil Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0354par0070	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0347par0071	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0355par0072	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0347par0073	Mr. Arzu Erdem, the Istanbul MP, will first speak on the same motions. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0356par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, today is the 17th year of the August 17, 1999 Marmara earthquake, which caused massive loss of life and property. For those who lost their lives in the earthquake, I ask God's mercy and patience for their families, and I share their pain with my heart. And as I say that the last seventeen years have not made us forget our suffering, I also pray that the Lord of God would never again make our nation suffer like this. I hereby declare that our victims of the great earthquake, who have not yet been given their rights, are on top of us. We will continue to work and fight as hard as we can to give the victims their rights, and I urge the government to be discreet in this matter. Hopefully, the righteous cries of the earthquake victims will be able to touch your conscience. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party group on Article 9 of the Law Bill, on the establishment of the Turkish Entity Fund, and on behalf of the 9th Amendment to certain Laws and Laws. I salute the Veterans' House. Of course, our goal should be to enforce and enforce the laws that will be discussed in the face of the nation's expectations and demands. However, in doing so, we need to have self - sacrificing and effective work discipline. This method, which includes many different issues and has been used several times in 14 years by the ruling party, has led to carelessness and lack of legislation. It is also an indication that there is no meticulous study of the clauses of the regulation, which is completely independent and concerns many in the community, and that other commissions are not discussed in the relevant commissions that enter into the field of duty and expertise. This is a violation of the Civil Code provisions, which would result in the lack and error of the regulations and the immediate change of the law. This actually causes more time wasted, and depending on that, it disrupts our nation's expectations of us. Instead of being randomly, hastily involved with our nation, these arrangements will prevent serious problems with more detailed and technical examinations, and will eliminate the obligation to redesign. However, many articles of interest have been compressed against the laws of the Constitution, which were often applied during the AKP period. This compression causes a lot of distractions or abductions, and that makes a lot of sense. I'd like to ask, are we really trying to enforce and enforce the laws of our nation's best interests as quickly as possible, or are we trying to create a bill that's out of the interest of the nation, rather than in the interest of the nation, some people and groups? Dear lawmakers, our nation is in a state of economic straits due to other negatives, especially to the ongoing terrorist incidents. Especially in recent years, we have heard of a model of paying off debt by debt, falling into the sea for debtors and desperate ones and hugging the serpent. If his trade record has remained clean, the number of people who have exchanged his debt by taking a loan from the bank is increasing day by day. We've heard about a section of the law that we've been working on, and they've applied to us with this victim. Here's the thing: banks have been handing out credit cards in the past tense, like promotions, and you'll all remember, and everyone has three or five credit cards in their pockets, including our small-income incomes. I think the Treasury Department knows about this, but I'd like to repeat: the debt, the credit card in his pocket, pays off with another card, borrows money, unfortunately goes to shell companies and takes credit cards. These shell companies, because of the loopholes in the law, are loan sharks of the age, which is technological loan sharking. The same method is also used by a small trade dealer. These shell companies are not known for what they do or what they buy or sell, but they are particularly busy, such as my well, which has no VAT. I'd like to jog your memory a little bit more of this. The borrower goes to a non-existent company, collects non-existent goods on a credit card, pays off a loan shark, and then pays him off like that. Now, what we need to do is take deterrent measures to prevent that from happening in our next work. As we take these measures, it is also good study of the side that does the work, identifying these companies, as well as eliminating the victimization of our nation that falls into this situation. Thank you very much, my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0357par0088	Thank you, Your Grace. Since it's the same thing, we'll move on to the other speaker. The other speaker is Hakkari MP Nihat Akdoğan. Here you go, Mr. Akdoğan.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0358par0093	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are actually bringing in a bag of legislation, including the process from burial procedures to the removal of the provinces. We have joined the Commission in the process of putting this bill into the province of Hakkari, where we belong. When you see the work on the commission, how much of the use of both language has been really removed from the province of Haqaziri, where the province of Şırnak has now been lifted. How can you, in a moment, take a province that has been in place, especially in the hundred and sixty-nine years, directly from there, without sharing it with the people there? How can you change the status of a city that has a seven thousand-year history? We're really having trouble understanding the concept here. In this regard, in particular, representatives of the NGO from Hakkari, who were trying to visit the Assembly yesterday, were sent back from the door of Dikmen. Those people sent you here, they sent us here. I strongly condemn the return of the people there, as we have opposed the coup here. Those people have representatives. Dear friends, the President is always talking about the will of the people, are you asking for justice? Let's go to the public. Well, here's where the name of a county will be changed, you're taking a province to county status. I kept asking the Minister of Labor and Social Security and the other Minister, who did you meet here in the local area? Look, there are people from the 1990s who settled in Hakkari. To the people who left their village and came and held on to a new life, you, sir, we saw fit, that's our criteria, we don't see you as a province. Your life, your honor, your honor... you are not worthy to live in a city. Now, I ask you, Mr. President, would Mr. President accept this if you were to make the borough of Rize? Will he agree? All of a sudden, suppose the Republican People's Party is in power, and if they come here to save this kind of money, would you accept it?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0359par0097	Guys, this doesn't just happen.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0358par0098	It's called a geographical location. Now it's one of the most uninvestigated places. We're talking about a county that's trying to make its living, just through the officers there. All of a sudden, you're talking about a geographical position. We know exactly what this is about.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0359par0099	Terror!
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0358par0100	Don't beat around the bush, you'll come here, you'll talk about it.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0360par0101	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0358par0102	You say geographical position, you say population. In many places, we say, since there is such a decision, send it to the relevant commission, send it to the Interior Commission. In the Plan and Budget Commission, the Minister of Labour or Sports will come and tell us what. We're persistently saying it. Indeed, you have destroyed, destroyed, that coupting general is now inside, but you are there... we all demand Highova, we've been saying for a hundred years: let it be the province, let it be the province, a place that lifts its status. But why destroy the seven thousand-year-old city, its history? As the President said... there's no such thing as a history. There's one businessman who says, "Mr. President, this is a historic city." We say, "You have published the book of Ahmadi Hani, and the Ministry of Culture has produced it." Feqiye is Teyran's hometown. What culture are you ignoring? Who gives you permission to do this? So, dear friends, we're really coming from there to let you all know how hurt our citizens here are. From here, we request that Hakkari and Şırnak withdraw the item concerning the trustees in particular. I salute the board.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0361par0107	Thank you. Mr. Bihlun Tamaylıgil is the last speaker of the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Tamayligil.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0362par0111	Thank you. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, about an hour ago, we came to you three or four articles ago and told you our opinion on a clause that existed in the bill again. What was it? A tax exception in a legal arrangement concerning heat insulation. We're talking about the same law, we're in the same bill. This is what we call soup, not torba. And now we've come to discuss our proposal on the relevant clause to give the Council of Ministers a very broad mandate to arrange taxes on online processing, trade transactions, and information transactions. Dear friends, we're not tired of saying over and over again that this is not the logic of law making, and you're not tired of listening, but the fact is that, now, when we look at where this law is going to go in terms of legislation in its content, what law is it in... here, sir, its name has changed, but there's a bill coming in here using the title of a separate code of law that begins and starts to be discussed tomorrow. Inside that bill, a building is being combined with a law proposal from our esteemed MP, the Speaker of Parliament, and it's being put here. After that, where will those who seek out and find out about the legislation -- which is related to the Internet? Let him search and find a mess, a soup, a bag; there will be a law in it. I want you to think with your conscience what right-of-life logic, what right arrangement is involved in making law in such a complicated way, when you look at such important materials -- now, when you look at these words together -- in a way that is so complicated? Dear friends, now in parliament, lawmakers are here to legislate and carry out their audit duties. In the legislature, this is where we all come and address the right to play in the name of the nation, in the immunity that this brings. None of you here has the right to see and shut down our thinking, even the length of our demand to correct a law, and try to cut it down. In any case, we will express our thoughts. This is the democratic Republic of Turkey. The seat of democracy will be the seat of the House. Let us do so together, knowingly, by means of this, and by means of what the Civil Code has brought us, that we may exercise the rights that we are entitled to. Look, when the bombs were dropped on this Veteran Assembly, the president of the CHP and the HDP and the MP and the AKP were standing beside him, guarding the Assembly. (HPP) Then we'll agree that we can all speak and we can share together while we make law on this important mission represented by this Assembly. About the Internet thing. See, in the online arrangement on the Internet, in the 1998 years, the OECD has laid out the rules to make arrangements at the point of non-regionality, at the point of indifference, at the point of non-region, in order to address the risks in terms of taxation and tax law, and we have explained what should be done. So, we've arranged for the first electronic signature against non-registership. Again, the e-process is very broad, so when you look at it today, technology is going so fast, but our tax laws are already -- I have a list, I don't have time, we have a pardon recently -- operating with a tax system that can't even collect a 90 billion tax bill. Now we're making another adjustment in the bag. This is more than just an arrangement to do in a bag like this, look, it's now universal transactions on the Internet. So what's the service, what's the product, who's the business that sells it in front of this product, what's the business address, what's the tax? Beyond that, we have bilateral agreements, no double taxation, sanctions that reveal that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Without looking at the details of any of them, there's a collective tax arrangement with a sense of tax release. We'd like to have it reconsidered. That's why we demand that this clause be corrected in the draft text. Good work, good evening.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0363par0122	Thank you, Mr. Tamayligil.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0364par0125	Roll call...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0363par0126	I will submit the same motions to your votes. We've got a roll call. Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Pine, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Adıyük, Mr. Karbıyük, Mr. Karabık, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Yılım, Mr. Kayşoğlu, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Arslan, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Kara, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Göker, Mr. Öz, Mr. Özdish. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Members of parliament, there is a request that the vote of the 9th article of the bill be held in the form of an open vote. Now, I'm going to find out by reading the names of the clients. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the opening vote on the 411th Turkish Entity Fund, which is being held in the form of the 9th Amendment. Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım? Here. Mr. Nihat Akdoğan? Here. Mr. Çağlar Demirel? Here. Mr. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir? Here. Mr. Mahmut Toğrul? Here. Mr. Suryet Taşdemir? Here. Mr. Garo Paylan? Here. Mr. Aycan İrmez? Here. Mr. Mehmet Ali Aslan? Here. Mr. Meral Danış Beştaş? Here. Mr. Berdan Ozturk? Here. Mr. Ayþe Acar Başaran? Here. Mr. Nursel Aydoğan? Here. Dear Adem Gaveri? Here. Mr. Besime Gonca? Here. Mr. Osman Baydemir? Here. Mr. Mahmoud Celadet Bagadel? Here. Mr. Müslüm Doğan? Here. Mr. Abdullah Zeydan? Here. Mr. Lezgin Botan? Here. Mr. Ayhan Bilgen? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. An open vote will be carried out by electronic device, according to the decision taken. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the clear vote on Article 9 of the Law Bill 411: ▪ Number of votes used: 215 [[x]] Alif Doğan Türkmen Fehmi Cubic So the 9th article was accepted. There are three motions on Article 10 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the Common Law Bill 411 shall be changed into the 10th Amendment. Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement be changed to the "fibric of the declaration" in Article 10 of the Law Bill 411 which is currently in session. Çağlar Demirel Abdullah Zeydan Nihat Akdoğan Besime Konca Ferhat Encu Saadet Capable Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and further amendments to the establishment of the 411-trial Fund of Turkey and to the amendment to certain Laws and Laws of Laws and to the amendment of Laws Against the Law on the Sales of Agriculture Lands of Treasures (2/571) by the Support of Forest Villages of 19/04/2012 and the Development of Forest Villages No. 6292 and by the Evaluation of Forest Borders on Treasure Names. With all due respect. Musa Pine Ancient Don't Stop Bihlun Tamayligil Zechariah Haziel Selin Sayek Böke Utku Çakırözer The following statement was added after the declaration of the 1st article of Article No. 210, dated 10-21/2/1963. Notary documents created in the magnetic environment and/or electronic data using electronic signatures Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0365par0197	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0363par0198	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0366par0199	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0363par0200	Mr. Kazim lion will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0367par0203	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund 411 and to the motion on the 10th Amendment in Article 10 of the Responsibility Bill. I salute you all with love. The 10th article we discussed today agrees to use electronic signatures and notary documents to be counted among valuable papers by adding up to its current definition of valuable paper. We have no objection to that. We will, of course, adapt to technological changes, but what we object to is that the difference between the title of the law and the content of the law is that many laws, along with this difference, are tried to negotiate, to be accepted. We criticize them every time. We're saying the bag shouldn't come with the law. As part of the law technique and as part of the law, and as part of the rule of law, we say that in order to ensure that this union is not broken, not by the bag of law, but by the law that carries its title, these items must be brought in, discussed, accepted, but we can't explain it to you. My dear friends, you've been acting with the government for many years, leaving the administration of the state, the administration of the police, the administration of the courts, the administration of the judiciary. At last, you've uncovered a Turkey face to face with a coup attempt. However, we see that you are still doing the wrong thing as a result of this coup attempt against both political parties and the public initiative. I want to make it clear to you that the laws under the law are being used in a way that exceeds the purpose and that changes are being made to the core of the state, and that you are trying to change the issues that the state has established with the law in its time, especially by shutting down military schools, to what point is Turkey today coming to today, and that it will face more difficult conditions in the future. Now, the changes you've made with the laws of the law will be possible to cause irreparable damage in the future. You're making mistakes, you're making mistakes, you're making the same mistakes, even though we say it over and over again as the opposition. For years, we said, "Do not cooperate with them. Make sure you keep Liyakate and don't bring people where they don't deserve them. You raised the people with your hands, and today you have caused trouble to the state and to the nation. Regarding the PKK, we said: "Do not negotiate with them, fight with them. You've tolerated them, you've strengthened them, you've caused them to descend from mountain to city, to arm themselves, to dig trenches. You can't clean them today. We said you were wrong about ISIS. But you said: "They are three or five naughty children." They can't do anything. You've made it an organization that's causing trouble to the Middle East and Turkey today. We said your policy on Syria was wrong, and you suddenly got Syria and Turkey into trouble, and today you've really brought Turkey to an unresolved, unresolved point. We say this, we say it over and over again, that you watch them carefully, that you're coming back from these mistakes... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And by saying that, I specifically suggest that you don't make mistakes and don't insist on mistakes, and I thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0368par0216	Thank you, Mr. lion. I will submit the motion to your votes. ll. - Exposure
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0369par0220	Roll call...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0368par0221	We've got a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Altay, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Karabiyuk, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Yımım, Mr. Kayşoğlu, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Kara, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Göker, Mr. Özer, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Division, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Doğan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement be changed to the "fibric of the declaration" in Article 10 of the Law Bill 411 which is currently in session. Çağlar Demirel (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0370par0235	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0368par0236	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0371par0237	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0368par0238	Mr. Abdullah Zeydan will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Zeydan.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0372par0241	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Many articles of the bag bill that we have discussed are filled with regulations that ignore the will of the people, which deliver the will of the people to the appointed ones. In the past, these laws, which have suffered the most from the appointed bureaucratic custody, from a most victimized, most painful political tradition, and in many articles have brought the will of the people to the appointed ones, are unfortunate in terms of political power. In particular, the appointment of trustees to replace the elected mayors and council members of the public vote is a coup against the will of the people. In the same way, the transformation of our cities of Hakkari and Şırnak without consulting our people, NGOs, means ignoring the people there and sacrificing the people there. Honourable lawmakers, the appointment of an officer outside the will of the people would be a coup against the people and the will of the people, in place of those who have been suspended, that the mayors, city councilmen, the Ministry of Interior, and the governors could be suspended. The municipalities are the closest public service institutions. These appointed officers must be well calculated how to get inside a people whose will to inspect the services to be taken care of. In addition, the accountability of these appointed trustees against the public does not exist in this bill. They will have no responsibility to the public if they do not abuse their duties and serve them. In this regard, the need for the chosen ones to account for the public elections is not involved in these trustee appointments. Again, the government's reasons for reducing Hakkari and Şırnak provinces from the province's status and moving their headquarters are not insufficient and convincing. In the beginning, it should be noted that the province of the districts of Yüksekova and Cizre, the district of Derecik, the development of these centers in terms of trade, the rising standards of the people there are something we all desire. However, there is no need for the district of Hakkari and Şırnak. We will rephrase in future matter negotiations how inappropriate, unfair and unfair these reasons are, especially in the name of geographical development and according to the intelligence reports made by security units. Dear friends, Hakkari is a city that has led many civilizations from the Ottoman era to the near Republic, in its central position, in its cradled position, like Ahmed-i Hani, Mele Huseyni Bateyi, Feqiye Teyran, and a city of historical and cultural fabric. Here, our people's only livelihood is income due to its ilificity. There is no agriculture in Hakkari, there is no industry in Hakkari, there is no production in Hakkari. It is certain that in the case of Hakkari, there will be a great number of migrations. Dear friends, if we want to do something to the people there, together, first of all, we have to fight together to stop the blood of brothers flowing in Turkey. I believe that all of us, especially after the coup attempt on July 15th, must take self-criticism, fulfill our responsibilities in order for this blood to stop and first begin this process in order to lift the lockdown on Mr. Ocalan, to begin the process of peace and dialogue.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0373par0249	Thank you, Mr. Zeydan. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0374par0253	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0373par0254	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Şazan, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Konca, Mr. Kürkcu, Mr. Botan, Mr. Tuyurul, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. İrmez. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. Please don't leave the hall, friends with compasses. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the Common Law Bill 411 shall be replaced in the form of the following. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0375par0269	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0373par0270	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0376par0271	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0373par0272	Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya will speak on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0377par0275	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on the motion we have made regarding the proposed bill. I salute you all. The 10th article is not a tax law, but as far as it's concerned, it predicts electronic signature-based data in magnetic environments, notarized documents, and counted in valuable papers. Of course, first of all, I'd like to say that we're trying to encourage electronic signatures, electronic communication documentation, recording. We're expressing that this is going to lead to economic savings, preventing labour force losses, and we're doing incentives in this sense. On the other hand, we're here today, with this proposal from the bill, showing that these incentives don't really mean anything. Of course, the other way around is that in a sense, the government is engaged in the effort and effort to calculate the oil of the fly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in this case, perhaps we can see it as a pen to add only to the valuable paper list. I don't want to go into a lot of evaluations on this, but as always, we've changed some tax laws along with the current bill. Again, in the past few days, we've passed a series of bills on improving the investment climate. In fact, we're working day and night with the opposition and the ruling party MPs, and we're all doing something for this country, but when we look at the plans that the government has put in front of us, I'm afraid we don't see if the effort here is being repaid. For example, if we wanted to make a major change in the development of the investment climate, first of all, there was a need for an arrangement for taxes, a reform of the business environment, as well as this investment environment, but today, tax legislation has become inextricable. We've just met in Article 8; we've made a change in Article 67 of the Law on Taxes. When you read the Interim 67th article from cover to cover, you can see that even your experts can't understand it. Just to be an example, there are 126 articles of income tax law 193, all of which contain multiple substances. There are 85 of the 126 articles of income tax law -- several multilateral laws in between -- one temporary clause. In other words, 40 per cent of the Law on Taxes has become almost temporary. Therefore, temporaryness has become a continuity in our tax legislation, and exceptions have become essential. If we really want to do something for this country -- we've given up on you doing a tax reform -- let's at least simplify the tax legislation to avoid some confusion. And if you're not doing that, if you're not doing that, then let's not complicate this tax legislation that's already complicated by this bag of laws that you've brought in, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0378par0282	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0379par0286	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0378par0287	We've got a roll call. Congressmans, I need 20 people to stand up so I can meet this request. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Şazan, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Toğul, Mr. Konca, Mr. Botan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Akdoğan, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Özturk. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, there is a request for an open vote in the 10th amendment vote. Now, I'm going to identify the names of the lawmakers who are in demand. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the opening vote of the 10th Amendment to the establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund, which is currently held in 411 rows, and to change the amendments to certain Laws and Laws. Ahmet Yıldırım? Here. Age of Ironel? Here. Filiz Kerestecioğlu? Here. Suryet Taşdemir? Here. Aycan İrmez? Here. Meral Danış Beştaş? Here. Adam Gaveri? Here. Garo Paylan? Here. Mehmet Ali Aslan? Here. Céladet Bagpipe? Here. Nursel Aydoğan? Here. Berdan Ozturk? Here. Ayþe Acar Başaran? Here. Osman Baydemir? Here. Ayhan Bilgen? Here. Mahmoud Toğrul? Here. Abdullah Zeydan? Here. Nihat Akdoğan? Here. Lesgin Botan? Here. Müslüm Doğan? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. As per the decision taken, we're going to hold an open vote with an electronic device. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[The electronic device started voting.]] There's enough for a meeting...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0380par0325	Vote, vote, President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0378par0326	Oh, I'm confused.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0381par0327	Let's have soup, let's sail, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0382par0328	The clock's ticking, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0378par0329	Should we take a break? Congressmans, you go out in the middle, think about this weird Court. (HPP and HDP in rows) See what we've come up with.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0383par0331	Take a break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0384par0332	Mr. President, we'll work until morning, so you can get some rest.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit09spe0378par0333	Let's take a break, and then we'll work till morning, okay? [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the clear vote on Article 10 of the Law Bill 411: ▪ Number of votes used: 202 [[x]] Alif Doğan Türkmen Fehmi Cubic So the 10th article was accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit10spe0378par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 126th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 411. Commission? Here. Government? Here. There are three motions on Article 11 of the bill, which I will have read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and further amendments to the establishment of the 411-trial Fund of Turkey and to the amendment to certain Laws and Laws of Laws and to the adoption of the Law on the sale of Lands of Agriculture of the Treasury (2/571) in accordance with the development of Forest Villages of No. 19/4/2012 and the development of Forest Villages No. 6292 and the assessment of the Lands of Forests in the Treasure Name of Treasury. With all due respect. Erkan Aydın Musa Pine Ancient Don't Stop Bihlun Tamaylıgil Utku Kırözer Selin Sayek Böke The 8th row (b) of the Court of Honor (IV) was changed in the following way. "b" has completed at least four years of higher education faculty or higher education and has been assigned to the first-level staff, as long as the "Il-Reparations" section of Article 152 is entitled to "A-Special Service Compensation" (g) in the central body of the central body of the department (g). Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the Central Organization, which is part of Article 11 of Law Bill 411, is removed from the text of matter. Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Konya Samsun Antalya Erkan Haberal Kadir Koçdemir İsmail Faruk Aksu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and demand that Article 11 of the Law Bill 411 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel Abdullah Zeydan Nihat Akdoğan Besime Konca Saadet Skilled Ferhat Encu Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit10spe0385par0031	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit10spe0378par0032	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit10spe0386par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit10spe0378par0034	Van MP Lezgin Botan will be speaking on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Botan.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit10spe0387par0037	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on the 11th Amendment. You know, on July 15th, we all faced a low blow. This coup wasn't just a coup intended for the ruling party, no doubt a coup intended only for the President. They've shown here that you've targeted 80 million people and all of us by bombing Parliament. However, a lesson that must be learned from the July 15th event is that it is God's grace. Rather than being called a cause for democracy, social peace, inner peace, we are all using it to intimidate the opposition, silence the opposition, and now we're learning that it's getting out of control, that it's becoming a witch hunt. Turkey has been through a great blow, but we can't all enjoy it together in society; the ruling party, unfortunately, has put its own secret agent, its own luggage in front of society, where it can express itself freely, its identity, its social, philosophical property, its society, in fact, resists the impact on the streets, its resistance spirit into the spirit of brotherhood. So far 76,000 public employees have been suspended, 5,000 of them have been dismissed altogether, so we can see that 82 thousand public employees have been taken indiscriminately, without being investigated, without being investigated on the grounds of this terrorist organization. Of course, anyone involved in this coup should be found on the right basis and tried within the law, but in doing so, we see that the members of the terrorist organization, the TMOB, and many other NGOs who had nothing to do with the terrorist organization, were victims of all the resources, all the resources of the AKP, the governors, the bureaucrats, even all the economic resources that were involved in this coup, have been subjected to this terrorist organization for years, and have been subjected to this terrorist organization for years, and have been subjected to the same reason that many of these individuals have been subjected to exile, and have been subjected by the same reason that they have been subjected to terror organizations. So it's hard to get social peace out of here, to get social democracy out of such a mentality. Now, what we see with the example is that Ergenekon burned the Kurdish intellectuals, Ergenekon killed Musa Anter, Ergenekon killed Özal, Hrant Dink killed Ergenekon; Ergenekon did this; Ergenekon did this; but Fethullah killed the Kurdish intellectuals while you were working on the same site. We understand that now, by ignoring a will that represents the will of the People's Democratic Party, the so-called six million people, with the support you gave to this disbanded terrorist organization in Turkey, against this mindset that has destroyed and paralyzed the state by means of means, in fact, four political parties here have to rebuild the state with a democratic program. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...through democratic foundations, we see that you and the Laughing Congregation continue to do the same.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit10spe0388par0043	Thank you, Mr. Botan.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit10spe0389par0044	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit10spe0388par0045	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0388par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th Session of the 126th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The vote of the motion on Article 11 did not amount to a sufficient number of decisions. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We will resume the talks of Bill 411. The Commission and the Government are here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the Central Organization, which is part of Article 11 of Law Bill 411, is removed from the text of matter. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0390par0011	We can't agree.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0388par0012	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0391par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0388par0014	İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0392par0017	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on Article 11 of the Law Bill 411. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. In accordance with the 11th article we are discussing, the Constitutional Court renegotiated by the Constitutional Court on the basis of Article 666, the sentence, which has been revoked by the Constitutional Court, is being reorganised as it was before the 8th order of the Court of Appeals (IV). Dear MPs, it has been 17 years since the disaster of the age of August 17, 1999, the Marmara earthquake. I hereby bless the lives of our citizens who died in the earthquake. We haven't forgotten what happened on August 17th, but it seems we've forgotten the possibility of a new earthquake, both as individuals and as governments. As it is known, Turkey is under the threat of many natural disasters, especially earthquakes, such as floods and landslides, but more than 60 per cent of the natural disasters in our country create earthquakes, and almost all of the country is affected by earthquakes. 42% of our land is in the first-degree earthquake zone. 44 per cent of the population live in the first and 26 per cent second and 15 per cent third and 13 per cent fourth and 2 per cent fifth degree earthquake area. Settlements are usually unplanned, insensitive to disaster, disrupting ecological balances, inviting disaster. More than 60 per cent of existing structures are in the risky structure group. However, despite the fact that we experienced the Marmara and Düzce earthquakes 17 years ago, there was not enough improvement in the measures to minimize the impact of the earthquake. After the 1999 earthquake, significant structural measures were taken, while they were not carried out in sufficient activity, and a rapid transformation programme was not implemented. Today there is still no effective application for the creation of new settlements by focusing on risk management. Our people are almost abandoned to their fates against the earthquake. The main reason for the losses and damage caused by disasters is the lack of management in the planning process, in the development process, and in the development process, that allows for arbitrary practices and abuse. This unscheduled tissue, composed of corruption, lack of control and political concerns, takes cities out of healthy living spaces. Dear MPs, Istanbul is a mega-city in many countries, where 14 million,657,000 people live. 18.5 per cent of Turkey's population live in Istanbul. Corrupt urbanization and illegal construction are a great danger to Istanbul, which risks earthquakes. More than half of the 2.5 million buildings in Istanbul are zoning, or illegal buildings. It is clear that runaway buildings will suffer serious damage in the event of a possible earthquake. The urban transformation has gone from disaster to priority, and the city has become zenith-oriented. However, urban transformation must first be done with an understanding that protects disaster-sensitive cultural and historical tissue, aesthetic values. In this scope, it is not clear whether a disaster zone and micro-districting study on areas that have thus far been at risk of earthquakes, including Istanbul, and whether a risk analysis and master plan work for the whole of Istanbul is available, whether there is enough preparation for the possible earthquake disaster and the evacuation of the people from the region is being made. Although 17 years have passed since the great earthquake, these preparations have not yet been completed, it is a great negligence. The approach that understands urban transformation studies, which have only been driven from preparation to produce urban rants, will mean not being able to comprehend the magnitude of the problem or insisting on neglect. Therefore, the necessary and sufficient preparations for an earthquake must be made quickly, measures must be taken, and the level of awareness of our citizens must be increased. When remembering August 17, 1999, the possibility of a new earthquake should not be forgotten. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0393par0029	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0394par0033	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0393par0034	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Başaran, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Konca, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Türgül, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Akdoğan, Mr. Zaydan, Mr. Özturkk. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and further amendments to the establishment of the 411-trial Fund of Turkey and to the amendment to certain Laws and Laws of Laws and to the adoption of the Law on the sale of Lands of Agriculture of the Treasury (2/571) in accordance with the development of Forest Villages of No. 19/4/2012 and the development of Forest Villages No. 6292 and the assessment of the Lands of Forests in the Treasure Name of Treasury. With all due respect. The 8th row (b) of the Court of Honor (IV) was changed in the following way. "b" has completed at least four years of higher education faculty or higher education and has been assigned to the first-level staff, as long as the "Il-Reparations" section of Article 152 is entitled to "A-Special Service Compensation" (g) in the central body of the central body of the department (g). Erkan Aydın (Bursa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0395par0051	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0393par0052	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0396par0053	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0393par0054	Mr. Erkan Aydın will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0397par0057	Mr. President, I've made a pledge on Article 11 of the Law Bill 411. It's been about a month since the coup attempt. In the process, all our people united around democracy, and our House took the most important role in preventing this coup. While parliamentary and public tolerance prevailed, this bill brought an end to the ruling agreement, and we are discussing the matter at 2 p.m. at 2 p.m. It occurs to me that in the event of this bill's legalisation, I wonder if we're going to say, under the consequences, we've been cheated again. Because if the bill is adopted as such, Turkey's State Entity Management will become the most privileged, privileged company ever established in Turkey. So that, for example, the assets of the funds he will manage will not be foreclosed on, there will be no precautionary measures, and this fund will be exempted from a number of substances such as income tax, institution tax, stamp tax, and capital costs. So, is that a right or a justice, or is that a state of seriousness? That's what I want to ask you. You put the 11th article of this bill into effect in 2011, by shutting down the ruling law of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. But the Constitutional Court cancelled it, and said to you: "O government, do not exceed your own legal powers, obey constitutional obligations, do not go outside the constitutional framework." But he came here again today. After July 15th, the state of emergency took place on the grounds that there were acts of violence in the country aimed at eliminating democracy, fundamental rights and freedoms. In accordance with the laws issued, the decrees must be in accordance with them. But the government puts all relevant matters into a court-martial basket. The closure of military high schools, the conditions of children who will graduate from military schools, the conditions of teachers, the annulment of business transactions without any investigations... is associated with the state of emergency and put an end to law enforcement. I'm sure these will form thick files in the Constitutional Court, and they will be able to return from the Constitutional Court and seek their rights here, just like the 11th article we're currently considering. The government's failure to listen to the opposition reminds me of an old Turkish proverb. You can correct the mistakes, but you can't erase the scars. At the point where I'm sad to see that the government doesn't correct their mistakes, the trails that they leave in the country get heavier, just like the elements of this soup law. On the other hand, I consider the government's commitment to international markets to create such a fund, not to be taken by bureaucrats preparing the bill, but not to be properly understood by global economic developments. It's no surprise that the billions of dollars of public money in the fund will be sunk in these markets, and in return, some of these transactions will receive serious revenues in the name of commissions, transactions, management fees. I wish, instead of funding from unstable international markets, they could create projects that could benefit the people and the economy of our country. I wish these decisions could be carried out through an international or regional investment bank that determines the country's economy and the real needs of the region and makes decisions possible. It's not too late, and it's a virtue to come back from error. Come, give up an arrangement that will destroy the resources of the country. Listen to our voices this time, and don't go on an adventure, and don't say we've been cheated. Because such arrangements were tried after September 12th, but there were no benefits. I'm saying don't make another mistake. Come on, let's all draft a bill that we can agree on. I'm just saying, let's keep the public in a good mood for a month, and from now on, we'll be more comfortable in front of people. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0398par0065	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0399par0069	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0398par0070	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Danış Beştaş, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Konca, Mr. Kürkçülü, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Togurul, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Akdoğan, Mr. Botan, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Bilgen. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, there is a request for an open vote on the 11th article of the bill, and I will have them read it and identify the names of the MPs who have the will. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 411th draft vote of the 11th Amendment of the draft Law shall be held in the form of a clear vote of the 411th Amendment to the establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund, which is currently in session. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir? Here. Osman Baydemir? Here. Age of Ironel? Here. Suryet Taşdemir? Here. Nihat Akdoğan? Here. Meral Danış Beştaş? Here. Abdullah Zeydan? Here. Garo Paylan? Here. Berdan Ozturk? Here. Behcet Yıldırım? Here. Besime Konca? Here. Mahmoud Toğrul? Here. Ertugrul Furman? Here. Adam Gaveri? Here. Nursel Aydoğan? Here. Ayþe Acar Başaran? Here. Ahmet Yıldırım? Here. Mahmoud Celadet Bagadel? Here. Müslüm Doğan? Here. Ayhan Bilgen? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the clear vote of Article 11 of the Law Bill 411: ▪ Number of votes used: 197 [[x]] Fehmi Cubic Elif Doğan Türkmen Thus the 11th article was accepted. There are three motions in Article 12 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and propose that the declaration of the 411th Amendment be changed "all rights, costs and compensations are applied in all cases in all cases in all cases in all cases." Çağlar Demirel Abdullah Zeydan Nihat Akdoğan Besime Konca Saadet Skilled Ferhat Encu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of the Peace Fund in 411, and the Amendment of Law and Law Orders of the Law on the Sales of Agriculture Lands of the Treasury (2/571) by the Support of the Development of Forest Villages No.19/04/2012 and the Development of Forest Villages No. 6292, and by the Appreciation of Places Outside Forest Borders in the Treasure's Name. With all due respect. Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Ancient Durmaz Selin Sayek Böke Bihlun Tamaylıgil Utku Cakirözer ADDE 12-20/7/1966 and Subsequent Article 775 was added to the following temporary clause. The fee for the land or housing allocation is paid to the rightful owners or heirs within the limits of Gaziantep Ili, Şahinbey County, if the property or housing allocation of the premises cannot be carried out before the deadline for which this clause has been implemented; the charges paid for the land or housing allocation are paid by the relevant administration to be issued within three months of the day of payment. Other than that, the rightful owners cannot demand any rights, compensations, or compensation from the administration. The first joke of this clause is carried out by the rightful owners before the date of its execution, and in any case that has been opened with the name of land or dwellings due to the failure of the land or housing allocations carried out by the authorities, with costs or similar demands not yet finalised. The costs of prosecution are paid by the defendant's administration, which has been denied due to the execution of this sentence by the courts. In cases that remain under this clause, court fees and any amount of power of attorney are determined as victims. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 12 of the Law Bill 411 be removed from the draft text. Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Erkan Haberal Kadir Koçdemir Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0400par0138	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0398par0139	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0401par0140	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0398par0141	Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0402par0144	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have taken a pledge on Article 12 of the Law Bill 411 on behalf of our group regarding the motion made by the Nationalist Movement Party, and I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, we will not bring another bag arrangement that has become a classic of the AKP. Although the promise has been made, it continues to come with an arrangement called "torba"; and this one is not seen to end.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0398par0147	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0402par0148	Some articles that are against the Constitution, in particular, intended to deliver to an address or even benefit are compressed into the bag of laws. In addition, legislatures are carried out in an irregular, sloppy, incomplete, and unresolved manner. This bill was also very messy and unresolved, and was repeatedly tried to correct it with motions.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0398par0150	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0402par0151	The opposition's motions were not taken into consideration, contrary to the grounds of reconciliation following the coup attempt on July 15th. Congressmans, in drafting this bill, 39 separate laws have been set to be changed, but the opinion of the nine commissions, including the Justice Commission, Health, Family, Labour and Social Affairs Commission, Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission, has not, unfortunately, been received. In this case, the amendments to this bill will soon be re-opened with a new bag of legislation to redesign. Members of lawmakers, it is against the Constitution to intervene in the 12th and other provisions of the bill, such as restricting the rights and debts of citizens, blocking freedoms of rights, fabricating and plundering forest areas, disposing of agricultural land, and order to prevent precautionary measures and execution by courts. The relevant agencies, Gaziantep Şahinbey, are trying to resolve the issues among the concerned administration and citizens, which are involved in some of the issues of the judiciary, as Gaziantep Şahinbey Municipality has failed to carry out its land distribution activities on time under Law 775. At this point, legislation is being brought to trial, and the problem is being resolved by a special provision. This is also contrary to the Constitution. With this clause, all judicial channels of the citizen are required to be closed by law. Therefore, all the laws that need to be general are reduced to private laws. Mistakes made by other bodies under the principles of separation of forces should be resolved by the same organs under the rule of rule of law, while instead, unfortunately, the Turkish Parliament is trying to solve the bag of legislation. Hatay Kurıkhan, my own constituency, also assigned land for those without homes in 1991. In time, citizens tried to buy this land with gold bracelets in cash or with scarce means on the terms of that day, and made payments to the municipality. However, the total payment, due to the payments made that day, is $2,750. Today's price is $6,985 when it's considered gold. Today, even if this money is paid with legal interest, it can't afford land value. According to Amme Acquisition Law 6183, legal interest is 13 per cent, but in today's markets, legal interest rates are 22 per cent to 24 per cent. When inflation is calculated for years, it will not again prevent the victims of the citizen. Legal interest is estimated at 9%, including time spent, and the citizen will still be victimised. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So I ask that this clause be withdrawn from the bill, and I invite the High Council to act justly in this regard, all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0403par0159	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of the 411 Entity Fund and the Amendment to Some Laws and Laws of Laws, and the 12th Amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, dated 19/04/2012, to the Development of Forest Villages No. 6292, and the Protection of Forest Borders in the Treasure's Name, as well as the assessment of Places Out of Forest Borders, and the Law Proposal for the sale of Lands of Treasures (2/571). With all due respect. ADDE 12-20/7/1966 and Subsequent Article 775 was added to the following temporary clause. The fee for the land or housing allocation is paid to the rightful owners or heirs within the limits of Gaziantep Ili, Şahinbey County, if the property or housing allocation of the premises cannot be carried out before the deadline for which this clause has been implemented; the charges paid for the land or housing allocation are paid by the relevant administration to be issued within three months of the day of payment. Other than that, the rightful owners cannot demand any rights, compensations, or compensation from the administration. The first joke of this clause is carried out by the rightful owners before the date of its execution, and in any case that has been opened with the name of land or dwellings due to the failure of the land or housing allocations carried out by the authorities, with costs or similar demands not yet finalised. The costs of prosecution are paid by the defendant's administration, which has been denied due to the execution of this sentence by the courts. In cases that remain under this clause, court fees and any amount of power of attorney are determined as victims. Moses Pine (Izmir) and his friends Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0404par0170	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0403par0171	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0405par0172	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0403par0173	Gaziantep MP Mehmet Gökdağ will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Gökdağ. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've had a lot of applause, Mr. Gökdağ.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0406par0177	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 12th amendment of the proposed bill. I salute the General Assembly. Deliberate lawmakers envision that the bill be added a temporary clause to Sublime Law 775. Now I'd like to read the clause to better understand this law, the matter. The article states: "If there is no such thing as the application of land or housing allocations carried out in accordance with the law interest that is to be paid within the area of Şahinbey County, before the period of this clause is taken into effect, the charges paid by the owners of the land or housing grants, due to the application of the relevant administration, or due to the application of the property, will be paid back within three months of the payment day, as well as the legal interest, which will be calculated from the day of payment. The second statement states: "This item is being carried out by its rightful owners before the day of execution. Now, my dear friends, as you can see, the substance is only being arranged for savings within the district of Gaziantep Şahinbey. So it's a delivery clause. Now, when you think about it, why is it that in Gaziantep Şahinbey, the law, which should be passed in general, is being passed in a way that is contrary to the technique of law enforcement? Look, let me explain this to you. A project is being launched by Cumhuriyet People's Party municipality in Gaziantep Şahinbey district of my constituency district, in 2003 to make narrow-income citizens their homes. The project is called the Nuke Housing Project. 1,700 people, 1,700 families, or 1,700 small-income families, are being launched to make a home. Families pay the municipality and hope for the day when they will be hosted. Meanwhile, the AKP-based municipality, which won the election in 2004, is coming to work. The AKP-based municipality's work immediately changes the development plan for the site, which will take place on 7/7/2005, and the project to make narrow-income families home is being eliminated. After this change of zoning, which destroyed the dreams of the 1,700 small-income family, some of the rightful owners -- according to information that has come to us -- bring the issue to justice. They want to be compensated for their loss. At the end of the years of legal struggle, the court decides that the damage suffered by the rightful owners should be paid by the city of Şahinbey. This decision is passed through the Supreme Court processes, it is approved, and even the Supreme Court has a decision on the accuracy of this decision. With this decision, the rights holders receive between 60,000 and 80,000 liras. Right here are cases that haven't ended yet, cases that haven't been finalized. At this point, this Hawkbey address is put into the bag bill. If payment is paid according to this clause, dear friends, the amount that the judiciary decides to pay between 60,000 and 80,000 will be reduced to 8-10 thousand liras. If this clause is accepted, the dreams of owning a house will be completely victimised by small-income families who have been destroyed by a violation of the Constitution, against the rule of law and against the principle of social state. You are removing the compensation that the city of Şahinbey has to pay with a judicial decision and will remain with an unconstitutional arrangement. Dear friends, do you know what we're doing at this time of night? You know what we do at 2:00? We're setting up the legal ground for more victims of those narrow-income families. My dear friends, we've always said, and we say again, we are here at the Turkish National Assembly, where the will of the people is represented, to defend the rights and interests of citizens, and we are here to make laws for that. It should not be the duty of this Assembly to make an arrangement that would cause the citizen's victimhood. It's early, it's not over yet. Take this arrangement away from this bill, this bag, and we'll get justice. Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0407par0187	Thank you, Mr. Gökdağ. I will submit the motion to your votes... ll. - Exposure
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0408par0191	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-17sit11spe0407par0192	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Basian, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Konca, Mr. Kürkcu, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Togurul, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Akdoğan, Mr. Krayman, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Botan. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Since the matter has been reorganised in accordance with the agreed motion, it is imperative to remove the other motion from the process. Now, I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
