tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Have a good day at work, lawmakers. According to our agenda today, we will continue talks on the 2017 Central Management Budget Law bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. According to the program, we'll be interviewing in round one today. The first round includes the presidency, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Council of the State, the Office of the Prime Minister, the Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency, the Secretary General of the National Security Board, the President of the Religious Affairs, Radio and Television Council, the Office of Press and Information, the budget and final accounts. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Executive Account for 2015 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2015 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2015 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2017 2) Prime Ministership Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The President of the Religious Works' Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) The Head of Religious Affairs 2015 Central Management Terminate Account RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING 1) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasure 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account Commission? Here. Government? Here. Members of parliament, the budget talks have decided that the questions must be asked without justification and the question-answer process for each round is 20 minutes. According to this, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. After the talks on the tour are over, the questioners will ask their questions in order of order on the screen. The process of asking questions is limited to ten minutes. The answer will still be given ten minutes. It's for your information. Now, in the first round, I'm reading the names of the members of lawmakers who were quoted on behalf of their groups and individuals: On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Bartın MP Mr. Yilmaz Tunç, İstanbul MP Mr. Halis Dalkılıç, Hatay MP Mr. Orhan Karasayar, İstanbul MP Mr. Haydar Ali Yıldız, Afyonkarahisar MP Mr. Ali Özkaya, İzmir MP Mr. Mahmut Atilla Kaya, Tripoli MP Mr. Salih Cora, Balıkesir MP Mr. November Bolu MP Mr. Ali Ercoshkun, Bursana MP Mr. İsmail Aydın, Nigde MP Mr. Alpaslan Kabağıoğlu, Manisa MP Mr. Murat Baybatur, Çağır MP Mr. Mümükır MP Mr. Mümümümümazı, Mr. Akazı MP Altın Akazı MP Aktın Aktın Akçı, İstanbul MP Akçı MP. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Mr. Celal Doğan, Mardin MP Mithat Sancar, Diyarbakır MP Nimetullah Erdoğmuş, Muş MP Ahmet Yıldırım, İstanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak. On behalf of the Milliyetçi Movement Party Group, İstanbul MP Edip Semih Yalçın, Mersin MP Mr. Oktay Özturk, Muğla MP Mehmet Erdoğan, İstanbul MP Atila Kaya and Antalya MP Mehmet Günal will speak. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group, Ankara MP Ahmet Haluk Koç, Ankara MP Mr. Tekin Bingöl, Adana MP Mr. Elif Doğan Türkmen, Ankara MP Mr. Murat Amir, Mugla MP Ömer Süha Aldan, İstanbul MP Gürsel Tekin, İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal, İzmir MP Mr. Ahmet Tuncay Özkan, İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkan, İzmir MP Mr. Atila Serkel, İstanbul MP Kadri Enis Karbiyik will speak. On behalf of its people, Aydın MP Mr. Abdurrahman Öz and İstanbul MP Barış Ycık will speak. Members of parliament, each MP's order of speech is appointed by their own groups in the budget talks. I'd like to ask you to finish your conversation in your time. And I'm already declaring that I can't give you an extension. Thank you, and we're starting to talk. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Bartın MP Yilmaz Bronzeç will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Bronze. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0002par0072	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group regarding the presidential budget. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. The president is the head of state, representing the unity of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation, observing the implementation of the Constitution and the regular and harmonisation of state bodies. The presidential elections are called in our political history by crises, by tokens, by coups. Before the election of the 11th President, I will then elect the president. He said that on 10 August 2014, this was his first practice, and on 10 August 2014, democracy, which was the prime minister for the longest period of 12 years in the history of democracy, in each area, in the face of the declaration of 27 April and the 367 conditions. The 2007 constitutional amendment and the president's mandates, the fact that there has been no change in relations between legislation and execution, have already turned our government system, which is called a weak parliamentary system, into a presidential system, closer to the presidential system. Since the people elected the president, he has a political responsibility to the public. The use of our President's constitutional powers in some circles has led to criticism. However, it is not the actual situation, but the use of the authority to obtain its source from the Constitution. The reason that there is no system crisis today is because the AK PARTY, the founding leader of our President, is that the EC PARTY is in the majority of Parliament and demonstrates a work in harmony with our Prime Minister. Can we imagine that the harmony that we have now will continue forever? The possible tensions in a different political picture will be very difficult to resolve within constitutional mechanisms. The Prime Minister, who is elected by the people and is in charge of the administration with the President, is like the two drivers on the steering wheel of one car. If they have different political tendencies or are not compatible with each other, the steering wheel will be turned on different sides, and that car will be turned over. So either we're going to have to change the Constitutional decree on the election of the President by the people, which is not possible, and I'm going to take the authority of our nation. I don't want the presidential elections to be a crisis. He's agreed to this authority by saying, "I don't want the presidential elections to be a crisis." Or since it won't be possible to get that power back, our job is to determine a government model in the Constitution that fits the President's position. A change in government system is not a change in regime. The parliamentary system and the presidential system are both democratic and within the republic's regime. The founding power, which will be preferred, is in the power of the House, and ultimately, in the power of the nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The most obvious feature of democracy and the republic is the rule of separation of forces that we all agree on. The separation of forces is weak in the parliamentary system where the executive comes from within the law. The presidential system, where the administration is selected separately, is the best system for separation of forces. Parliament is stronger in the presidential system. There is no logical explanation for claiming that the president, who can perform under Parliament's laws, who serves the public in accordance with Parliament's budget, who will come with the election and go with the election, will be the president. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There is no possibility of coalitions in the presidential system, and it produces stability; the result of stability is development, increasing public well-being means that the country's economy will grow exponentially. By maintaining our university structure, this Parliament should determine a government model that is appropriate for our country -- its name may be the presidential system, or it may be the president's system, which does not matter at all -- where the failures in the world's practices have been removed. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) (APPLAUSE) (WOH) We have to choose rational construction that will move opportunities into the future instead of loss of opportunity. He says, "Let's eliminate the potential crisis threat in the future, strengthen our republic, and hope for the best of the 2017 budget, before we lock the constitutional amendment in our president's person, thinking about the future of our children."
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0003par0085	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. You've had a lot of applause, Mr. Bronze, since you're the first speaker. Let's hear it for all of us, and hopefully from now on. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Halis Dalklıc will now speak. Here you are, Mr. Dalkilic.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0004par0091	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group regarding the budget of our presidency in 2017. I hereby salute our beloved nation and the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the most important goal of the 15th July low occupation and coup attempt has been our President, Prime Minister, Grand National Assembly, and the Presidential Chamber. In this low attack on the nation's will, the F16s have not only killed the Parliament of the Great Nation, but also our presidency, our Republic, who bombed our nation, who dropped low bombs on our nation, who have martyred 29 of our brothers from around the Republic, who have been wounded, and many of our brothers have been veterans. Praise be to God, this great nation, who, as always, has defied our esteemed President's stand, the firm stance of our Parliament, and most importantly, this treacherous coup attempt by our nation's heroic struggle. Dear lawmakers, from time to time, a part of society, especially our opposition party friends, speak a lot of words, including the lack of information about our presidency, including various criticisms, unjust accusations, and sometimes beyond the rules of kindness. I think it's because of a lack of knowledge, in good faith. However, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to provide some information. Our presidential coven is not just from the administration building. In the past July 29th, the Fivetepe Nation Congress and Culture Center, which was inaugurated in a grand ceremony attended by our veteran relatives, hosted many meetings from that day until now, and became the site of the public's visit every day. After that, the Fivetepe Nation Mosque opposite him, which has been inaugurated as one of Ankara's symbol architectures, our nation is racing to get there, to see it. And now there's a big project going on, our library. When our library -- which started this year and was completed -- is finished -- will have provided a library with 5 million volume books, all kinds of electronic infrastructure and equipment, hopefully, as a proud monument to our Ankara, our Turkey. So if we're aware of them, your approach to them should be more objective. If we don't know, I think it would be better for them to go out and pray in a mosque in Fivepepe, where they will come and criticize us, together with our citizens in the mosque courtyard.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0005par0097	You're doing it... you're doing it, that's enough.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0004par0098	After our esteemed lawmakers gave the information about our Külliye building, our president's presidential office and understanding now appeared only at official ceremonies with foreign state guests, when he arrived in their provinces and districts, our people, who saw a president greeting the people from inside the car in their news bulletins, were aware that he had elected the President in the new era, and had met with the president of the Republic in Ashliye, the people's home. Only this year, 42,000 of our citizens were welcomed to Ashliye, and with the Ministry of Interior's organization, our 11.537 head of staff met with our President, and the presidents of various trade groups and NGOs were able to host and discuss it with our President. 630,000 people who applied to CIMER have applied to our President through letters and e-mails, seeking a cure for their problems, and these applications have been carefully monitored. The fact that our president is having meetings with the nation, it is clear and clear that every part of society, especially our martyrs and veteran families, has come to visit the Ashliah as a result of the presidential office's ability to come out of a cold, statusist state institution and become the home of the nation. Just this change shows how accurate the constitutional amendment is, how good it is for our nation. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the President's budget for the 2017 fiscal year is 648,500,000 liras, and the capital costs of $350 million, which amount to 54 per cent... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the remaining 46 per cent have been designated as current transfer costs.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0006par0106	Mr. Dalkulic, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0004par0107	I ask that the budget for our presidency, which is the highest office of our state, the representative of the nation, should be a source of good service, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0006par0109	Thank you, Mr. Dalkulic. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Hatay MP Orhan Karasayar will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Blackbeard.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0007par0113	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the 2017 budget of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I salute the High Council. Before I begin my remarks, I wish you the best of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act. On this occasion, I would like to welcome all of you, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to your future efforts. Before considering the Turkish National Assembly budget, I wish our martyrs who died in the coup attempt on July 15th of the PDY terror organization to God's mercy and well-being to our veterans.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0008par0116	No one else?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0007par0117	As we are all witnesses, this act of rebellion, which has been attempted to destroy our state, national domination and democracy, has been eliminated in a very short time. Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has called me to thank our nation, who stood in the squares against tanks and armed terrorists dressed in military suits, who have won democracy over the coup by filling the squares in all provinces for a month. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to address some activities in the first year of the 26th century. As it is known, the Great National Assembly of Turkey has suffered major damage due to the July 15 coup attempt on our main building and the Visitor Acception Building. As a result of damage detection studies, around 11 million, 818,000 Turkish liras have been reported to have suffered financial damage. I submit this issue to the discretion of you valued lawmakers and the public, saying that the spiritual damage has been too much to calculate. After the July 15 coup attempt, tireless and fast work continues day and night to remove the damage caused by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. During the bombing of our parliament on July 15th, we personally experienced the fact that there was no shelter for the civilian defense norms of today's Parliament's work. In this case, the need for an earthquake, floods, nuclear attacks, and all sorts of other disasters and attacks, which could be carried out in any case, has become essential. With that respect, I would like to say that it is important that the planning by the administration for a new location where the General Assembly can meet safely in emergency situations should be carried out immediately. I also think it's important to build a museum of democracy in order to make sure that our Parliament never forgets its wounds in the attack against democracy. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as you know, have 18 residency commissions in our Parliament. Our commissions, which are served by valued members of each party, have also carried out a very efficient work in this year of legislation. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a place where the will of the nation is granted and people are seeking a solution. In this framework, we see most of our citizens apply to the petition commission, the Human Rights Review Commission and the Women's Opportunity Equivalence Commission. Dear friends, the rapid development of information and communication technologies, the growing importance of globalisation, democracy and participation, the change in the expectations of lawmakers from the institution, require that the Turkish Grand National Assembly be able to provide more efficient, more efficient, and faster services by making the best of technological opportunities. I consider it important and valuable that the work done in this area be carried out in the same way in 2017. With the planned budget of 2017 in this scope, the working conditions of our valued lawmakers who used the legislative authority will be improved by improving the legislative process and quality. Mr. President, when I end my remarks, I ask that our institutions, especially the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, have the best budget of 2017, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0009par0124	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Haydar Ali Yıldız will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0010par0128	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Court budget on behalf of the AK PARTY Group. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly, the esteemed lawmakers. Our civilization, our faith: One is responsible for what he does, responsible for what he does. The person is also the institution, and all institutions are governed by people. We realize that one day we will be held accountable, that we must fulfill our responsibilities and our duties with the right faith. Our nation, with its thousands of years of tradition, has expressed the need to be cared for in this land, not for words, but for work. And we, with the power from our faith, from our history, from our civilisation, from our faith, from our faith, from our faith, from our faith, from our faith, and from our determination to the AK PARTI, hope that we will continue our journey with this force; we will make sure that our great Turkey ideal, our strong Turkey, will declare our ideal as the new Turkey, and that it will fight to live in this land forever. The world is experiencing some paradigmal changes. No matter what happens in this land, we will continue our journey in the direction of the backboned Recep Tayyip Erdogan, wearing our domestic and national values and values of civilization. There have been many countries in the world that have organized the world, and today there are states that have formed order, that have dominated its own paradigm. But it was Seljuklu and the Ottomans, who based on justice in the world, which originated at its root, established order in the world based on justice. Today, in paradigms and new world order around the world, as their own methods, those who declare that they are rulers are being persecuted, slaughtered, persecuted, slaughtered in Jerusalem, Palestine, today in Syria, in Aleppo, in Arakan, in Aleppo, in Arakan. With hope, all mankind seeks and waits for the peace of the Ottomans, Seljuklu, our civilization has offered to the world. We, the inhabitants of this land, those who bear the values of civilization, believe that the world will restore justice again, peace again, with the system established by the Ottomans, the system established by our civilization, through the administration. Of course we have something to say, we have a claim because we believe that one day we are the people who will build this powerful civilization in this land. We can build a new order, a new paradigm, on the basis of justice-national-state. So, we, who are present in this Parliament, as lawmakers, will be able to build our civilization together with our understanding, construction and care process, with our sweat, with our minds, with our common minds, with the mind of the state. I believe that we all have values to offer, that we can all contribute to this march of civilization, to this holy march. On July 15th, this nation paid the price of an unprecedented democracy in the world, reinventing its struggle to exist on this land for thousands of years, and showed tremendous resistance. And today, on July 15th, they're trying to bring Turkey to its knees with interest and economic instruments, which are a new tool of oppression of the global imperial order, but we're going to continue with this belief, with the mind, consciousness and consciousness that we've encountered from the past, by keeping our national values, national and domestic standing. No one will be able to bring Turkey back from its blessed march. He says, "Hopefully, our civilization will restore order to the world." I salute you with love.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0011par0135	Thank you, Mr. Star. And now on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Ali Özkaya, MP of Afyonkarahisar. Here you go, Mr. Ozkaya.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0012par0139	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group regarding the budget of the Constitutional Court. I salute our High Council and our beloved nation. Since the EC PARTY took office in 2002, reforms have been made to promote human rights standards both in our domestic and international level, and our international obligations have been carefully observed. In the first revolutionary change in this reform movement, international agreements on fundamental rights and freedoms that were added to the 90th Article of the Constitution and entered into force in 2004 have been ruled that international agreements will be given the advantage over the same issue if the law contradicts them. This is a revolutionary decision, and there is no such arrangement even in many European countries. Mr. President, in the process of continuing this reform, the right and the way of individual application was granted to the Constitutional Court under Article 148, on the referendum of the Constitutional Amendment in 2010. With an individual application, if the rights of those guaranteed under the European Convention on Human Rights have been violated by the public force, citizens have been given an individual application path to the Constitutional Court and have begun to function in this serious sense. As a result of this application, the application at the European Court of Human Rights is 2,000-2 per year. He's probably down to 500. In addition, with the establishment of the Human Rights Restitution Commission within the Ministry of Justice and with various reforms, these numbers have been severely reduced, and in 2012 there are around 17,000 files in the European Court of Human Rights, while as of October 2016, the number has been reduced to 7.750. I also want to draw your attention to the decisions made in the Constitutional Court as part of the individual application. In addition to the individual application decision that began on 23 September 2012, there have been over 65,000 individual applications so far, and the Supreme Court has concluded 43,201% of those 65 thousand individual applications, which correspond to about 54 per cent of them, and has decided to combine 22 per cent of them with administrative rejection and 21 per cent of them, and have made decisions of inadmissibility to 54 per cent, only 1.339 individual applications. This is a very important statistical information in terms of how many human rights violations have been reduced in our country in recent years, which corresponds to 3 per cent of the total application. Mr. President, in the process of searching for rights in our internal law, the Constitutional Court of Human Rights referred to these decisions, and the European Court of Human Rights saw the Constitutional Court as an effective and mandatory way of consuming internal law. In particular, in 2016, the PKK rejected individual appeals to anti-terrorism decisions regarding curfews following the terrorist organisation's dig and ditching, due to its lack of internal legal use. In addition, the People's Court of Human Rights has rejected the application of the members of the People's Party on the same grounds and has made a serious reference to our Constitutional Court. During this period, the Supreme Court's individual application decision 2014/256 -- which I personally made as an individual -- is a very historic decision on the removal of one of our friends from the courtroom. With this decision, he saw the headscarf in freedom of religion and conscience in Article 24 of the Constitution and accepted the individual application, saying it cannot be interfered with. With this verdict, the Constitutional Court has taken its rightful place in history. Dear lawmakers, I believe that at the point where individual application to the Constitutional Court has been approved in this five-year period, the number has increased greatly, and we need to evaluate some of the Supreme Court's excessive workload and produce new mechanisms. Because the number of workloads in the eyes of the court has been significantly increased, and I think it would be helpful to make some arrangements. On this occasion, I wish the Constitutional Court's budget would be a blessing.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0013par0150	Thank you, Mr. Ozkaya. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Mahmut Attila Kaya of İzmir will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0014par0154	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group in the section of the Supreme Court budget bill of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act. I hereby salute you with respect and love. Before we begin my words, I remember all of our judicial martyrs, especially Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who was a martyr in the past years of the treacherous terrorist attacks, with respect and mercy. The Supreme Court, which is tasked with overseeing the legality of decisions made by court courts and making the first-degree trial of the cases stated in particular in the laws, is the Supreme Court of Justice, which, depending on the function of this audit, establishes unity in the implementation of law at the country's level and makes the indictments open to the interpretation of the laws. Since its establishment on March 6, 1868, the Supreme Court has served its country with sacrifice, which has been on behalf of the Turkish nation for a hundred and forty-eight years. With that understanding, the Supreme Court's budget bill for 2017 was $382m,750,000, and a 70 per cent increase according to the 2016 budget. 39 per cent of this has been earmarked to personnel costs, 5 per cent to Security Institution, state premium costs, 10 per cent to purchase and service expenses, while the remaining 45.6 per cent have been earmarked as capital expenses. The EC PARTY governments have been a guarantee of rule of law for 14 years. In the period of EC PARTY governments, reforms and radical changes have been signed in the judiciary, just as in other areas. More qualified judicial services have been focused on residency, and right-seeking methods have been increased. A law without judgment can never be considered. The importance of judicial bodies to interpret them as well as the text of the Constitution and the laws is crucial, its function, its function, its functioning, its functioning, its working without problems. To this end, the law was adopted as a historical reform on July 20, 2016. With the start of the litigation courts, the search for rights has been increased, the individual's legal security has been increased, the evidence has been reassessed, the retrial if necessary, and the search for rights related to some cases has been made at a local level and easily determined. In 15 places, there was an administrative adjudication court, and in 8 other places, in the first place, there were seven separate law enforcement courts. When we looked at the past Supreme Court structure, a high court example of 516 members and 46 circles was not present in the world. When surveyed by France and Germany, which resemble the population and legal system of Turkey, 163 members remain in France, 133 in Germany, and 6 in apartments. The reduction of the number of apartments prevented different apartments from looking at the same work and prevented the inconsistencies between the apartments. To this end, the number of members of the Supreme Court with the date of 1 July 2016 and 6723 has been reduced to 310. In the following process, the number of members of the apartments will be reduced from 46 to 24, 516 to 310, and gradually to 200 forwards. Again, 12 years of mandate has been granted to the Supreme Court members as well as to the Supreme Court. Yes, valuable lawmakers were also evaluated and examined in the Supreme Court, as well as those who were the judges of the nation, the nation and the sovereign enemy in Pennsylvania, and 126 members of the Supreme Court, and were then expelled from the profession along with the decision made by the HSYK. I especially want to thank all the judges who have stood by the national will and the nation's electors without hesitation, without fear, pressure, or concern in the early hours of the night of that bloody coup attempt on July 15, 2016, when it is not yet clear whether the coup attempt will be successful. And I wish our budget of 2017 to be a blessing.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0015par0164	Thank you, Mr. Rock. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Congressman Salih Cora will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Cora.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0016par0168	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group over the state's budget. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, first of all, I would like to thank the judicial members of the coup attempt on July 15th, who, without any fear, pressure, or concern, took a stand for the Constitution, the legal state and the national will, who immediately launched investigations against the coupgers and went fearlessly on the coupgers. History will remember them with these great postures. Dear lawmakers, there is no doubt that the basic guarantee of democratic law and human rights is neutral and independent. The independence of the judiciary is vital for justice within its own institutions and rules, far from any influence or direction. The most important task for the protection of the legal state and the expansion of the field of activity falls to the administrative judiciary and to the High Court, which is its supreme court. In accordance with the constitutional principle, the administrative judiciary shall carry out its duties according to its specific laws. In 1868, the Supreme Court was appointed as the Supreme Court, with the Constitution of 1924 and the Constitution of 1961 and 1982. The prosecutor has two important tasks: to conduct an appeal review of decisions sent from administration and tax courts as a high court, and also to look at cases brought against him as a first-degree court. The second important task is to give them an opinion on matters that the authorities have hesitated about. Dear lawmakers, the most important effort of the EC PARTY governments is to ensure that the justice system, which is named after this trust, works well and gives citizens confidence. The measure of the good functioning of a justice system is that justice is done at its proper time, and it is no doubt measured by the delivery of the right to its rightful owner. The main problem of our justice system today, unfortunately, is that trials last longer and cannot be completed in reasonable time. Every process that extends affects not only its sides, but its own directly. In order to resolve these hereditary problems, our government has gone through considerable distances by working in many areas, such as developing qualified human resources, solving technical infrastructure problems, increasing technological resources and restructuring legislation according to new needs. It has allowed the prosecutor and the Supreme Court to operate efficiently by redesigning member numbers. The places where justice services have been conducted have been improved and our country has been restored to modern justice palaces, old-fashioned, underground trials have ended. And indeed, We do not see it to be sufficient, but [it is] a matter [responsible] for [the Muslims] to submit [to Allah]. It is our basic policy to make legal and institutional arrangements that will help the judicial services work quickly, fair, safe and accurately in accordance with the requirements of universal law norms, the rule of law and the rule of law and the rule of law in the field of service in the field of prosecution. In this framework, the development and expansion of alternative conflict solutions to reduce the workload of the judiciary has become a priority. On the other hand, it is one of our priorities to increase the number of judges and qualified administrative personnel, to regulate the ethical principles of our judicial and administrative staff in universal criteria, to improve their awareness, to repair technical infrastructure deficits, to securely activation of administrative judicial services, which have been established in the electronic environment and especially among the judicial bodies. With that thought, I wish the State's budget of 2017 to be good, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0017par0177	Thank you, Mr Cora. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Balıkesir MP Kassim Bostan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Bostan.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0018par0181	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Prime Ministerate in 2017. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. The Prime Ministership is an institution that leads Turkey's transformation and transformation towards becoming a strong country. The prime minister's office aims to bring continued development of all public administrations to the highest level of citizen satisfaction from public services. Its aim is to create a public administration that cares about the peace and trust of its citizens, human rights, democratic and ethical values. Its ultimate goal is to create infrastructure that will enable all institutions and institutions to operate effectively and efficiently in an electronic environment, such as a single public institution. Mr. President, it is among the activities of the Prime Minister to identify the general principles in order to enable control in the public, in order to establish co-ordinating among the public institutions and institutions, to prepare the government's view of law proposals, to establish procedures and fundamentals for drafting legislation. In addition, studies on domestic and external security issues, studies on issues in foreign relations, support of peacekeeping and protection operations, work and operations aimed at monitoring austerity measures. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as a regional and global actor who contributes to world peace, we continue to contribute to efforts towards the establishment of peace in different geographys. Our Armed Forces and our Security Agency have contributed to activities carried out within the United Nations, the European Union, NATO, in order to prevent war and conflict in different parts of the world, in order to restore peace. The costs of these activities will continue to be covered by the Prime Minister's budget. The prime minister's office continued its work on the knowledge of young generations of unique cultural wealth that we have in our national archives. It is imperative that local and foreign public opinion be enlightened by supporting our country's foreign policy thesis with historical documents. To this end, we have contributed to scientific and documentary works, including the Ottoman geography, including the Balkans, Caucasus, the Middle East and Cyprus. The infrastructure of the Prime Ministerial Communication Centre (BIMER) established in 2016 was significantly strengthened in an effort to respond quickly to the requests, complaints, tips and proposals of our citizens for their rights of information. Mr. President, as in the past, the prime minister will continue to provide material and spiritual support for the immediate needs of our citizens, who have been harmed by natural disasters or social events in various parts of our country, other than the normal flow of life, to prevent them from becoming victims. Again, family members and veterans, who are entrusted to us by our beloved martyrs, are at the top of areas where policy development and support should be first served for our government. An important part of the work carried out for these people is the housing policy. In addition to priority housing given to our veterans and fellow martyrs by TOKI, interest costs will continue to be financed by the state within the prime minister's budget. We will continue to take steps to ensure that our citizens' well-being and happiness, democracy, and the rule of law are maintained. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I put an end to my words, I ask that the President's budget of 2017 be a blessing for our state and our beloved nation, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0019par0192	Thank you, Mr. Bostan. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Ali Ercoshkun of Bolu will speak. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0020par0196	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the basis of the Prime Minister's budget, and I hereby salute you. No matter how grateful we are to God, we are conducting the 15th budget talks held in the same period of power since the November 3, 2002 elections. Now, if we could just close our eyes and think about the night of July 15th in the history of civilization, perhaps the biggest betrayal of this nation, what would have happened if this coup attempt had been successful that night, would we be able to conduct these budget negotiations here today, or would every corner of our country be covered in blood and tears? Yes, once again, by the permission of Allah, by the permission of our President, by his courage, by his will, by his leadership, by the firm stand of our Prime Minister, and by the spirit of unity and solidarity that shows our nation to the whole world, of course. There's no way the process after July 15th could be like July 14th anymore. July 15th, July 15th, against tanks, planes, helicopters, we will never forget our veterans who showed their lives for this country without blinking, and this heroicness that our nation has put forth in all of Turkey. From now on, we will continue with all the activities that we will do in this room, in close cooperation and solidarity, with all the activities that we will do in order to pay off our lives to our martyrs, no matter which political party we may be from right now, on the night of July 15th, 20 meters away when the bombs are going off, and I hope that Turkey will be a more advanced country with its power and its opposition and whatever its plans for the July 15th coup attempt to take place in Turkey. The two bridges opened recently are the SECTÜRK 1 satellite that we launched into space yesterday, and the Eurasia Tunnel, which will be inaugurated shortly, are the pride of all members of our country. Mr. President, dear friends, the Prime Minister's headquarters currently operate in nine different buildings in three cities - Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir -- a total of 2,302 staff members, as of October 2016. According to 2016, an increase of about 22.32 per cent was introduced in 2017. The activities carried out by the General Directorate of Laws and Decisions have, on the other hand, revealed a total of 353 publications as an official newspaper broadcast. A total of 26 million, 790,560 documents have been transferred to digital media, especially in the republic's archives, as well as by the State Archives General Directorate. A total of 1,359,950 applications to BIMER are organised by the Prime Ministerate again. Dear friends, it has never been easy in history to take a noble stand, to hold the fire of truth in your heart. Persistence requires patience, determination requires endurance, but we know one thing that endures has triumphed. So far, as Prime Minister, I want to express my gratitude to our Prime Minister, Mr. Burili Yıldırım and all the Prime Minister's staff who co-ordinated all the ministries, worked hard day and night to resolve the problems without leaving them to the grandchildren, and who conquered the hearts of our nation through their warm communication. I wish for superior success in New Turkey's 2023, 2053, 2071 vision and goals. I hereby wish our 2017 budget to be good for our country, our nation and new Turkey, and I salute you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0021par0209	Thank you, Mr. Ercoshkun. Mr. İsmail Aydın will now speak on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0022par0213	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the budget of the Public Control Agency and its precise accounts. I salute our beloved nation and the High Council. It's an institution that exists in our culture that's not foreign to us at all, ombudsmanism. In the early 1,700s, when King Sharl of Sweden was a guest in the Ottoman Empire, he was inspired by the Ottoman judicial system and carried to his country as an ombudsman. In particular, after 1950, it began to spread rapidly across the world and is now an institution that exists in more than 140 countries, but was able to come to our country in 2012. Every man is a state, a state for a man. Fifteen years ago, when we went on this blessed path, we set it as one of our principles. We argued that the kingdom should belong only to the nation, and we fought against it against all the responsibilities of custody. It was built only in 2012. I said, "It was not easy to establish the Public Control Agency." The Public Control Agency Act, which we passed in 2016, was vetoed by the President of the period, and then cancelled by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the establishment of ombudsmanship was six years late. Despite this delay, the number of applications received by the institution has increased considerably over the past two years. The number of complaints filed between January 1st and October 31st 2016 is 4.529. 64 per cent of the applications were made through the e- application system on the website. As of 2015, the 4,529 application files, along with 977 files, have been completed on October 31st. The European Union progress reports also praised the institution's development and implementation of recommendations. Ombudsmanship is an independent institution that serves as a bridge between individual and state. He has been chosen by our beloved Council, which reflects the will of our sovereign nation. Unlike one of our institutions of human rights and transparency, ombudsmanism, which is one of our institutions, is not only the administrative judiciary, but it is the decision of rights, human rights and the principles of good governance, and it is the recommendation of management. These recommendations are made to offer public information and to be reported in parliament and to make it more public, and other institutions to act in accordance with law and justice as well. It is also very easy to apply again, unlike the administrative judiciary, and the decision-making period is very short. Applications are concluded within six months, max. Of course, there may be some flaws in the functioning of the institution. For example, the institution can act without complaint about human rights, basic rights and freedoms, women and children, disabled, elderly rights, public interest, so that the rights and freedoms of the individual against government can be maintained. Although it is a young institution, it has made important decisions regarding social events in our country, women, children, disability rights. On the subject of disguises, the recommendations made by trade groups who were thought to be victims of travel events have been made to the public's broad knowledge. Dear MPs, especially Nihat Omaroglu, the founder-in-chief, and I believe that he is a good lawyer, who began his post yesterday, honor Malkoc Bey, who I believe is a good civil society promoter, will contribute to the decisions of the institution, especially a lot of the law. Dear friends, especially during the AK PARTI rulings, have been rapidly developed during the AK PARTI rulings, with zero tolerance for torture by the Human Rights Commission, the Human Rights Commission, the Human Rights Agency and the Human Rights Institution.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0023par0223	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0022par0224	On this occasion, the decisions made by the Human Rights Association and especially the ombudsman's institution have really contributed to Turkey's law. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0023par0227	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Kavalıoğlu.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0024par0231	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2017 budget of the National Intelligence Agency's Undersecretary. I salute you all. We're going through a process where global and regional developments are rapidly evolving. The global balance of power based on economic competition, the wars of power, the nation's state; the achievement of non-national actors, the development of technology and the widespread use of social media, and today the international system between nation states is very dynamic, based on the balance of power. This dynamic has complicated countries' risks and threats by diversifying them. The domestic and external threats to Turkey are also increasing day after day, with asymmetrical threats, such as sensory operations and cyber attacks. Organizations such as PKK, DEAŞ, DHKP-C, have accelerated their activities and actions, aimed at the stability, independence and integrity of our country, serving the interests of countries that are hostile and rival to Turkey. Therefore, terrorism is a priority in our country's perception of threats. Terrorist organisations are taking advantage of the lack of authority due to conflicts in Syria and Iraq. Global forces also use these organisations as subcontractors to shape the regional map. This complicates domestic and external threats against our country. As a result, these rapidly evolving developments bring new threats to the size of terrorism, as well as political, economic, social, cultural impacts, such as energy security, migration movements. Dear lawmakers, the importance of intelligence is increasing day by day when our country faces serious challenges. Because intelligence has the critical importance of implementing the right national strategies. Governments that use intelligence mechanisms effectively have the upper hand among their peers. In this context, our National Intelligence Agency is also working within the framework of the law against increasing and diversifying threats to our country's internal and external security; security intelligence is operating in the areas of countering strategic intelligence, technical intelligence and intelligence; it contributes to our government's follow-up strategies. He is also obliged to carry out other tasks set out by the Council of Ministers and the National Security Council. In this regard, he performs important tasks given to him in Syria and Iraq. The internal and international activities of the MIT Undersecretary on the basis of human and technical intelligence are increasingly important. The decryption of the code of the organization's organization's secret communication systems, providing the decryption of members of the organisation, is a concrete example of the importance of investments made by the MIT Undersecretary in the field of technical intelligence. In the context of technical and human intelligence, the immediate assistance of the MIT Undersecretary to operations carried out by our security forces is critical in terms of the fight against terrorism that our government is determined to carry out. Dear lawmakers, it is imperative that the Undersecretary of the MIT has the ability and the capacity to react faster to regional and global developments, in the context of our national security and interests, to adapt to the needs of the age. As a matter of fact, investments in the field of intelligence will also prevent the cost-effective expenditures our country will have to make in the field of security. I have complete faith that the MIT Undersecretary's ability to carry out the intelligence services our state needs, is the will of all our MPs, without the distinction of power and opposition. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with respect to the well-being of the 2017 budget, the welfare of our state and our nation, in my brief view of the importance of the mission and responsibilities of the National Intelligence Agency for the sake of our country.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0025par0242	Thank you. Congressmans, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Manisa MP Murat Baybatur will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Baybatur.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0026par0246	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the budget proposal of the National Security Board's General Secretaryship for 2017. I salute you all. The General Secretariat of the National Security Council, one of the constitutional institutions in which we discussed the 2017 budget proposal, had the power to influence, determine, and supervise the policies that governments would follow, under Article 111, of the 1961 Constitution. The National Security Council meetings were mainly reflected by the military's will. The secretary and members of the board were heavily made up of soldiers. Members of the board would have to comply with the board's decisions to avoid taking the army against them. Thus, the military has always been effective in the general order and functioning of the state through the National Security Council. During the coup period of the National Security Council, especially during the February 28th postmodern coup, it is an indication of the distance of democracy, rather than being a logistical body, when the AK PARTI government changed its position on 7 August 2003. The Secretary-General of the National Security Council has uncovered the obligation to develop and change institutional structure organisation, as it is needed in accordance with measures that directly concern the welfare of the state and individuals, which should be taken against threats. Mr. President, the National Security Council is an organ that performs its duties under the command of the law, in accordance with the goals set by the board, following the national, regional and international security ground in the field of duty, doing research, reviewing, analysis and assessments of the national security concept of our country, and one of our important institutions in many areas, who performs tasks in terms of mobilisation, state of war and crisis management, as well as serving on a broad range of public contributions. In this framework, providing national security makes it necessary for our nation to work within the co-authority of all organs of the state to ensure national security, which is crucial to the survival of our country's sovereign state. The importance of the institution's important work and its failure to function and to adapt properly to the needs of our time, the definition and scope of national security in today's conditions is increasing by varying every day. The clear example of this is the providing of national security in the field of IT, as well as the area of national security is increasing rapidly every day. At this point, it is a great and important step for our democracy that the National Security Council and the Secretary General, who have absorbed democracy, have achieved a government that opposes the coups, not the ones that shed light on the coups. A National Security Council and Secretariat standing in opposition to the coup attempt by the terrorist and espionage organization on the night of July 15th is also known to our delegation that there is a constitutional body under the command of our President and Government. As it is known, our country is going through extraordinary processes. In this process, every institution of our government must make serious contributions. Since its establishment, the Secretary General of the National Security Council, which is based on the need for national security, I salute the knowledge and assessment of your grand delegation, which has been set up in 2016 to increase the budget allowance, which has been set to further increase its serious contributions to the public, as usual, to the higher levels.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0027par0254	Thank you. Mr. Muhammad Emin Akbasoglu will now speak for the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0028par0258	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group regarding the budget of our President of the Religious Affairs in 2017. On this occasion, I salute you all. As it is known, the Ministry of Religious Affairs is a public institution organized in and outside the homes of the Prime Minister to carry out affairs related to the beliefs of Islamic religion, worship and morality, to enlighten the community in matters of religion, and to run places of worship. Dear lawmakers, as our ancestors fought for the first will, as those who oppressed the foundation of the religion/Eternal Homeland were victorious over those who cried out for a historic victory, and on the night of July 15th, our second struggle, the leaders of the Diyanet community, and their hearts were raised and our hearts were victorious against those who wanted to wipe out our religion and state, our country and our nation from history. In both the night of the coup and occupation attempt and the following process, I would like to express my thanks again from this stand to our religious community, our saints, our martyrs, our heroic veterans, and our noble nation, especially our President of Religious Affairs, who has been preaching the truth to the world with the State of Eurasia and the State of the Eurasian Islamic Order. Honourable MPs, who have been sent as mercy to the worlds and have the most beautiful examples for all mankind, are the words of the Lord (AS), the counsel, the sincerity of religion, the religion of peace upon the name of Islam; the creator of man and his peace with the environment and with the happiness of the whole universe. The mention of Islam, the only true religion in God's sight, side by side with terrorism is a religious and political engineering project of international evil centers. The goal is to atomicize the Islamic world in every way and thus break it apart and stop being an alternative to a new world. This ancient project, after the Cold War period, could not live by Margaret Thatcher in the 1990s, without hostile ideology, after which our new enemy was Islam. It was declared and then Operation First Gulf. On September 11, 2001, the West announced the paradigm change from Henry Kissinger's mouth to Islam, not between the West and Islam. If communism is needed in Turkey at the time, we will bring it. The international version of the approach that says, "If there is an Islamic religion and a Muslim type in the world, we will determine it. The religious - looking fake structures that would oil the exploitation and slave order of the West were created to replace its owner. This is the product of moderate and radical versions of organizations such as Å and DAEŞ, which are guided by Western projects for these purposes and goals. These structures are tool puppets of the whole human perception operation. Members of parliament, Islam is the religion of absorption, and revelation is the religion of Muslims. The deviant structures that seek the approval of international power centers that seek to create peace between God and His Messenger by breaking apart Muhammad's Word. They are allied to only and only to harm Islam and Muslims. What's to be done in this painting? You are the best nation ever brought forth for the good of mankind. You enjoin good and forbid evil, and you believe in God. He commands all men to work together in the life of this world and in the Hereafter. For this reason, Muslims must give the order of justice and mercy to all mankind, to carry out organizations that will consolidate their unity, brotherhood and solidarity. Knowing this historic and conscientious responsibility, our Ministry of Religious Affairs must launch the campaign of human life and survival, in accordance with its original sense of Islam based on the Koran and circumcision, the main sources of our religion. He says it's time to put on our responsibilities, wish the budget well and prosper, and pay my respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0029par0270	Thank you, Mr. Akbasoglu. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Elazig MP Metin Bulut will speak. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0030par0274	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the budget of the High Council of Radio and Television. I salute the High Council and our beloved nation. The Supreme Board of Radio and Television was established in Turkey with Law 3984, which took effect in 1994 to organise and supervise radio and television activities. The Radio and Television Oversight Board has administrative and financial autonomy, and its mandates in the legislation are independent and uses them under its own responsibility. The upper council also provides a healthy growth of the sector, which it is obliged to organise and oversee, and maintains the rights of publishers in the sector for this purpose. The Oversight's income pencils are as follows: Publishing license fees, television channels, annual multiplex capacity and frequency use fees, broadcast authorization fees from the infrastructure operators and the donor facility and operating company, media service providers' monthly share of gross commercial communication revenues. In contrast, the income surplus from the upper council revenues will be transferred to the general budget every three months until the 15th of the following month. In addition, 15 per cent of the advertising revenues received by the Supreme Council each month are transferred to the Social Aid and Solidarity Development Fund. A total of 1,714 radios and televisions operate in our country in satellite, cable and terrestrial environments. This is considered a sign of pluralism and freedom of expression. In order to reduce the financial burden taken by radio and television companies, which have a vital function in the use of freedom of expression and information, the upper legislature, dated 20/8/2016, was reduced to 1.5 per cent from the 3 per cent of advertising revenues of radio and television companies. In 2015, 3 per cent of radio and television companies' gross commercial telecommunications revenues were paid at 94,400,928 Turkish liras, while 89,32,942 euros were covered by television companies and 5 million 67,987 euros were covered by radio companies. Under the amendment with Law No. 6745, the High Council's share of radio and television companies in 2017 is expected to be $50,500,000, and the remaining 4 million Turkish liras are expected to be met by radio companies. Therefore, a reduction in radio and television companies' revenues from the Radio and Television Oversight was expected to decrease by about 40 per cent of the previous year's budget due to a reduction in the support of radio and television companies. I would also like to point out the importance of the Supreme Council's fight against non-license, unauthorized, infringemental property rights, public health-threatening, selling and selling products that are banned from supplying and selling products. The Supreme Council also supports and supports the rights of institutions that mislead society, threaten its national and spiritual values, sell and displayable products and services, encourage gambling, encourage it to stop the transmission of unauthorized and illegal publications, and make it legal and legal, and upholding its rights. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the 2017 budget to be a blessing.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0031par0285	Thank you. İstanbul MP Hasan Turan will speak on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0032par0289	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of Prime Ministerial Press and Information General Directorate. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Congressmans, we live in a changing world. But it's not much, it's a very different way of life than it was 15 or 20 years ago. Perhaps the first word in the description of today's world is media and press release. Today, politics has become a framework of bilateral dialogue, one way or another, as a communication process, without public opinion, without the concept of governance, and without the media, it is difficult to define politics and public opinion. In such a picture, making the media field as effective and powerful as possible is the key to not only being in the country but also in international platforms. At this point, as a government, a legislation that allows the voice of all arguments of power and opposition has been introduced and implemented within the framework of the EU integration process. Again, all investments of the age continue to be carried out from its satellite to all kinds of technological infrastructure. Our nation knows how we once evolved from Turkey's single style of life to a very vocal society, with policies that we actually took into practice, to a very vocal society, and how we orchestrate crimes committed through the media and punishments for them, even though media freedom of opinion does not apply. For example, because of the famous elements of TCK, there are days far behind when a whole nation has experienced pressure and censorship, how our brothers in the southeast are guilty of speaking their own language, let alone freedom of opinion, when they can't even name their own children, but unfortunately, now there is a part of them who deny all that. With the Western world saying that there is no freedom of the press and democracy in Turkey, journalists are imprisoned, the minds of the harvest in our country are repeating the same things. This group continues to close its eyes to the positive developments in our country, as it illustrates the Western democracy with its monotheistic and memorizing approaches, but, for the first time, with the AK PARTI power, the remains of the coup regimes have been wiped clean, replaced by the national will, and the freedoms have been expanded, and the perpetrators have been mixed in the mystery, torture, mafia, history's dusty leaves. For the first time, Turkish media have really, pluralistic and democratic. I want to make this very clear: No one in the AK PARTI administration in Turkey has been arrested or taken into custody for doing pure journalism. Master Cemil Meric, as he called it, does not shed light on the traitor of the country. ▪ It does not give anyone the freedom to commit crimes such as being referred to as a journalist, committing terrorism or spreading state secrets. Let's ask ourselves: is there unlimited freedom of press in Western democracies; do journalists, media workers have unlimited freedom? As Britain, France, Germany, Sweden, the United States and many other countries have imposed law-level restrictions on the media in order to ensure its independence and security, media members are challenged in various ways by the police when they go outside the law, and their professional material is seized and taken into custody. So, did you see the Western parliamentarians or the journalists, who were sleeping in our flag, who buttoned up their collar in front of our heads of state and complained about their country? Well, then, shouldn't we imitate Europe and the United States? As a result, those who find their country uninhabitable are actually the ones who make their country uninhabitable. However, no matter what anyone does, don't stop us. We will continue to work like ants to leave giant artifacts for our nation and our country. On this occasion, I wish you the best of our budget in 2017, and salute our great Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0033par0298	Thank you, Mr. Turan. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the final speaker will be Adana MP Tamer Mountainlı. Here you go, Mr. Mountainer.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0034par0302	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group regarding the budget for the Undersecretary of Treasury in 2017. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. Despite expanding monetary policies in developed countries, strong, balanced and sustainable growth has not been achieved in the world economy. Growth rates are found at the lowest level in the post-spherical crisis period, while they are well below pre-crisis rates. At the time of such a negative picture of the global economy, Turkey's economy grew by 3.9 per cent in the first half of 2016. The traitorous invasion attempt on July 15th was a bit of a slowdown in growth due to negative developments in the tourism sector and the poor course of agriculture. The economy, which is expected to recover some in the last quarter, is expected to grow at 3.2 in the entire year 2016. In 2017, we predict growth will accelerate to 4.4 percent, thanks to the reanimation of our trade partners' economies, reviving the tourism sector and implementing structural reforms. In the coming period, improvements in foreign currency movement, food prices and commodity prices, particularly oil, will be decisive on inflation. The number of inflation in November 2016 was reduced to 7 per cent. Dear lawmakers, our exports have been reduced by 2.8 per cent in January-October in 2016, due to the poor course of global demand and low price of commodity and at $117.1 billion compared to the same period of the previous year. We expect exports to occur at 143.1 billion dollars in 2016. In January-October 2016, imports were reduced by 5.8 per cent to 163.3 billion dollars, especially in the low course of global commodity prices, including energy. We estimate total imports in 2016 will be at 198 billion dollars. The 2016 foreign trade deficit is expected to decline to $54.9 billion. One of the areas where policy practices of the Treasury Undersecretary are effective is debt management. In the last 14 years, the debt stock has been reduced by about 40 points, while the stable policies have allowed permanent improvements in the supply of debt, interest and foreign currency composition. Turkey has achieved a strong structure that effectively manages middle and long-term debt management. The average period of internal debt was nine months when we came to power, and today it reached sixty-eight months. At that time, the fixed-received debt costs at 62.7% were at 10.1 per cent at the point of arrival in 2016. Again, at that time, 58 per cent of the central management debt stock was in exchange for foreign currency, while it is now down to 35.9 per cent. 55% of our debt stock is made up of variable interest bonds, while this rate is now reduced to 30.9%. The Treasury Undersecretary effectively contributes to the implementation of reforms launched on promoting financial education that contributes to increasing domestic savings, supporting RD activities in financial markets, developing alternative financing methods that will facilitate the access of SME and entrepreneurs to financing. The Treasury Undersecretary, a major contribution to strengthening our country's economic fundamentals, will always play a leading role in achieving our country's competitive economy, strong financial sector, sound public finance and effective role goals in the international system. I wish that the budget of the 2017 budget, including the Treasury Undersecretary, would be a blessing for all units, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0035par0311	Thank you. We will now move on to the group talks of the People's Democratic Party, except Mr. Demirel. Here, just a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0036par0316	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we listened to all the MPs who spoke on behalf of the groups here yesterday, and we faced censorship only when our MP spoke on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group was on the stand. This censorship was a censorship of the photos of our co-chairs, our group's vice president and our fellow congressmen, and the screen was normally shown as a full screen, while yesterday the screen became half-screened, and the photos were censored. You know as well as I do that our kidnapped co-chairs and deputies are members of this Parliament, and so on. When I asked Mr. Speaker about this yesterday, he said he had no information.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0035par0319	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0036par0320	So, I'd like to ask you and the Presidential Court again: who was it that applied this censorship, who made the decision? Who is in charge of censoring our parliamentary TV party, the photos of our MPs, our co-chairs, and who is in charge of it? I'd like to ask the General Assembly to release this information. If the Speaker didn't issue this censorship situation, then a bureaucrat did it on his own? We want these answered. We never accept such censorship from Parliament TV, which can't tolerate the photos of our party and co-chairs, and I demand that it be revealed by whom it is decided and implemented. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0035par0322	Thank you. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Executive Account for 2015 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2015 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2017 2) Prime Ministership Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The President of the Religious Works' Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) The Head of Religious Affairs 2015 Central Management Terminate Account RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasure 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account İstanbul MP Celal Doğan will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Dogan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 25 minutes. Mr. Dogan, please, we'd like to see you on the stand. Mr. Demirel, please... There is a decision made by the members of the group and the members of parliament to prevent another vehicle from being brought to the bench, Mr. Doğan, and I ask you to obey it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0037par0379	Okay, I'll show you. Fine.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0038par0380	Mr. President, this is...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0039par0381	That's the way it's supposed to be.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0040par0382	You already have enough pictures of your own group, your MPs, your presidents, your co-chairs, but I also advise you not to put them on the stand. There's a decision in that direction, there's a principle, so let's not violate it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0041par0383	That's not a decision.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0042par0384	Mr. President, there is no such decision.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0040par0385	I do.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0042par0386	There's no decision not to show photos on the stand. On the way to the stand, there's a decision not to come in with different objects, clothing, or anything, but a photo decision...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0040par0387	There's no such description, the way you say it...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0042par0388	That's not a decision, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0040par0389	Mr. Demirel, there is no decision described in the way you say it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0042par0390	That's not a decision. So far, we've been on the stand...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0040par0391	It's just that we have a principle that we don't bring anything to the stand except the speech text.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0043par0392	Mr. President, it's part of the speech.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0042par0393	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0040par0394	Please, I beg you to comply. Then, let's not complain about a censorship incident when the rules are not followed.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0044par0395	Has the Civil Code changed?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0042par0396	Mr. President, have you made a new decision about this or has the Civil Code changed? That's what we want to know.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0040par0397	I'll let you know, I'll let you know. I've got... Mr. Dogan, please begin your speech.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0045par0399	Let me begin, sir, yes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0046par0400	There's no obstacle to showing the photos, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0040par0401	Mr. Ironel, look, you're talking, and I'm talking. I'll show you the decision made. Mr. Dogan, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0046par0403	I demand that the time be restarted.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0040par0404	Let me be the judge of that. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0047par0406	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've come to express our thoughts on the presidential budget on behalf of my group. I salute the High Council. It's Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. In particular, we're talking about a person who's been talked about most recently in his dialogue with world leaders, in the language he uses in politics, in his self-absorbed hard work and in his political exchanges amongst the pacts. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, especially since he's been exposed on July 15th, our country has been subjected to a coup that has been inflicted by democracy, I wish him and his family the best of all. That's why I say it's a chance for the country to end up like this on a night when the country is on the brink of disaster, and I don't want to imagine the outcome of the revolution in case it happens. Therefore, I have made a commitment to the budget of a very critical person, or rather a different person. We're discussing the budget of the 12th President of the Republic of Turkey. The first President of the Republic of Turkey Mustafa Kemal Pasha. If I talk about its properties, or rather, if I were to sum it up in a sentence, I would be voicing the presidential office of a person who's been passed from fortune to public will. A republic's founder, or rather, if we go further, is more important to the world's leaders than Churchill's sentence: a genius comes to the world once a hundred years, and he comes to me. We're talking about a person he says, with mercy. Ismet Pasha is one of the presidents. When we ask our citizens, who is the first prime minister in Turkey? If you say "Ismet Pasha," they won't say "Ismet Pasha" but Ismet Pasha is both president and prime minister. He's a very serious man of state and a military diplomat. For what I'm saying, the words I'm going to say to establish our president's relationship... are mostly because I have to mention the presidents that were in the military era of Turkey. After Mr. Mustafa Kemal and Ismet Pasha, he took over Turkey. He is a man who fought seriously in the Battle of Salvation, under this understanding, in the clothes of zeybek and ephemerals in the Aegean, in the name of Galip Hoxha. Next is Cemal Gürsel. I'd like to open a separate parentheses to him because he's a president who overcomes national will, or, in fact, is able to cut and end national will. I'd also like to focus on him specifically, as he has a president who should be evaluated in terms of law, as well as in terms of today's law. Cemal Gürsel stopped the national will, came with a revolution, did not stop there; Menderes, the Prime Minister of the state, Foreign Minister and Finance Minister, was hanged during his period. In Turkey today, we are meeting in this parliament without the people that the national will has led us here in this environment, where we face a censorship that cannot even tolerate the images of the leaders of the People's Democratic Party. It does not change the content of the phrases: they are freed, deprived of their freedom. Regardless of the legal basis, the fact that lawmakers were not in prison even if they were convicted in Article 83 of the Constitutional Court, despite the fact that parliamentary activities continue, our friends are not here today. I would like to remind you from here that a sentence of Basol, the head of the will that hanged Menderes, Hasan Polatkan, and Fatin Rügütü, is calibicism and has passed down to court history. Our criminal history is a criminal record, and he's still a criminal. When he served the sentence of execution, the word is history, and it's been fifty-five years, and that stain will continue for another fifty-five years. This is exactly what the will that sent you here wanted. When our friends here yesterday expressed that the arrest of our MPs was not right, our esteemed Parliament Speaker and most of the other politicians and members of political power have always said that by emphasising judicial independence, it is not our job. There is a separation of forces in Turkey, you are facing a savings of the judiciary, so there is nothing to do. They have taken refuge in their understanding. I am not one of those who long for this stain on the President, or rather in the future, as long as it's been fifty-five years since our past record of justice remains a forensic stain. Therefore, as soon as this grave error is corrected, I do not refer to the president as an intervention in the courthouse, but to instruct the judge. Therefore, it is possible that despite the consequences of the conjunctivation brought by our political community, our lawmakers and mayors are in prison, that this will be corrected by political statements made by those who govern the state, and will be able to improve by climate. Therefore, especially on this one, I would like to say that I believe in the desire of our President and our staff not to bear this political stain. Another thing, you and our country faced the coup on July 15th. All groups of Parliament, who dealt with the coup, have expressed their sincere attitude, but his first discrimination over the spirit of July 15th and its continuation has been the effort to bypass the People's Democratic Party and keep them out of it. Amenna and Saddakna, you can do it, it's your savings, but I want to remind you specifically of December 17th and 25th. I'm not a politician who's going to be above the speculations of the 17th and 25th Decembers, their beavers, their money. I don't mean it in the sense that I despise it. Especially on December 25th, none of the defendants were taken from their homes, went to the courthouse's door with subpoenas courtesy of the republic's prosecutors, where their statements were taken, where the case ended in non-trace. Now, the defendants on December 17th and 25th were not allowed to stand trial with your votes. They didn't go to court, and I'll tell the government's officials -- I'll tell you soon -- they challenged the court, and you brought your own people to the point of clearing them without putting them before the judge. And the reason was that you made it clear everywhere that these were judges, prosecutors, and prosecutors, that they were a coup plot against you, that they were designed and that they were shares. Have you ever wondered how many of the judges and prosecutors of the People's Democratic Party are currently in prison, presenting the proceedings of lawmakers and mayors? In bringing a matter of yours to the courthouse, you've always accepted it as a superstition, but it didn't bother you at all that it was those who saved on people of the People's Democratic Party. It's a double standard, it's not right because we all need law, and we all need law. Today we may need the law the most, but tomorrow -- God willing, it won't happen to any of you -- you may all need the law. We know that our President has an attitude, not to rule the state, but to hold it in the palm of his hand, especially in all matters. One of them is foreign policy. When foreign policy day comes, it will be discussed, our spokesman friends will say what's necessary, but I'd like to sum it up in a few sentences. There has been a stable foreign policy in Turkey for years, and you've accepted it as passive policy, so you've come out in the world claiming that you will design the region with an active foreign policy, ignoring the sulh password at home. The formulated sentences were: "No problems with neighbors, or non-progressive neighbourhood. When you began to approach the land's deed, not to open the discussion, but to make Greece, our last neighbor, an enemy. Two: While our esteemed Prime Minister wants to shape the Middle East by talking about the strategic depth, we see together that we are struggling through the strategic swamp. Not from your point of view, but from the country's point of view, we're obviously dealing with a very important issue that we must address. Therefore, we certainly agree that your mistakes in foreign policy are not just the problem of a political power, but the problem of all of us, all of our people, all of our country, all of us. Therefore, Middle Eastern policy is fundamentally wrong. There's no time, I just need half an hour to tell you what Ecevit and Demirel have been thinking about Mosul, but that's not possible. In the 1916s, especially in the 1918s, we set the struggle of Musul Kemal, who said that Musul was a traitor in the 1918s, trying to stir Musul (Musul) up the danger to the country from the Middle East, without explaining to the community how dangerous it would be for the country, we're trying to look for Turkey in the deserts today, where an ancient people, five hundred years old people, a handful of Kurds, will be citizens there, and a struggle to defend their rights, as a equivalent to the terrorist organization, and where we shouldn't get into any trouble. The President was gracious, and I visited him after June 8th; there was a multi-level meeting. He was kind, I went, and if he did, I'd go again, because I don't have complexes like that, and I'm not that busy with that at the palace. I will not go to Sara. Today they have made it a neighboring door. That's why, even today, I'll go. The meeting went exactly like this: I said that Turkey should never and should not enter the Syrian-related issue. Because there was no gravel thrown from there to Turkey. He is an extension of the people, and the Kurdish people in Turkey are not a people who have betrayed the country, including the Battle of Istliklal, and the Battle of Cyprus. I think I heard something there. I don't understand. I'm clearly standing behind that gravel didn't come. Sir, PKK-PYD co-operation, that's something else. But without pebbles from the Syrian people, or rather from the Syrian Kurds, brought to Turkey, we considered their rights to be a kind of future threat to the country. It's not all public claims, I think it's a hoax. The reason is that the Kurdish problem in Turkey, Mr. President, was a hundred-year-old problem, a stone in his heart, drinking blood and talking about it as a cranberry sherbet. There's a Diyarbakır speech, and I recommend to all politicians, how do people be embraced? There's been a lot of people around here who've been talking about a friend of ours. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan speaking in the Justice and Development Party Group has highlighted Mustafa Kemal's statement in the parliamentary speech. Therefore, it's a Kurdistan, it's the name of a geography. I miss my President, who called the Diyarbakır speech, or rather did, and he misses the President coming back to that point because he says there's an old woman named Selvi: she hasn't been a martyr here in three years. Now, since December 1st, or rather after June 8th, is there any happiness in the blood of the soldiers, the blood of the police, the blood of our murdered young children? Therefore, it is a heartfelt desire for our President to return to those days. Another thing: there's been a matter of presidential system being discussed here for days, or months, or rather -- that's been happening to people. We are now tired of listening to talks that are being speculated on television from morning to evening by the president's person, without knowing what it really is or what its contents are. If you're gonna bring it, bring it. Of course, the presidency is a regime within democracy. The half presidency, the parliamentary system, is in a democratic regime, but it depends on what you put in it. If you're really... now I see you've changed the name of the presidential system to your new companion and the presidency. What you're going to put in it will describe the regime. We're not satisfied that his name is the presidency, that he's the prime minister, that there's balances in there, so if there's a hôd-be-hôd separation of forces, I'm asking you clearly and clearly. One, in Turkey's parliamentary election, whether you call it a narrowed area or call it a district, no matter what you call it, will the president have initiative in the MP's election? Two, can this great Parliament contribute to the selection of the judiciary, which is highly qualified in order to ensure and maintain independence of the judiciary? More than that, will the president be able to absorb the understanding of being president of all the peoples in Turkey? Bring a system of these qualities, we'll discuss them; we'll like them, we won't like them; we'll vote, we won't vote; it's a separate issue, but we're talking in the dark. Since the Constitution of 1876, we have brought the Parliamentary democratic regime to this day in our country, with its lacks and setbacks, but when it was September 12, 1980, we had cancer of parliamentary democracy. Now, the parliamentary democratic regime, the AK PARTY, if this continues, with the help of the National Movement Party, we've come to the point where we're going to read into your soul, and we're going to remove it. So why did this happen? If you say, really, I mean all the political leaders after September 12th, they saw the mebus as officers, they didn't see them as representatives of the people, and they didn't choose these MPs with that understanding. That's the first thing, the first actor of the parliamentary democratic regime, is to have a electoral system where the driver is elected by the people in full. We couldn't get this. The dam is a margin that can be corrected, but you'll choose the MP, you'll appoint the judge, and you'll rule the country, and you'll call it "democracy" by having power over all these institutions. That's not me, even crows laugh. I'd like to come from here and tell you what I was going to say on the way to the Prime Minister's Department, but I'll tell you now. On behalf of myself and my city, I owe a debt of gratitude to all prime ministers who have begun from Mr. Ozal, who have finally found Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan in my 15 years of living mayoral office of the Republic of Turkey. And while I'm not the prime minister, I have continued to respect Mr. President of the National Movement Party, and I have expressed my gratitude for his interest in Gaziantep as Deputy Prime Minister. But now I would like to ask the question: on July 15th, the country was a quiet country on the presidential issue, or rather, a little bit, forgotten, but it was postponed. One day, Mr. State Gardener said: "We have to fix this actual situation. " But they spoke of some dangers when we should be correcting this actual situation. He used these words, sentences, pointing to the future dangers of the regime. I don't believe that Mr. Gardeny would be afraid of anyone and enter into a secret, but I just don't believe that Mr. Gardeny would be enough to embrace this matter. Did he really take this path because he saw the country's regime threatened by another junta or a custody regime in the future? If he pleases us with this, if he gives the House enough information on this, I have no objection whatsoever, I respect that. Perhaps in Turkey they also -- such small matters have been cleaned up for themselves -- and this has been done, and I'm not saying this based on something they believe in -- but there's a public side, there's another issue -- but that reason clearly doesn't satisfy me. Another thing, Mr. President, especially when stressing it -- Mr. Prime Minister is using it from time to time -- is trying to create a perception in Turkey as a reason that we should obey the law, obey the law, that our fellow MPs should not go to the courthouse, that they should be forced to be taken away. We're all lawyers here, or rather, we're all people who know the law. The accused has the right to lie, he has the right not to testify, he has the right not to go to court, but the state comes in here, and he says, "Sister, I called you, you didn't come." I'm bringing you in now. lt depends on his kindness, understanding, the way he looks at man. Do you want to break the door down at night and pick it up at 3:00 a.m., or wait in the morning and pick it up at the door at 9:00 a.m., at 10:00 a.m., and bring it to the courthouse? The day he brings it to the courthouse door, the law begins there. His absence can't be blamed on society as a reason for the arrest. No of our friends' reasons, or rather the grounds of arrest, were forced into custody. It doesn't say in the arrest. Therefore, the fact that you did not go to the country means nothing more than deceiving the public. We also saw how people who went with their feet were arrested, especially in the treatment of mayors. Dear members of the General Assembly, with these words about the presidency -- there is much to be said, but I want to finish: I want to see our President -- as President in his first speech in Diyarbakır. Two: Between 2004 and 2007, we lived together to see how well received it was when it went to European countries, how high it was that it had seen in European countries. We are not interested in the European club. We are not interested in the European name. The European values that call us are Copenhagen and Maastricht Criters. Will Turkey ever find these Maastricht Criters? Will Turkey ever find the Copenhagen Criters? The Ankara criteria you added to the back... Yesterday and the day before, when I was giving awards to Kayseri businessmen, Mr. President said to a citizen, or rather to the owner of an AVM, "Why are you renting it with dollars?" And he said, "Yes, you do." He turned it into Turkish money; very good, very good. But his last sentence is interesting. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He sent the message to others: "The governor is here, the mayor is here. " If that is the Ankara criteria, no one will be able to tolerate it. So...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0048par0434	Mr. Dogan, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0047par0435	Can I finish with one sentence? Would you excuse me, sir?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0048par0436	Sir, I haven't given anyone an extra minute, so I'm waiting for your understanding.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0047par0437	And I beg your understanding.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0049par0438	He's going on the record, Mr. Celal.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0048par0439	You talked for 25 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0047par0440	I'm already going to talk to you about the Undersecretary of MIT in the Prime Minister's office, so you can cut me off for ten minutes, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0048par0441	Well, here you go, just a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0047par0442	This is: We know that Europe is a colonialist, colonial, imperialist community; they were, in the past, ethnically, racially, especially Mussolini - Mustafa Kemal Özakça's term there: We know what Mussolini the Clown and Hitler were doing. They're people of practice that cost 60 million people's blood. Therefore, our admiration is not for their racist understanding of the past, but for the Copenhagen and Maastricht Critters that we want to capture. Now, Mr. President is a really hard-working leader who travels the world a lot, for his country. In Africa, he goes to Asia, but he can't go to democratic countries. In fact, in democratic countries, our President, who has been welcomed in the past, today... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He doesn't really want to go there. So, is it the changing President or the changing Europe? Europe's in place. We need to review our President's change. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit01spe0050par0448	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a 30-minute break from the merger and I'd like to call a meeting of the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0050par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Now, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mardin MP Mithat Sancar will speak. Here you go, Mr. Sancar. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your speech time is 25 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0051par0009	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a few commitments to the budget, so let me count them, and then I'll start talking. I will share with you the assessments of our group over the presidency of the ÜMMM, the presidency of the Court of the Constitution, the Supreme Court, the presidency of the Supreme Court, the Office of State, the Office of Public Control and the Secretary-General of the National Security Board. Let's start with the trial, because under these titles are the budgets of all three high judicial bodies. But I don't know where to start here, to be honest. There are so many questions about judgment, which one should we list? I've sometimes quoted philosophers from this platform, authors, and this time I'd rather quote lovers, maybe we'll talk a little bit better about our problems with them. The lover Serdari has a beautiful saying, "What should I tell you, my dear sir?" It goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Now, we're in a lot of trouble for 25 minutes, and it's not gonna fit in the books. Once again, we need to remind you of this painting, and if possible, as we talk about the Turkish National Assembly budget. It's not an ordinary situation, and we're never going to accept the usual acceptance of it, and we're not going to let that happen. They've been arrested in parliament, 10 MPs, co-chairs of a party -- which is the third largest group of the Assembly -- and now they're in jail, and we're going to continue our work as if nothing had happened, as if everything was normal. No, we can't do that, guys. There's a lot of motive here, but I'm pretty sure a lot of it isn't very big, but at least some of it doesn't believe in the reasons why it's listed by its spokesmen, or it doesn't satisfy them either. Why are our friends in prison today? Let's remember the process from the beginning and try to get the TBM to combine the judicial headlines. When did the dissolution of immunity begin? It started after June 7th. Before June 7th, there was no issue about removing immunity from us because we were having a process in Turkey where we could solve a very important problem with dialogue, talks, talks. That was the most important process in the history of Turkey. Many of the things we were accused of today were the issues where the various levels of the state openly discussed with us at that time, the issues that they asked us to do. For example, our friends, accused of being members of a terrorist organization today, were held open-handed by the government and the president or the President, in order to discuss problems everywhere. There's a law against that, you know, to secure the process. But we also said then that the authority is not running this process right because it's only trying to secure itself because it wants to do things that will only give itself an advantage. In order for that process to succeed, our friends who worked very hard to bring peace, democracy to this country are now accused of being part of the organization and of propaganda for terrorism. When did the removal of the immunity of these friends come to light? We said after June 7th. Who brought it up? President Erdogan brought it up. It's obvious why it was brought up after June 7th, but there's no need to dwell on it. Because on June 7th, a plan was nullified by the HDP; it entered the elections as a party, and over 13 per cent of the vote broke the presidential plans, and for the first time in the history of 13 years of power, the AKP made the majority of the government disappear. So on June 7th, the AKP was deprived of its majority to form a government because of HDP's work and success. It created anger and resentment, my friends. Frankly, from that day forward, anger has gradually made the results of the June 7th elections seem to be ignored. It says: "You have petitioned, and our immunity is removed." You said, "Yes, we have said, but lift it according to the rules of the Constitution." The regulations in the Constitution are clear, and the provisions of Article 83 are clear, and the provisions of Article 85 are clear. We said, please, remove our parliamentary immunity, but run the process, raise it towards the future, we're in this, we're ready for ourselves. You didn't do that. The ruling party also turned down our proposal. At the time of the amendment, we also submitted a constitutional amendment proposal. We asked you to make a constitutional amendment in accordance with the norms that apply in modern democracies, but you didn't accept it either. With a constitutional amendment, immunity to the past has been lifted. Now that we've read the reason, we can understand very well why this amendment was made. The speakers of the ruling party say: "Sir, all lawmakers are involved, there is no discrimination." But you're reading the reason, it seems our party is being targeted directly. Besides, that's what all the international agencies said. So there's a constitutional amendment here targeting an open party. Yes, it was, Mr. Bulent, and I have something to tell you, so bear with me. Yes, it was obvious that he was targeting a party because that's what the President's speech showed. The president was targeting us in the squares. The president was instructing Parliament, instructing the government. Lift that immunity, whatever you do, but lift it. You did, but with a constitutional amendment against the Constitution. That constitutional amendment was also contrary to the criteria of the Venice Commission, the human rights agreements we sided with, the standards of the institutions we belong to. Obviously, there is no legal concern. I mean, we're being legal, no, sir, judgmental... all of this is just talk. If you look at practice, you'll see that this is the period of power practices that don't know the most about the judiciary, which eliminates the judiciary. We don't really know which one to tell, so let me squeeze in what I can. I don't know if the government spokesman let it slip, or if it reflected its contents in his tongue. Mr. Survivi said: "Judge belongs to the presidency. The Constitution is in the open." What does the Constitution clearly say? He says the principle of separation of forces is the basis of this order, and the president is the head of the administration. The administration, the judgment, the legislation are separate. If it's based on judgment, there's no law, no democracy. It's called dictatorship. The President represents the unity of the state, but he has to act impartially. Has he been impartial so far, President? No. It has numerous applications, countless explanations, and many actions, meaning to violate the Constitution over and over again. Once he had to resign from his party before the President was elected, he didn't. He also ran for president when he was party leader. He was elected President on August 10, 2014, but left 17 days after his parliamentary position and AKP presidency. This is a very clear violation of the Constitution. No, you don't say anything about that. The Constitution has been clearly violated. He also attended the party congress and the AKP congress as President. How can a breach of the Constitution be more obvious? So, why isn't there a trial here? Why aren't judicial processes being run against this open violation? Remember before the June 7th elections, he's already been in the squares like the president, he hasn't kept his vote for the AKP, there's a party in my heart, I'm from that party. I want 400 MPs." he said. He propagandad in the squares with the Qur'an in his hand. There's a violation of the Constitution, and he has a head, and then you violated the law, sir, and you didn't go to the deposition, so you're going to say, "You're under arrest." And you're going to sell it to the public. I'm sorry, but if you answer to your own injustices first, then perhaps your accusations against others can be taken seriously. He ignored the will of the House over and over again. Let me remind you of one of your most memorable explanations. "The Homeland Security Act will be either out or out." he said. How can it be? How can a President give instructions to the Parliament? He's done a lot of other things. And now he's telling the House about the death penalty. We said you interfered with the trial over and over again. I don't know the Constitutional Court's decision, I don't respect it." he said. You will not go to him when the Undersecretary of MIT is called to testify." he said, "He didn't send it to the judge." Now, if the procedure is illegal and unfair, it is legitimate to react against it. At the time, I said that the operation against the Undersecretary of MIT was an unfair procedure, and our party spokesman said that because he was accused of taking part in the solution process. If the President finds it his right to say, "Don't go to his undersecretary." In such a case, why do we have to run away, by force, against a regulation that clearly violates the basic principles of the law, which is so contrary to the Constitution? But, please, do not use this as an excuse for your arrest. The reasons for the arrest are obvious, not to go to the deposition is not a reason for the arrest; you're being dragged, you're being taken, you're being testified, you're talking, you're not talking. Also, prosecutors don't have to drag them away, they can sue the person who doesn't go to the deposition directly. I said there's a clear political operation, I said there's a clear political operation, and the most important proof of that was that there was an operation organized by 15 lawmakers in one night, at the same time, coordinated by the center. What kind of neutrality is that, what kind of independence is that, here, at whose command is the judgment? Many of these proceedings are now being members of a terrorist organization, and those prosecutors are now in the process of becoming members of a terrorist organization. The trial is over. Judgement has been overturned; who does what; which prosecutor does not know which case, but as for us, sir, law works. There is no law, friends, there is no law; it is a arbitrary order; it is a political operation; I'm telling you, it is a revenge and intimidation operation. The cause of the violence after June 7th was clear, the presidential system was requested, but the HDP is blocking it; it's an effective and powerful opposition, it's disrupting its plans. Despite all attacks on November 1st, his failure to leave under the dam made the AKP and the President even more angry. Now, when he saw that he could no longer handle elections, he resorted to other methods of intimidation. He continues to digest, but HDP stands firm; our presidents continue to defend their goals and values with all their determination. Our co-chairs are being held in solitary cells. Now, we've told you guys before, you've made this constitutional amendment; okay, it's gone into effect, despite all its unlawfulness. So, what does he lift, how does he remove immunity? He lifts it from the past, not from the future. He's a congressman, they're all congressmen, they all have the right to participate in legislature activities. Why keep them in solitary cells, why don't you let them get together? What is this fear, my friends? Why are you so afraid? Although, I understand you, and you're right to be afraid, that so far all your plans have been for the presidency, for the pleasure of the administration, that we've been the most effectively nullifying all of your policies in line with antidemocratic practices, so we don't understand your desire to take revenge on this, but it won't succeed.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0052par0024	Mr. Sancar, a moment of your time. Mr. Patrice, the President of Benin, has arrived at the General Assembly of Talon, and we welcome him. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Executive Account for 2015 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2015 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2017 2) Prime Ministership Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The President of the Religious Works' Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) The Head of Religious Affairs 2015 Central Management Terminate Account RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasure 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account Here, Mr. Sancar, I'll add it to your time.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0053par0080	Okay, thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, well, there are other things we need to talk about here, so I'm gonna try to get through it fast. On the way to the November 1st election, you said either power alone or chaos. But we saw that power alone brings chaos. Constantly, this lust for power, the desire to rule alone, the ambition, the deeper chaos, the greater crises. What you really need to do is give up this passion. If you signal a pluralist return to a democratic system, the dollar -- at least a lot of people say it, I believe -- falls fast, cuts off the economic crisis. I'll tell you, just for a week, let's talk about democracy, pluralism, the law state, signaling for practices in that direction, the economic crisis will be taken away. This economic crisis is a political crisis, its reasons are political, and the great tension of dictatorship's ambitions is a reflection of the economy. The budget of the MIT Undersecretary is one of the issues I'm going to talk about. The 15th of July cannot pass without a reminder of the coup attempt. Now, the questions we've been asking for six months about the July 15 coup attempt have not been answered. For example, we're asking what the political force behind this coup attempt is, there's no answer, no answer. We've been elected to the coup commission. The coup commission was created by the adoption of four parties, but the Strike Commission refuses to listen to the original actors, the first-degree officials. We'd like them to invite you with the other opposition party deputies, but they won't. ▪ Why don't you call the Chief of Staff? Why don't you bring him in here and let us listen to him? They're making lame explanations. Dear friends, if the AKP wants to prove its sincerity in counter-plot, first let this community reveal its own feet within the organization. You've been running it for 14 years, every organization you've helped in 14 years is becoming the most dangerous terrorist organization in the world in one year, and you're not afraid to victimize countless people over it. So, tell me, friends, who put so many judges in the Justice Department? Who supported those arguments while they were being prepared? What government was here? Does anyone in this Cabinet and in the AKP Group use by Lock? We're asking, are there any other parties? Names are coming out in the press, we read them, but there's no word from the government. Tell me, if we've got one, let's find out. We also asked for this in the coup commission, and we said, let's just ask for a list of MPs from the Prime Minister's office or the relevant unit. Who was driving byLock, who was active in this network, which MP, only MP, which party. No, we haven't heard back from him either, and there's been no attempt at that either. It's all about national will, but it's all about getting rid of wherever there's a choice. In colleges, the election was already half-assed, it was already stuck in a tight space, and now you've completely removed it. You're dismissing the mayors, and you're saying that my master is involved in terrorism. Because of what actions did they support terrorism? It's clear why these municipalities are appointed trustees, using the opportunity to make an extraordinary case without seeking a verdict. There's no other name for it, to take what the people don't give you, despite the national will. We want a single verdict, we want a single charge of corruption, we want a single certificate of theft, we want a list of trustees assigned to municipalities. But he says that the mayor of a major city municipality has sold a parcel of Ankara, or that he's going after it. He's been Vice Prime Minister of this party, he's been acting Speaker of Parliament, but he's standing still. Corruption is fair, politics is forbidden, that's the essence of dictatorship: corruption, theft, slander, everything is fair, there's no control over them, but when you do politics, you will immediately be hung up as a terrorist, and you will be left out of politics. There's no way any of this could lead to success for the owners of these plans. Look at the recent history of the Kurdish problem, where all parties following the war and security policies have collapsed, all the rulings have collapsed. Which one is called no now? No one's heard of it. So, friends, it's clear that what you're going to do here is not the way you're going to do it, it's not the way you're going to do it, it's not the way you're going to do it, it's not the way you're going to do it, it's not the way you're going to do it, it's the way you're going to do it, it's not the way you're going to do it, it's the way you're going to do it, it's the way you're going to do it, it's the way you're going to do it, it's the way, it's the way it's not going to do it's not going to do it, it's the way, it's the way, it's the way it's not going to do it's not going to do it, it's the country, it's not going to make this country, it's the peace, it's the country, it's the country. Yeah, it's not over. I'll add a few more things and then tie them up. Look, my dear friends, this government has a strategy, a management technique. When he makes a mistake, he covers it up with a bigger mistake; when he commits a crime, he commits a bigger crime to cover it up; when a crisis arises, he raises a bigger crisis to cover it up, and he thinks that if we make this administration a permanent crisis, then our power becomes permanent. However, some of the examples that we have recently lived in show that this is never possible. We started with justice, we've come to this. I'd like to tie it up with the words of a lover again, with the memory of a precious populace. The late lover Ihsani would have said worse if he'd seen our current painting. I'll tell you a few lines about him, which I think fit today: the wood was hurtful, and his name was Ilyas. Anyway, I'm skipping. Look at me, friend; what did he say? / I said you're a citizen; he said he/ I said you have a law; he said he'd sharpened his axe from behind; I said I'd go after him; he said according to them/ I said I was bad; said I a thousand times; I said the truth, justice; he said to the ground. / Hyah! Is it wrong, O Ihsani, that he is in love with Allah? But you can see that it's not going to go this way, not from the lovers, not from the struggle for humanity. It's good for everyone to be back when the road is near. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0054par0094	Thank you, Mr. Sancar. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Nimethullah Erdoğmiş will speak. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğ. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0055par0099	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Starting with my remarks, I salute my fellow lawmakers and mayors, especially my co-chairs, who are currently under arrest. Now, before I begin my remarks about the President of the Religious Affairs, I'd like to express one expectation and one wish. Our friends who are now in there, hopefully, will come out soon, and they will re-introducing that olive branch, the hope of peace, with an olive branch presented to us by the dove. With your permission, of course, I'd like to share with you something about the nature of religion, which is not mine, of course, beyond me, but about the determination of transportation. In the announcement, the first verses of the Qur'an, the Prophet of the Holy Prophet, were given his prophecy, he was heavily burdened, and had good morals, but therefore there is no voice from Quraysh, but there is another reason to raise Quraysh to his feet. What is it? In the first verses, in Mecca, in the first three years when the invitation was kept secret, the Qur'an puts together a proud and arrogant tyrant, who once flourished in wealth and capitalists, and those who were proud and boastful, and those who had the power to call them leaders of that day, and puts together a partner, such as those who are rich and flourished in wealth, a single, proud, proud and proud ruler. That is why the Meccans rose up the Quraysh. Look, we use this word "kebair" about great sins. Conspiracy is at the beginning of great sins. So, with this kebair, it's really the same root, to be monosympathetic, to be proud. As you know, a partner is a believer's problem. And what did the Qur'an put in front of them? And he put before them another class, which we called the affluent and the arrogant people, who were deprived of their rights, who were deprived of their freedoms, who were weak, and who were therefore oppressed. That is the basis for the presence of slaves in the presence of the Holy Prophet, for those who were deprived of their freedom acted with the Holy Prophet. Is this landscape in Mecca present today in the Islamic world, in our mind world, in our faith world, or in the religious ministry? Can't say I do. Well, let's say this is very heavy, let's look at Medina. As soon as I emigrated to Medina, there is a document known as Sahife, which is still available, known as the Medina Convention, known as the Medinan Vesika, which is well known to my teachers from the Bible. The first sentence of that document is about identifying identities. We've got that book right there documenting that equality by reminiscing of the faith groups, the Jews, the other tribes, with their beliefs. Do you have any attitude or attitude toward this? Unfortunately, we can't say that either. In the coming period, the Head of Religious Affairs has continued to renew contact with this Happy Birth Week. I propose to them that this year's theme be that book, the articles of that book. See how the identity is recognized there, and how war has been forbidden in Medina, and at least we share it with you through our community. Dear friends, this is difficult, and that's not possible. I want to give an example: See, when they came to Israel, Israel, and Israel came to Mevud, there is an old town on the Jordan River, which we today know as Jericho, and there is a city on the West Bank; and when they came there, they found a high wall, an impenetrable wall. They crossed that wall with their songs, with their hymns, and with their voices, and with their words, and with their counsel. Today we are not talking about the wall between Syria and Turkey that is now being built. We're not just talking about governorships and security walls built around trustees in our district today, and we're not talking about that recently added firewall that's been applied to municipalities as a result of the trustee appointment, because we know that every wall builds that wall because of a single concern, because of one concern; it's called a wall of fear, but it's actually a wall of fear. I'm not talking about these walls or these firewalls, but I'm saying, how do I get over these walls, how do I wash them, right now, in the hearts, in the minds, in the heads? Let him enter an effort to rebuild, yes, how to restore the spiritual bonds of these people. In the Parliament, where we are now, there are iron bars that are invisible, and there is a fact that 50 percent of them are turned against 50 percent. Finally, dear friends, the President of the Religious Affairs has discharged his staff regarding this final coup process, the attempted and unsuccessful coup process. There's a review board, and he's done it without any need of the Inspection Board. Thirty-five years ago, when the constitution of the Kenan Universe was voted out, our officials in the region that gave no were not subjected to this persecution, but again, as a result of the inspection of the Board of Reviews of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, they changed their positions. I demand this from our government spokesman in charge today and from the President of the Religious Affairs: we are looking for him -- please -- at the site of the Ministry of Religious Affairs 35 years ago.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0056par0109	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğ.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0055par0110	I'm saying that we're willing to accept the results of the investigation, the investigation, the investigation of our fellow officers, our dismissed, expelled friends. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0056par0113	Mr. Erdoğmi, thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr Ahmet Yıldırım will now speak. Mr. Lightning, please. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0057par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I will, of course, speak on the institutions discussed today's budget, but before I say very briefly: Today morning, our mayor of Şemdinli, who was taken into custody four days ago, was arrested, and again, this morning, Diyarbakır's Yenişehir and Kayapınar mayors were detained. Over there, again, I'm going to continue to submit to the special information of this House. The lawyer who was taken into custody today went to the prosecutor's office to file our mayor's case. The reason for his arrest is a speech he made at the Democratic Society Congress in 2007. In 2007, a speech was made: 2016, first appointing a trustee to the municipality, the seizure of the municipality. It was decided that the will of the people there was to be removed, and they probably sought a reason for it for a long time, and they couldn't find it, so they gave an excuse for a conversation they found in 2007. In the same way, our mayors from New York City, Şemdin are not so different. I'll give you a few more examples: 40 days ago, our co-chairs of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, our beloved Gültan Kışanak and Fırat Anlı, were arrested and appointed trustees. Gültan Kışanak was arrested on charges of co-chairing the Democratic Society Congress from 2009 to 2012. Zinhar, there is no such thing. Gültan Kışanak did not co-chair the Democratic Society Congress for a day, let alone 2009-2012. The other issue, let's leave it, is that over 60 pages in the file on Gultan Kışanak, Mr. Mayor, are based on his co-chair of the Democratic Society Congress. With so many unlawful claims, so many unsubstantiated claims, it's decided to seize a municipality first, and then there are false legal grounds. In the same way, our Firat Anlı Co-Chair was arrested for the following reason: talks in 2009 and 2015; talks in public, police cameras, talks in public events, where there are members of the press. All these irregularities to our people... with political decisions, first the arrest and arrest of our friends, and then the story of the trustee appointment to the municipalities, which means confiscation and disposing of the will of the people. All our people, all Turkey, all 79 million people should know that. One more thing, I'm going to share our opinions, our party views, as much as I can about the budget of these institutions. Mr. Kışanak, Mr. Anlı, Mr. Kayapınar and Yenişehir are our mayors, and all of the proceedings against our friends of İdris Baluken and other MPs have been prepared by prosecutors who have been known by the government as terrorists and have been arrested on terrorist charges. Currently, under the prosecution's case on the arrest of İdris Baluken, there is the signature of a arrested prosecutor. Here's a few examples of who's doing business with who, who's thinking about who's acting in power. We can offer you dozens of files on these. Now I'm going to share my thoughts with the Radio and Television Oversight about the Press and Information General Directorate. The media was never free in this country, the media was never independent. In fact, we've divided the media throughout the history of the republic: the first was the media that tried to stay independent, but struggling to survive under the fragility of economic stress, trying to become a real media member and an organ under very narrow conditions. And there were media organs owned by investors with holdings behind them. This is not about power, because in Turkey, investors saw media as a means to create perception of politics and legitimize their positions, and so on for years. The media was not a means to capitalize, but a means to sustain their capital for the investors, but if it wasn't, the media was not a goal for them. Dear friends, in ancient Turkey, the media was heading towards politics, and in the new Turkey, the media was especially destroyed by the current government, the plurality was lost, the media was transformed into a single color, monotony, and media that was under custody. The pluralism between media organs was thus destroyed. And other than that, there are press members and organs who are trying to do their part, hard but honorable. They're trying to exist. So, these are media members of every period. They're fired, they're detained, they're arrested, the yellow press cards are cancelled, but they pay all the costs, they try to stay independent and neutral, they try to protect their honor despite all the pressure policies of power. The real press and media members are for us. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to point out a few issues regarding the Radio and Television Supreme Council, which I've served for four years before. You know, there are radios, TVs, and newspapers, which are particularly closed by the decree of the law. I'll tell you how big this is about radio and television. Mr. President of the RTÜK is here. Your institution receives its power from Article 133 of the Constitution, which means you are chairing a constitutional institution. Radio TV Law 6112 was adopted in this 133 context. Imagine that a constitutional institution, an institution that performs its work and procedures according to the Constitution, is annulled by a decree of the law, bypassed by radio and televisions are shut down. There's no way we're calling this a law order anymore. For the KHK shall prevail over the law, and over the law; and they shall not prevail over the Constitution. RTÜK must also know that he did his work by taking it from the Constitution. On the other hand, let's put it this way, dear friends: look, about the radios and televisions that have been turned off, I'm asking the head of RTÜK to answer the relevant minister here. After the KHKs, how many channels are on the air today, protecting the right to broadcast in their native language, in different languages and dialects, which were outlawed during the rule period before you in 2002, under the laws of integration of the European Union? How many radios and televisions are broadcast in Kurdish today? The power before you has created this within the framework of the European Union's law of harmony. Freedoms have been expanded before you, and you, you continue to maintain the outlaw mentality. Because it's not pluralism, it's monotheism, because you've not seen freedom, unfortunately, you've seen a banned mentality here with your child. Again, dear MPs, dear friends, look, let's put it this way about RTÜK. I wish I had told you if our Minister had been here. On October 1st, a media member asks: "Why are the radios and televisions turned off with the KHK?" Mr. Survivi says: "If there is an accident, there is an injustice, there are objections, reports are prepared, and we will see if there is a need." The name of this is: You close first, you kill someone, you bury them, and then you say, "Was it guilty or not guilty?" You shut them down, confiscated their goods and moved their goods to the TRT. You've moved with such an extortionist culture. Now, it's impossible to get up and talk about media freedom, freedom of the press. And here's the thing about canceling the yellow press cards: you can't decide who's going to be a journalist with those cards. In many countries in Europe, the press unions give the cards, and the state doesn't. If it were up to the state, the yellow press cards would be cancelled, the EC press cards would be issued, only the press members who work for them would be allowed to perform their professions, and everyone else would be banned from performing their press professions. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0058par0133	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The last speaker on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group will be İstanbul MP Garo Paylan. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0059par0137	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. How's the economy going, guys? I visited a tradeshop in Istanbul, and now I've visited a tradeshop in Ankara; we haven't been able to visit some tradeshops because the streets are filled with rental ads and rental ads again.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0060par0139	What are you going to get out of it?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0059par0140	Back in the day, a year or two ago, you would have seen less of a house for sale, and now, no matter where you go, there are ads for sale all the way across the streets and streets; the houses are not sold, and the shop is in bad shape.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0061par0141	Is that such a big deal?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0059par0142	The consumer's confidence is on the line. The consumer has lost confidence and has a serious sense of what will happen tomorrow. The investor's confidence is in the wind. Look, the increase in private sector investments is going to negative. The public is only trying to pump a little bit. We're going to build a bridge, we're going to build a road. But the private sector has lost confidence. The unemployment numbers are rising, and every worker faces the fear of losing his job. Since 1976, look, the first time we've fallen from G20, friends, we've fallen from 20 developed countries, we've fallen under Argentina. If the dollar stays dry around here, we're no longer G20 countries, and our economy will reveal the number of reductions in the third and fourth quarters. In this frame, we are no longer in G20. I don't know, does Mr. President know he can't go to G20 meetings? Look, why don't you tell the AKP why they bought the economy for $4,000... They took $4,000, and we brought the economy to $11,000, and they boasted. How many dollars is the gross domestic product today and the national income per person? $7,000, over $7,000. We're down to $7,000 and it's upside down. As the dollar goes up dry and the number of shrinks is up, we're down to $7,000, which is $7,000 for those with jobs. Since he also receives a large percentage of the income by 1%, he is being dragged towards a narrow income, even greater poverty. Guys, I'll tell you why. Turkey had a story. What was his story when the AKP first arrived? While Mr. President was not Prime Minister, he visited countries of the European Union, and I will oppose status quo, I will lead the country towards democracy, I will move the country towards the values of the European Union, I will bring transparency, I will make the legal state a judge. I'm going to create a very loud Turkey, a democratic Turkey. The European Union heard that. At the end of 2004, yes, yes, we want Turkey to start negotiations with the European Parliament. Immediately after that, look, in 14 years, Turkey has entered $500 billion. Look, we've shorted $470 billion, and the net error is $50-60 billion... over $500 billion, but he's been trying to get away for the last two years, so how do I get my money out of this country, this dark country? We could have recovered after the coup, see, but the claim to being the only man also narrows it down, and we've become a country where he's trying to escape without looking back at the capital. Guys, let's see what we did with 500 billion dollars. A country with $500 billion in it could really jump the age, but what have we invested the money in? We have invested in the dwelling, in the construction industry, in the words of the prophet. The government built bridges, made roads, it was very important, but look, these aren't sustainable things, we had to invest in our people first. We increased the numbers in education, you say. The per capita, per student's expenses are at $2,000; in developed countries, this is 10-15 thousand dollars per student. You haven't shown any scientific training, look. Is there a patent in the country? Is there an idea? They're needed to be an advanced country.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0062par0149	It's obvious you live in another country, you don't know the world.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0059par0150	Greece also spent all its money on the bridge, on the road; as a result, Spain made similar mistakes, spent it on construction, on construction; they had crises in the past years. And our country, I'm afraid, is on the eve of that. But, what could we do? Look, the production industry is down to 14 per cent of the GDP, Mr. Secretary. With a 14 per cent production industry, the country cannot grow with the manufacturing sector. The country can't grow if you spend all the illegal domestic product on Ranta and Rant. What could we do? We could create a production economy, we could improve our agriculture, we could improve our animalism, we could develop our universities, we could develop creative children, we could really move our country to those 2023 goals you were talking about. We could invest in scientific education, and most importantly, we could invest in peace and democracy, but for the past few years, the AKP has broken the helm towards the Shanghai Five... The Shanghai values are clear, my friends, but Shanghai countries have oil, natural gas. They were able to survive the dictatorship, despite the Putin embargoes. We can't. As long as we keep these policies going, we're on the road to becoming a darker, poorer, darker country. So, how do you run the economy? Mr. Lightning is here. I think he's in a lot of trouble over the last year. Look, Mr. Ali Babacan had the Economic Co-ordination Board in his presidency, and everyone knew that -- foreign, inside and out -- Ali Babacan runs the economy. Now let's see, can you say Mr. Mehmet Simsek is leading? Mr. Mehmet Simsek's face has been blackened. There's a Nurettin Canikli, a minister of state in charge of those sewers -- my sewer, the sewer -- who talks at the same time. Now Mehmet Simsek cannot head the Economic Co-ordination Board. The Prime Minister said: I will be president of this government.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0063par0156	What's it to you? What's the matter with the government? Whoever manages it, rules it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0059par0157	The Prime Minister couldn't do it recently either.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0064par0158	You're gonna do it?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0059par0159	He announced a meeting, Mr. President immediately cancelled that meeting and took it to court the next day. Mr. Secretary, who is the President of the Economic Co-ordination Board? Who coordinates the economy? The economy is given to the expert, given to the master of the business. Yeah, he's Jamil Oğim, who screwed up everything he's been through. I was an economist. He says, but what kind of economist is he? Hero Cloud has screwed up everything he's ever done in his life, calling himself an economist, but he doesn't understand economics. Look, the economy is about rationality. I don't agree with Mr. Mehmet Simsek's economic policies, but I know he's a rationalist economist, but the irrational view is that, unfortunately, at $1.5 in 2002-2014, he moved our economy to $11,000 -- 3.5. Cemil Ergerm and Heroic Cloud took the mind from one and a half, and took the dollar to three and a half. Is that our dream?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0065par0162	Your dream is different. It wouldn't be your dreams, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0059par0163	But look, I'm warning the government that if you don't immediately take the will from Cemil Oğim and Heroic Cloud and give it to Mehmet Simsek (the head of the Economic Co-ordination Board), that dollar will come out even further, my friends. Well, Mr. President, lower the interest. Mr. Mehmet Lightning, how much does the Treasury owe? He's in debt with 11. Why don't you drop it? Why don't you say, "I'm in debt with six, I'm in debt with five." Is the economy run by instructions? Does interest fall by instruction? Who's tried this before? My friends tried the strawberries in 1994. He instructed you not to borrow above that place. The dollar rose from 15,000 liras, raised to 40,000 liras, tripled. We're at the same risk again. Look, interest doesn't rise, of course, but interest is one of the instruments in the economy as a result. If you don't set the Central Bank free, if the Central Bank doesn't know that it has the gun, the market will raise the interest from 2.5 to 3.5, but if the Central Bank gets the freedom of the vehicle, it will maintain the policies it wants, but unfortunately it doesn't have the freedom. Friends, I claim, if you leave our co-chairs, leave our MPs...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0066par0168	It's gonna be okay.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0059par0170	...let us establish the rule of law -- our country is 99 percent in 113 countries -- release journalists, release opposition journalists, make a statement to parliament about the confidence in the judiciary...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0067par0171	Don't yell, don't wave.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0059par0172	...free the Central Bank, Cemil Erdem, and rid of the Heroic Cloud, and give up the speech of the Shanghai Five...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0068par0173	Keep your mind to yourself.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0059par0174	...the number one rule of capitalism, the property is untouchable, I will touch property without judgment.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0069par0175	Not Turkey with your head, Turkey divided by your head.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0068par0176	Keep your mind to yourself, we have our own mind.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0059par0177	...that dollar -- you can't hold it, friends -- walks towards $4, and our country is a poorer country in every sense. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0070par0180	What happened, what did you just do? What did you gain by defaming Turkey?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0071par0181	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. Members of parliament, it is now time to listen to the speakers of the National Movement Party Group. The first speaker will be İstanbul MP Edip Semih Yalçın on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Yalçin. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0072par0187	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party to discuss the budgets of the presidency, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Public Control Agency. I salute you all. At a time when the presidential budget is on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Constitutional amendment is one of the most important topics of the public agenda to redefine the mandate and powers of the presidency. So, of course, it's more about the President's new shirt of execution than the content of his budget, as part of the Constitutional amendment. Because the form of government and the function the president performs in this form will be decisive in terms of the functioning of the democratic system. If you notice the public debate, it's about to be a minor. Talks on the limited constitutional amendment between the Justice and Development Party and the National Movement Party reached a final turn, and the heads of both parties reached a compromise. It is expected that this week the ruling party will bring to Parliament the final draft of the agreement, which was given according to the opinion and proposals of the DP. It depends on whether the constitutional amendment will be accepted, whether it will be taken to a referendum, or not, the will of the Grand Assembly to be granted in the name of the nation. Dear friends, why did Turkey come to this point when Turkey had been through a serious ordeal on July 15th, while our state had not yet recovered from the trauma that day? It's been a while since we've had the same kind of questions. However, the answers to such and such questions are hidden within themselves. The goal is to get the state through the trauma and keep the Turkish train going without a hitch. It's certainly not coincidental that the July 15 coup attempt appeared in a negative atmosphere for the country. This busy enterprise is the product of conscious chaos timing. The July 15 initiative has brought all the evil centers, all the enemies in and out of Turkey, to the same line, unfortunately. In fact, July 15th is only part of an imperialist process aimed at neutralising Turkey in its territory. The game's big. The attack hasn't slowed down yet, and the sneaky plans haven't ended yet. Global actors are determined to continue the process to bring back the 15th of July. Inside, all the evil centers continue their attacks in an alliance. Outside, leaders and politicians of what we think are called friends have made their position against Turkey a state policy. I'm afraid even the owners, stewards, and gardeners of the magnificent estate of the European Union, where we've been held at the door for 53 years, are against us. Warm messages do not come from Donald Trump, who is behind the wheel of an American sign trying to adjust the globe across the ocean, which should not be expected. It should be known that no matter who takes over in Washington, the basic policies of America will never change. Expecting radical change in American policy with Trump is like expecting them to be safe when they hand over chickens to the fox in the henhouse. America's idea of foreign policy has not changed since the interesting discovery of former President Roosevelt: speak softly, but carry a large stick, so that you can go further. This is basic philosophy. As a matter of fact, D.C. kept Iran in a sense of threat, but secretly it was able to establish common interests with this country, and in Iraq and Syria, it kept Turkey out of the equation. Turkey is not required to be part of any regional solution and actor. As Washington's plans for Iraq and Syria did not include Ankara's ideas yesterday and today, it will not be surprising that tomorrow does not. The great danger for Turkey is the efforts of the nation's state process, which has not yet been completed, to be blocked by Westerners and separatist organisations, which are their subcontractors. The attempt on July 15th should also be interpreted in this framework. Campaigns conducted against Turkey by the leaders and organisations of the European Union show the seriousness of these efforts. Turkey's decision to move forward towards membership in the European Union is not to nullify the accounts of global actors; it is a step towards showing Western values that it is ready for political and economic integration. However, European politicians have kept Turkey out of the EU, where they target the national and unitary structure. In Germany, the former member of the Party of the Christian Democratic Union summing up the European Union's view of Turkey in a stunning way: the opinion of Western critics who defend only its own justice is this: we don't want you in the European Union, but you still have to follow our rules. The European Union is a global project, but today the future of this project is at stake in the reality of the nation's state. It is also the national state phenomenon behind the emergence of Brexit (Brexit) in England and the British people saying "No" to the EU. Ataturk discovered the secrets of the national state and the unitary structure, but he didn't have enough time to complete it. His seed has taken root, and Turkey has known to move on despite all obstacles, antidemocratic increments, coups. Meanwhile, the struggle of imperialism against polarization and national structures caused by globalization has been counterproductive. Global imperialism, which has laid the groundwork for the rise of nationalism and conservative values, has faced resistance to national state structures and local unitary mechanisms. The Western world's new colonial policies, rather than its universal values, have also led to the evolution of modern democracies into the regime of powerful leaders and autocracy. So that even the great states in the global position of actors have seen that they can maintain their compulsion with strong leadership. In the United States of America, which claims to rule the world, not only have the wrong internationally, the Obama administration has not only shaken this country's international prestige, but it has turned the globe into chaos. Among the many factors involved in the election of Trump, in the United States, this maturity has much to do with us. Some reflections of Trumplar, Putins, Merkels' world to Turkey, you'll certainly appreciate. Turkey should meet this process not by actual practice and the understanding of arbitrary governance, but by stitching up the rule of law. In this context, the facility of a consistent democratic system is absolutely necessary to eliminate all inconsistencies, verb and arbitrary practices. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, as it is known, Mr. State Bahçeli, in his speech at our party's group meeting on October 11th, has made a turning point in our political history and has said that Mr. President has created an actual situation by crossing his mandate. After these warnings, Mr. President's call was received positively by Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister, pressing the button for a constitutional amendment. A process was then initiated. The main thing here is that the constitutional amendment, which determines the duties and responsibilities of the presidency, is not comprehensive and is limited. The nationalist movement party's goal is not to beat up the farmer, but to eat grapes. He is leading politics to carry out its role, without being challenged by a decay to break the foundations of the regime, without being dragged into an unreturning atmosphere of lawlessness. To be a guide, more than that, is to make sure that the blocked channels are opened. A four-headed and comprehensive constitutional amendment is a long-term road that can be carried out within the framework of the agreement reached in the previous constitutional commissions. For now, neither conjunctural nor political atmosphere is available. After July 15th, the democratic system that has been seriously derailed has been restored and the threats to Turkey have been eliminated, we are confident that the national agreement will be reached and resolved. In the face of the National Movement Party pressing the button for the constitutional amendment, all these factors that we're talking about are unfair. The National Movement Party is the party that always solves political deadlocks in Turkish political life. He played constructive roles in eliminating political crises. Today he faces the greatest depression and threats in the history of Turkey. Criticism at the time of criticism is the nature of politics, and so is the National Movement Party. At the point where today, our party was right in almost every area, its ideas were right, its ideas were right, and its proposals of solutions came out one by one. The most concrete example of this is that the MHP's insistence that it is extremely wrong to negotiate with terrorism and terrorists from a long time ago. It is now clear that the fight against terrorism must continue until the last terrorist is destroyed in the most uncompromising and decisive way. The nationalist Movement Party has been justified that the state must do whatever it takes to ensure the safety of property and lives of the people forever. Today, the government is fighting terrorism in a noncompromising way, and our government is fighting separatist terrorism. Dear lawmakers, there are such events in the political lives of countries that they are decisive and decisive for the future. One of these events occurred on the 15th of July, which we just focused on, and Turkey has come back from the brink. It has also been understood from today that another sneaky group of separatist terrors outside the PKK has infiltrated all levels of the state. In short, it has been revealed that this group, called the ا/PDY, is about to take over the state and destroy the regime. The National Movement Party has taken serious steps from this date to ensure that the rule of law is quick to come to life and to end the practices that led to the violation of the Constitution. Our party, as the National Movement Party, has taken matters into our own hands, and we have done our part, and we continue to do so. At this point, it has now come to light that one of the greatest sources of the lawlessness, ▪/PDP, has been leaked to the bones of the system, particularly the judiciary, and has been established at the foundations of the state. Our country's resistance to domestic and external threats has been weakened by the cutting-edge human element in key states. At the beginning of the factors that brought Turkey to July 15th, the plans of a group of terrorists in uniform, some with ties, some with ties, to take over the state and to destroy the regime are coming. In view of this situation, the way to restore a strong democratic regime in Turkey is to dominate an understanding of governance, which is that the requirements of the Constitution and the laws are carefully met. The Turkish ship must be removed from these wavy waters and retreated to the quiet port of the law. So, in action from here, the National Movement Party, as in the fight against terrorism, has placed its hand under the democratic brick to repair the stones, the shaking foundations of the regime in Turkey, to put the government's style on the constitutional basis. Here, it's not the interests of one person or group, it's the welfare of our entire nation, it's the welfare of our state. In the constitutional amendment talks between the ruling party and the National Movement Party, the Parliament is in a strong and effective position against its execution, the principle of separation of forces is considered to be carried out. Of course, Turkey's risks cannot be eliminated just by changing its management system. Turkey's future is required to identify and eliminate all factors that pose a risk to the fate of our nation. No matter what law you pass, no matter what constitution you accept, it's most important that they be applied and adhered to the rule of rule of law. Again, again, we think it's important that the rule of law be made part of our democratic culture. In light of all these facts, the nationalist Movement Party's insistence on why the rule of rule of law in Turkey must be placed quickly and precisely. The National Movement Party is a political institution for those who sincerely believe that the rule of law precedes democracy. Without the rule of law, it is certain that democracy will become dictatorial regimes, autocracy. Everybody needs the law. It is possible to strengthen democracy, to end human rights violations, to bring peace and social peace into our country, but only to dominate the rule of law. The continuation of the nation's state process, which was launched by this Parliament and by the founder of this state, Ataturk, can also be achieved by the rule of law, not by the threat and attacks, but by our own geography as well as internationally. In addition, the national state process, laid down by Ataturk, will no longer be able to be diverted by global interference. This process continues despite all obstacles. Despite the West, Turkey will continue its efforts to be a country that respects Western norms and universal values, while maintaining the unitary and national state structure. As an active political actor, the National Movement Party will continue to do its part, as it has been today. I salute the High Council, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0073par0202	Thank you, Mr. Yalçin. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Oktay Ozturk will now speak. Here you are, Mr. Ozturk, 14 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0074par0206	The great Turkish nation, Mr. President, the valued MPs, I have taken a pledge to present the views and proposals of the National Movement Party on the Constitutional Court, Supreme Court and Prosecutorate budgets. On this occasion, I salute you all. The heart would want to talk about the principle that democracy and the principles of the law state are an important institution for the practice of this platform, and that the Constitutional Court, which is the most fundamental providers of this practice, is to use the budgets of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Court and the State's concrete solution in order to bring structural innovation in our proposals; and that the principle of the unconditioned national use of sovereignty developed by the idea of democracy, and that the rule of sovereignty that is the natural consequence of this principle, can be used by the bodies of balance, and that the rule of justice between these bodies can be used by the rule of justice, including democracy and human rights and the balance, and that this principle can be achieved, and that it can be unbiastered by the rule of justice and the constitution. In this regard, the Constitutional Court is the guarantee of a state and administration structure in accordance with the Constitutional Court, which regulates the state's law and establishes it as the most basic norm. The document of both political and legal order in a country is, of course, the Constitution. All legal norms that the state and administration will be bound to have to be in accordance with this basic document. In addition to this harmony and compliance between the Constitution and the laws, there is a requirement that state and administration bodies act according to these rules of law and adhere to the law. Loyalty to this law also means that the individual's basic rights and freedoms should be protected and secured. Here is the Supreme Court of the Constitution, the most active, most fundamental provider body of both the Constitution and sub-norms and the state body of law. But we're a little further away from talking about it every day. As a matter of fact, when we looked at the country's practice, we put it on every bench that we've ever had the opportunity to see that this role of the Constitutional Court has not been fully achieved. Every semester, we shouted that tension over the political power, which the country's agenda has witnessed, and the Constitutional Court's decisions, did not benefit the country at all. On the other hand, we continued to point to the danger of the politicalisation of the judge as much as the politicalisation of the judiciary, reminding that the basic order and border for everyone is the Constitution. Again, we have witnessed a new cause added to judicial-political tension, when the right to individual application to the Constitutional Court, which was put into effect in September 2012, was expected to be a key mechanism for the protection of the individual's rights and freedoms. We have always noted that such tensions and consequences will have severe consequences for the country and the nation. At the point where we're here today, this and what we said earlier about the Constitutional Court is still valid, but after the coup attempt on July 15th, it is now necessary for everyone to understand that a structure that our investigative authorities described as a terrorist organization is now being constructed in this degree in the judiciary and damaging the country's democracy and the legal system. We, including the 2010 HSYK changes, are at peace with our warnings and at the point of our struggle as a political party to do our duty, but as a representative of the idea of Turkish nationalism, as a particular political party, we are just as uncomfortable with this black picture that our country has fallen into. We now believe that after this stage, the first priority is to destroy the last member of the judiciary, no matter who the end of this dirty structure is. Those who are alleged to be terrorists within the judicial body should not be present for a moment as a judge. The government can't have such a contradiction. Especially the foundation of the estate, the justice of justice, and the judicial body cannot stand by such contradictions. For the existence and continuation of this state, the innocent must be dealt with under the rule of law again, without being touched. At this point, I'd like to express that we are truly a supporter of any struggle and enterprise with this dirty structure. On the other hand, how did we get to this point? Everyone has to think and fulfill their responsibility. While such a struggle is a priority, we are benefiting from resolving and again expressing our proposals in order to ensure that the Constitutional Court's role in our constitutional system is fulfilled properly. As we have already stated, there are other systems in the world, but since 1961, the Constitutional Court is the most fundamental provider of the rule of rule of law and the rule of law. If we can talk about the rule of law, for one thing, the state and the administration must have been established. As it is known to all, the most basic document is the Constitution. The state and administration must act and adhere to the Constitution, which is the basic document, as well as to the laws and other lower norms that should be in accordance with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court, of course, will oversee the fitness of this sequence of fitness between each other and the law in the most general sense. Yes, constitutions contain fundamental binding provisions for the political and administrative structure of the state as well as legal documents. Most of the time, the Constitutional Court's decisions concern political and administrative structure. At this point, the political-judgment dispute that our country's practice is so used to. We see that the political institution, especially its representatives, has criticised the Constitutional Court's decisions to the extent that they will press or publicly discredit the judiciary. This approach is a contradiction that the government cannot contain. Political institutions will do their job, and while they do, they will stick to the law, and they have no authority except that. The Constitutional Court, in its audit, will not be subject to any other principle other than law enforcement in its judicial decisions. As each person and institution within the state structure knows and acts according to the limits set by the Constitution, so it must also know and act according to the limits set by other institutions. The other topics of our discussion, the Supreme Court and the Court, are the same as what we say about the general judiciary. Judgement is the conscience of society, justice is the foundation of property. The more popular the belief in justice and the sense that justice is being served in a society, the more quality and healthy the life of that society is, the more powerful and powerful the state that provides it. At one point, the victims who were victimized by saying that they had brought justice to justice and then became victims, shouting "justice" is a close, striking example of how the judiciary was made a political object. As the National Movement Party, the identity of the victims, regardless of the period of this process, has not changed or changed our approach to our defence of the need for neutrality and independence of the judiciary. The neutrality and independence of the judiciary is the most fundamental possession of everyone's conscience without bending and bending over for him or for this group, ideology or person. Otherwise, we can't talk about a country to live in, or a peaceful life to live in, or the honorable individuals who believe in the idea of living together. Since the Supreme Court members have not shown the necessary sensitivity in their selection, we see that the judiciary has been brought down since the 2010 HSYK elections. He was so taken down that they abandoned these people because their consciences -- I think they were disturbed by the decision they made. As a nationalist movement party, we've recently watched this in the most painful way and in the name of the law. As you know, the court of justice has decided on the nationalist movement party, and the verdict is 18. He came to the Supreme Court. Unfortunately, since we've seen what's being done in the judiciary, we've pointed out that there will be no fair decision here. Although we have warned by certain means, the Supreme Court says the decision must go to the Constitutional Court, 18. He's sending it to the law firm. However, in those days, 18. It's like every judge in the law department has a warrant, they've left the apartment, no one's answering that. Then, when they make a decision, they add it: "If we knew that we were going to the Constitutional Court, we would have made a waiting element. " They knew, but they ran away to avoid it. One of the judges who decided on the National Movement Party is on the run, and one is on the inside. Now from here, this is 18. I'm speaking to the head of the Law Department, is your justice comforting? Do you sleep well when you put your head on the pillow? You tried to trim a half-year-old tree, and you were a tool for it. What kind of law is that? Is that the way to get justice? Is it possible to expect good from this land if justice has fallen so far in the land, and justice has been done in the name of the heart in this land? We're 18. When we think about how the Head of the Law Department, in this case, became the Head of the Department, we find that he pays a price when he elects a two-registered person to a five-man delegation because he uses them to be 18. He's the head of the legal department. My dear brothers and sisters, the honorable lawmakers; there are injustices down there as well. Someone once told me that the judges are stuck between their consciences and their wallets. Now, judges are trapped somewhere between their consciences and the government, and somewhere between their consciences and the police. In a province of the Black Sea, a decision is made for a businessman, who is being taken in as a member of the Black Sea. There is no such claim, that the court of justice has not reached the altar. Time passes, it's taken again, and it repeats it five times. Now, the judge of the court of justice, who made this decision, is appointed as a severe criminal justice this time, and the same case comes before him as a severe criminal leader, and he decides to arrest him this time. I know he's innocent, but if we let him go, the cops will tell us this time: "We hold him, the judges let him go." With such fear, will justice be served? With such fear, can these judges really be fair? We're calling the authorities from here, as I've just told you, the victims of once-in-a-lifetime are victims today. To avoid this situation, you must remove whatever obstacle lies ahead of you at the point of justice. People are restless, we burn a lot of age along with the dry. You've made a decision, he's applying for a pilgrimage, you're investing money, you're giving him five banks, there's Bank Asia in these banks, and he's taking them here because they don't cost money, but now you're judging him, why did you invest money in Bank Asia? When he gives a government official a five-cent raise, he's having a field day. E, this is the highest interest rate, he took it, he deposited it, he took interest. Bank has nothing to do with asianism or asianism, or this, or that; now, you're arresting them. If you don't make the distinction here, believe me, you won't be able to reach any conclusions beyond bringing people into the fight against ▪. That's why we're alerting all the authorities from here. On the other hand, the chiefs, the managers, defaming the men whose eyes he doesn't like, who he doesn't believe are his own, who have suspended him, causing him to export. I wish this injustice, this injustice, to be resolved at once, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit02spe0075par0220	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0075par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr Mehmet Erdogan will speak. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] You've been talking for thirteen minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0076par0009	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Security Board and Undersecretary of Prime Ministerial Intelligence of the Central Management Budget Act of 2017. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation and the holy Turkish nation who are watching us on their screens. At the beginning of my words, I bless our country and our nation's martyrs who have been saving our lives, wishing our veterans a good life, thanking our security forces who have fought abroad and abroad to eradicate terror. May God help and protect our heroic security forces. Dear lawmakers, on the night of July 15th, we faced a very serious national invasion attempt. We need to read this thing very correctly, learn the right lessons so we don't have to relive it. In the intervening period of July 15th, everyone was in a hurry to get what's in their name, what's in theirs, and what's in theirs, and that takes us away from the core. The July 15 coup attempt, led by the Fetullahist terrorist group, aims to divide and destroy Turkey, pitting the Turkish nation against each other and dynamite our 1,000-year-old brotherhood. However, that night, Mr. President of the State Gardens came to his office ahead of everyone else, as usual, my country and my nation, then my party. He applied his motto once again at this difficult time. Actually, I don't think personal heroic deductions about July 15th are helpful. Because, on the night of July 15th, the political institution, the press-journalist -- I want to stress this in particular, if it weren't for the people in the Turkish army who were loyal to democracy, state, nation -- that night our work would have been difficult -- the police, in short, our entire nation has shown a national stance. I don't think anyone has the right to shadow this entire national stance. Dear MPs, after this entry, I'd like to share with you some of my concerns and opinions. The state's institutions have been taken one by one by the Fetullahist terrorist organization for years, as they have been on their way to July 15th. What did MIT do in the process? How much of what he had to do? On the night of July 15th, why didn't Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister reach the Undersecretary of MIT? What was done after July 15th? Now, I would like everyone to listen carefully and reflect on the questions I'm going to ask at this very moment. 1) On July 15th, what institutions did the MIT deliver its information on the movements? 2) On the night of July 15th, have the reasons why the Prime Minister and the President failed to reach the Undersecretary of the MIT? 3) How many times did Mr. Prime Minister meet with his MIT Undersecretary after July 15th? Or it's been claimed that he hasn't seen each other in a long time. What are the reasons for that? 4) In particular, those of military origin we have listened to at the July 15th Impact Initiative Research Commission complain that there has been no reports of military sources related to ▪ so far. Is the information not gone because it's gone, or hasn't this information been delivered to relevant institutions? What are the reasons for that? 5) Did the Prime Minister ever wonder? Or is he too busy quickly depriving the Prime Minister and getting rid of these troubles? Of course, he's already Prime Minister and he's in charge, and although no one can answer, history itself will answer for it. 6) On the night of July 15th, who is the council of the peace in the dorm that reads the declaration? 7) Who are the political extensions and political supporters of this so-called council? 8) It is mentioned that the resources used by Å construction have reached serious numbers. Recently, the TMSF (TMSF) has decided to seize many companies. Has the government's responsible institutions, such as MIT, MASAK, BDK, ever noticed any of these money movements? What did he do if he saw it? I believe that all the details of the financial resources used by ▪ should be presented today. The 9) has not been able to reach a list of users who have been using by Lock since July 15th, the midwife, the nurse, the teacher, the judge, the doctor, the police, the military, the governors who appointed them, the general managers, the undersecretaries and ministers. When will senior bureaucrats and politicians be reached? 10) Why has it not been available to the mayors who have so far assigned the land they want? All of this needs to be seriously focused on, and these dark spots need to be illuminated. For the rest of the time, I suggest that we consider the following proposals not to have a new July 15th: 1) The rule of law must be established, and everything that is done must be done within the law. Anyone who has been wrongfully discharged or suspended must be removed immediately. 2) All terrorist elements within the state must be wiped out. 3) In the state, integrity, driver's license, and loyalty to the state should be brought forward, and it should be no more than a measure to come to any authority within the state. 4) When dealing with a parallel, the field must not be opened to new parallels. At this point, the measure presented by Mr. Ali Küpoğlu, the former chairman of the Religious Affairs Committee, which we heard at the July 15th Impact Initiative Research Commission, is very remarkable. If someone says, "I am a congregation." And only if he is engaged in religion, there is no need to be preoccupied with it, but someone says, "I am a congregation." If he is interested in other than religion, politics, business, staffing, education, and other public activities, they need to be carefully monitored and controlled. New terrorist organizations should not be allowed to appear in public. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we have an institution that needs to evaluate every aspect of the threats our country is facing inside and out. This institution is the National Security Board. It is also clear that our country is facing serious dangers inside and out, but instead of dealing with Turkey's agenda, the National Security Council, unfortunately, is busy Turkey with virtual agendas. Public statements from the National Security Council meetings during a period of extraordinary developments in Turkey's geography are not capable of explaining Turkey's reality to our nation. It would be wise to question the details of how the national security board decisions were subjugated. In its book, then, Deputy Prime Minister Omar Dinçer has made it clear how the National Security Council in 2004 was able to suppress its decision, but why did the National Security Council not take into account or take into account the incident that was a danger to our country after 2004? Why did the National Security Council not give warnings about the betrayal process? Why did he not take the measures needed to be taken in time, especially by making the necessary assessments of the developments in our very close geography, and as a result, our country had to host millions of refugees? Why hasn't the National Security Council ever made the necessary assessment of border security? While it is clear that terrorist organisations are using serious resources to sustain their activities, why have the necessary assessments of the draining of resources used by terrorist organisations not been made on the National Security Council so far? Mr. President, there's another thing that comes to mind when you say budget, is projection for the future, but also account for the past. All government officials who stand on the stand cry out, "There's nothing we can't account for." However, the use of covered funds during the AKP administration has increased exponentially. The first question that comes to mind is, since you have nothing to account for, why is so much money spent on things that can't be answered for? Covered funds aren't meant to cover pleasure, covered funds aren't meant to hide waste, covered funds aren't meant to fund irresponsible authorities. Therefore, the use of covered funds must be reduced and the transparent spending of budget resources. Mr. President, our country is on the brink of economic crisis as well as social chaos. For the government to live, people have to live. There are two basic things about people's lives. One's security, the other's economics. I've just tried to express our concerns about security, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to briefly share my thoughts on the economy with you with examples from my own constituency, Mughla. Everyone, especially Mr. President, calls our nation to cash in their currency, but in 2016, my electoral district did not earn enough money to pay off its debt to tourists or farmers or tradesmen. If these people had money, they'd have paid their debts before they could get the money. There is a remarkable sale of property in our district today. That's how our citizens tried to pay off their debts. Unfortunately, tourism is over as a result of 14 years of wrong domestic and foreign policies by the government. We have repeatedly warned on the rise of dying tourism from this bench, but none of it has been taken into account. Businesses didn't make money because the sector couldn't work. Our people who work in the industry are out of work, and depending on that, all businesses in the tourism industry have been devastated. Tourism went back 30 per cent in 2015, according to 2014. In 2016, according to 2015, the tourism sector faced a new loss of around 45-50 per cent. This means that tourism revenues -- the most important local resource for closing the current deficit -- are over. Since our proposals have not been taken into account so far, the tourism sector does not offer hope for 2017 either. Again, as a result of the government's wrong foreign policies, we lost our markets of vegetables and fruit, which has left our producers helpless. Recently, we visited some vegetable fruits in our region, met with our manufacturers. In 2016, the producer who couldn't sell the pomegranate he produced cut down the pomegranate trees. Now in the field, lemon costs 15-20 cents, orange costs 25 to 30 cents, tomato 75 cents. I mean, the manufacturer can't even sell the product at its cost, which has left our manufacturers helpless. In this context, on 23 November 2016, the heads of all agricultural rooms in Mugla. They came to parliament and told us about the producers' problems. Well, in this case, would the 2017 budget be a cure for the problems that the farmer, the tradesman, the officer, our unemployed citizens, the tourist? Unfortunately, it seems impossible to talk about such a budget this year as it does every year. There is a need for domestic and national practice to address these issues in order to get out of an economic strait. Mr. President, I'd like to point out something very important before I end my remarks. Recently, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has become a wall of crying. Thousands of people from all over Asia Minor form long lines at the door of the Assembly, a very simple, clear indication of how desperate the human being is. The words of the power speakers, "Everything here is a rose of roses." It is not the answer to the problems of our citizens. If the citizen finds a cure for his troubles, what's he doing here? With these feelings and thoughts, I wish the budget of 2017 to be a blessing for our nation, for our state, and to greet you and our citizens who follow us on their screens.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0077par0039	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İstanbul MP Atila Kaya will speak. You want to talk, Mehmet Günal?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0078par0042	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0077par0043	Okay. Antalya MP Mehmet Günal will speak. Here you go, Mr. Günal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] There's no change in your time, is there, 20 minutes?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0079par0047	Sir, I'll do all the talking. I will speak for Mr. Atila, and the institutions behind her...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0077par0048	Then your time is 33 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0079par0050	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As Mr. President said about the time, we went out with our files, as usual, because I'm going to talk to Mr. Kaya, instead of Mr. Kaya. We can look very different from each other, but we can say it's kind of like humility. It contains three different dimensions of the problems we're experiencing today, the institutions I'm going to talk about. First, the budget for the President of Religious Affairs concerns a number of reasons in the background of the July 15 coup attempt that we're all discussing today, which is the spiritual aspect of the work. On the other hand, some issues such as lack of control, transparency, accountability, and accountability, which are the basis of the economic and social problems we face, include the Court's work on the use of the budget right of this Gazi Assembly, which is the most important right to the Supreme Assembly, or rather not being used. On the other hand, the Treasury, which represents all the assets of the Republic of Turkey -- on its name -- seems very different to talk about the budget of our undersecretary -- but I actually see it as completely different levels of problems today. First, I'd like to share some thoughts on the budget of our Ministry of Religious Affairs, and then I'll share my opinion with you briefly about other matters. Dear friends, the phenomenon of religion is a matter of interest, interpretation, debate, but the goal here is to complete human morality, moral maturity, and religion is the goal of religion. When we look at it with that understanding, it is a very important thing to understand religion, to speak it correctly. When religious education cannot be done properly through a methodical education, there is a possibility that religion, politics, religion and other areas will be mixed together. Unfortunately, we're having these problems today. In Turkey, education in religion on this subject is as a religious education and education is also being carried out by the Ministry of National Education, which conducts education and education, and other than that, the chairman of the Dianet Works, who conducts widespread religious education and education. In this case, I'd like to start by stressing from the beginning that the President of Religious Affairs for religious education is very important. I've said it over and over in the budget of the President of Religious Affairs, as we've been discussing a law of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the law of the organization. The authorities of our presidency are here. The ministers are often changing, but our presidents, vice presidents, members of the High Council of Religious Affairs are here, and they know that very well. Dear friends, based on the importance of this institution -- it has continued as an important institution in the Ottoman Empire -- since the establishment of the republic, Ataturk, the President of the Dianets -- which is an interesting thing to do within the same law as the Chief of General Staff -- the President of the Dianets' salary, and the status of the Chief of Staff, has envisioned a $5 extra salary to be paid to be put on a click by the Chief of Staff. Although it has been changed for some time, it is clear that after the 61 Constitution, after the 82 Constitution, it has achieved different status, so it puts it in a very important place. In the 1961 Constitution, we see that there is also a legal mandate in Article 154, and the status of the institution is maintained. In short, it continues here in the Constitution of 1982: the President of the Religious Affairs, in accordance with the principle of secularism, performs the duties shown in its special law by all political opinions and ideas and by the aim of national solidarity and integration. It is said that it is an instrument of national integration. There must be a means to maintain that solidarity, he says. Thus, it is an institution that must remain above all political views and ideas to provide it. The high principles of our religion, such as sacrifice and cooperation in certain matters, are also an institution that should embrace the spirit of unity and unity in our people, because it is one of the basic duties of this institution that we have considered to be to keep our citizens happy within the good moral code of Islam, to continue to work in a sense of religious and national responsibility, to stick to human and spiritual values, to the national ideals, to serve an active and widespread religion. After saying these things, of course, well, how long can he do them? Unfortunately, he can't fully function in the environment we live in today. Of course, right here on July 15th, Mr. President did a study, and he shared some things like the religious abuse report on the State of the Extraordinary Religion, but that's only about the part after the test was broken. So if I tell you a few headlines from the majors, then you'll know what I'm talking about. Article 3 (PDY) is an open act of religious abuse. In Islam, the invitation is made to God and the Holy Prophet. Call upon men, structures, and factions in the name of God, to deceive people by saying, "Allah," and to wrong religion is the greatest injustice. Article 7 (PDY) is a tephrica movement that breaks down the revelation of the Islamic community. The readings are correct. Article 12 (PDY) is a movement that engineers religion in the name of inter-religious dialogue and shatters the word. Right. So he's clearly said something important here: he's started shady attempts to provide interest and support for the public, to create sensitivity to the thesis of the conflict of civilizations, and to call it interdictional dialogue, and to call it "Islamic Islam" -- and that's exactly where I object, dear friends. He calls it against Muslims in the international world... with many mysterious and mysterious relationships. And just as we look at the recent developments in this world, what he said against the thesis of the conflict of civilization, he said to himself, "Islamic Islam" -- and I said to them, "Mr. Vice Presidents were there -- we wouldn't need this if we didn't understand that these are the structures that different elements have imposed on us -- as an extension of the Great Middle Eastern Project. When we have a Turkish Muslim civilization that has come from the imbibe of the coming years, while we have a Turkish Muslim civilization that has come from Buhara, Samarkant, from Yesi, from Imam Maturidî, from Yesevi, Hajji Bektas, from Yunus Emre, we will end up here when we have a culture that is based on a great Turkish Islamic civilization. That's why I'm saying this as a solution. The situation is good, but in accordance with the principles set by that religious Ataturk (Aaturk) for our people, under the conditions of that day, it would not be possible for us today to place so many members of our people who are aware that they are being used today. I'm afraid they're holding it today, and while I'm questioning it, I'd like to remind you, my dear friends, that there's been a great task for the President of Religious Affairs. Our friends are here. On the night of July 15th, many of our friends were here, and I was on the stand with my other friends from the moment we arrived. And then, they came from TRT, and they said, "What's the most important lesson for you, Hodja, that we have to get out of here?" And I said to them, "The most important lesson and responsibility falls to our president." Why? I wonder why. If we could really explain religion in the sense we're talking about, would it be possible for our officers, who have been trained officers for years, who have studied strategy and tactics, who have come to the level of staff, who are our generals, to go after a preacher? Or that our academics who have studied science for years, who have become professors, who have served as deans, who have served as rectors, have become like this with a directive, if we had really given them the education of religion, would they be able to be deceived like this? That means something's wrong. So, as a result, I'm saying that the President of Religious Affairs should review this structure. After the work is done, it's not enough to say that religion is a terrorist organization, it's important to look at their nesting. The chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs must, finally, remain above politics. As a state institution, as a public awareness board, we need this kind of work to achieve spiritual values, against globalization, against social values, as well as the development of a new generation that values human values, and our vision of 2023 leading countries and our 2053 long-term vision. For that, politics must remain superior. Finally, keep the change of politics. When you say that, you shouldn't discriminate between unions and employees. In the verse read in Friday's sermon, God commands us to act justly, to avoid evil. So we have to do it without looking at it or looking at it. There's been a lot of complaints. From time to time, Mr. President, we pass it on to the ministers, but it says to be fair among the staff of the institution, so I say good luck with the religious budget. Because I have to say something about the Court budget and the Treasury. Now, of course, our most important right as Congress, dear friends, is to use your budget rights now. The most important tool for budgetary rights we've discussed now is the Chairman of the Court. But I see it and I'm sad, dear friends, that I'm looking at the lines -- unfortunately, this is our budget -- the Court budget is being discussed today, but unfortunately my friends aren't paying much attention. So the ineffective court and its failure to send us the reports are accepted by all of us. We care, and I think they don't care about us. Why do I say that? Because our basic rights, dear friends, are budgetary rights. The Court, by its definition in the Constitution, is the most important institution of democratic and transparent state qualities in Turkey, and is an institution that we use through our budgetary rights. The most important principle of democratic governance is that all actions and procedures of the rulers are subject to inspection. I mean, control and democracy are inseparable. We need to exercise our rights within the great House, which is the center of democracy, the centre of the nation's will. In this context, some changes have been made in the Law of the Court under the name of a number of forms in the past, which unfortunately has been neutralized, and reports have been sent to us by the Report Evaluation Board, which I have called the Report Turning Reports to the Bird, which, unfortunately, has not been sent to the bird. I'll explain this in a moment, but it's the Court's duty, dear friends, to send them to the Supreme Assembly, where he has made these inspections. The Court is important for us, not because it oversees public institutions and institutions, but because it controls the budget rights of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's not just an inspection, but it's important because it's important for him to supervise and present his report to us on our behalf. And here we are, unfortunately, unable to do our audit authority because we don't have those reports that we need to use, and the Court has already been disabled by some work, bag of laws, but in a more dire way, now those reports have disappeared along with the cost of our budget. Now, we also have Law 5018, which we have never followed, and we have Law 5018, which we now call the Law, which we call the Law, and we have Law 5018, which we have never obeyed in any way when we have debated the laws of the Galathimarchic and the freaks in any way. There are two mechanisms, including internal audits and external audits on behalf of the TBMM, which are responsible for the accountability of the executives of public institutions, to provide transparency about all these institutions. The framework of external control activity from these audit activities is drawn in Law No. 5018 and is included in the Court's external control activities, as well as in the fiscal status and credibility of public administration's financial reports and paintings as well as in the financial and activities of the relevant institution. Now, let me remind you of a few things from the past: in 2012 -- since there were new revisions in 2010 -- before I go back there, it's always the beginning of the riots -- he sent 146 percent of the total 358 reports to the House; he filed 455 reports along with the KIT performance inspection reports. In 2013, he sent 157 kilometers of the total 400 reports to parliament, along with CIT reports and performance inspection reports, 455 reports. In 2014, 482 filed 698 reports, along with CIT reports and performances. Now, on September 8, 2016, he submitted reports on the Parliament for General Fitness Report, Foreign Control General Evaluation Report, Action General Evaluation Report, financial statistics and agencies. According to this, he submitted 211 Court reports on public administration, 45 of which are budgetary, 147 of which is private, 2 of which is Social Security, 9 of which are regulatory, regulatory institutions, and eight institutions that are not subject to 5018. Dear friends, both last year and this year, unfortunately, CSI audit reports, reports that need to be published, reports that need to be published on the website. Our friends come to the CSI Commission and inform them. There's one for us... just the Treasury -- now, I'm about to switch there -- there's a public business report, and these are one page -- so we're looking from there -- one page and a half, two pages, for example. The largest institutions were collected with just a balance sheet and made a report. There's no inspection here, there's a general report. Now, anything other than the general report of these public enterprises, unfortunately, hasn't come to us. There are no reports of 47 OSCEs. The Court does not explain them on the basis of Article 43, but on the back is Article 44, where reports will be announced to the public except under restricted circumstances, which is in Article 44, which unfortunately happens when you read part of the article and do not read part of it. There's more to it than that. Anyway, come on, they're coming, they're telling them, they're coming, they're coming, they're coming. We've got partial reports, we can find some of them, if we want, but reports on local administrations... there's details about our opposition to the Final Accounting Law, but any friend of ours can look at them, but let me tell you a few more about it. Reports of the local administrations never come to the TBM, dear friends. If you look at Article 38 of the Law on the General Evaluation Report of Foreign Control: The audit reports on public administrations reported by the Council and the Constitutional Court shall be submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with a general declaration of fitness, which means you must submit reports of all audited institutions involved in it. Here, just like the public business report, he's not doing anything other than a general report from the Office of the Mahalile Administrations. The Chairman of the Court receives a report prepared by the Ministry of Interior, sums it up from this, and offers us this. Now, dear friends, how do they do it? We have friends there who are so clever. He's trying to get past the law by law, there's a freak like that. In short, I'd like to present it to your attention. Dear friends, there is a clause 2/5 of the Law on Changes in the Court's Control Rule; here, (6) the joke will be informed not only to the TBM/, but to the parliaments of the relevant local administrations. See, the law says that the National Assembly of Turkey is given information. The regulations say: "When you send it to the municipal councils of the municipalities, you're finished." In other words, reports of control reports from local administrations are sent to the parliaments of relevant local administrations for information and purpose. The reports of the Turkish, local administrations are given to municipal councils and municipal administrations concerned with kidnapping, without being submitted to the TBMM. What's he saying now? Dear friends, as a result of the audits conducted in 2015, they wrote a statement saying that all institutions have been audited except the district's municipalities, the city's municipalities, the city's municipal administration, the municipality's municipalities -- all of them -- 71 per cent, the development agencies 100 per cent, except the district's municipalities. They've examined 185 municipalities and 51 county private administrations. Now I draw your attention to this: there are 68 positive views in 51 municipalities and 17 municipalities - 51+17; 68 in 185. We're going back, we're going back, we're going back; there's a conditional review for 127 municipalities and 34 municipal private administrations, which we don't approve of, but here's the thing, for six municipalities, the negative reviews for six municipalities, which are unapproved, are not available to us, and they've been reluctant to give us an opinion for one municipality. Now I'm asking: What municipalities are these? Why aren't we informed of this as Congress? Well, at least what kind of negative opinion was there... to avoid giving opinion is the hardest thing, my friends. So you can still understand what's conditioned, but it's the Court's refusal to give you an opinion, and there's nothing in it, and I can't say anything about it. So when we look at the general fitness statement here, there's the same thing. I'd like to talk to you about a few more things. I said our budget is being taken away from us. Dear friends, in general fitness notification, there are grants, subsidies, overfunds, budget expenses. Now, with a few words, I'd like to put it to your attention right now, I'm running out of time. For example, in general fitness notification, this is about funding transfer... our friends never see it, let them take a look. I mean, it's coming to us, but I don't know if it's coming to power or not, we can just look at it. There's a fund transfer and add part in it, and we're giving the Minister the power to transfer, rotate everything about it, but this authority for emergencies... there's numbers in it, if you want to look at it, in the additive 1. Dear friends, when we examine this table, there is no change in the total amount of grant transfer, decline and addition of the overall budgetary administrations, but there is about 30 percent in the total budget of public administrations added and reduced by these transactions, from 4.99% to 108.85 per cent -- you haven't heard of it -- and the average rate of change is 29.55 per cent -- I mean, when you look at the total amount of public administrations added and the amount of income added by the year's end-of-of-the-year sum of public administrations has been increased by about 30 per cent in 2015. Over 63 per cent of the top 15 institutions. Look, in the first 15 institutions -- and I'm telling you, friends -- as Congress, we've given $100 as the Plan and Budget Commission, and we said, "Except for what we gave you -- spend $63 of this over there. He's spent it somewhere else, he's spent it somewhere else. Now, there's something different about spending going to the right place, or receipts, or bills, that's another thing whether or not the funding for that project is being used for what we're offering. So your budget rights have been prevented. So, I'm here to present this to your attention. Why do we say that? So you're looking at over-funded things, 35.2 billion. It's 7.26 per cent of the budget. Unfortunately, 7.26 per cent of the entire budget is gone. So, why am I telling you, what's supposed to be normal? We set the limit, the reserve grant limit is 2 percent, the lawmaker, so it's an overpassable ratio. How many is this? 7.3%. So, our budget is going down. And, of course, when we look at the overheads, there's a total of 31.2 billion, besides the rotation. Nearly 20 billion of these belong to the Ministry of National Education. He's making a bag from there, he's transferring it from place to place. Unfortunately, we're losing our budget. Finally, here, dear friends, before we go to the Treasury, there's something else about our budget that also concerns the Treasury: the health ministry budget has arrived, our friends have looked at it, the minister's presentation is at the beginning of its presentation; we have a return capital freak. In all the Court's reports, there are criticisms of return capital businesses. There's a roughly $32 billion budget, and the Ministry of Health has about 32 billion -- 31 billion and so on. I mean, something has happened that we don't have any budgetary rights. In all institutions, spinning capitals are like a separate fiefdom. And there are criticisms about the expenditures. Yeah, we give more to doctors, but do we blow up things that aren't spending so we can give the institution more back capital? Where's he going? Who spends from here to where? I mean, we're talking 32 billion out of control. Therefore, this return capital issue must be resolved immediately by the Finance Ministry and the necessary legal arrangements must be made. He's still in the middle, we did it in the answers they gave to the Court. We're doing it. It's called working. Speaking of which, there's a weirdo about city hospitals. We're talking about the Treasury budget. The treasure guarantees it. Mr. President, everyone change your currency." he says. Sir, BIST cashed it, he cashed it. So, what do we do, how do we do our obligations? Bridge commitments, road commitments... we're guaranteeing patients at the city hospital, we're guaranteeing a fill-up rate, and that's on the dollar. How do we change it? We're telling everyone, okay, but in the next 20 to 20 years, we've committed to paying them billions of dollars, and on top of that, we've guaranteed patients. What about these? We need to look at these. And we need to seriously review the guarantees that the treasure is taking care of and direct them to more active areas. Sir, he wants a minister. Is that right? It's not. The Minister is here. We spoke to the Minister of Development. There's a draft bill for a public-private partnership that's been waiting for ten years, and someone hasn't been able to pick it up. The Ministry of Health does it separately, the Ministry of Tourism does it separately, the Privatisation Administration does it separately. Is that a thing? It's just like running a back-and-forth business. We need to contain all of this, direct our resources to the right areas. This time we're constantly committed to debt, we're committed to exchanges, and then when our foreign currency obligations go up, when our open position goes up, we're in trouble, so we have to solve these things radically, dear friends. Same thing... it's our job to warn you about all things, to encourage you right, to criticize wrongs. What we're saying here isn't any destructive, it's constructive criticism. I'll give you another example of the Treasury, which is here in the Court's reports, and we've already told the Minister, there are warnings about the Loan Guarantee Fund. There are warnings made by the Court concerning the operations of these things, and it is unclear to whom you give them to, and to whom you don't give them to. Our friends rushed in -- we don't have a commissioner, but our fellow commissioners are here -- in the middle of the night, in the middle of a bill, in the offer, in the bag. What is it? About the Credit Guarantee Fund, sir, we want another 2 billion. We've already given 2 billion. So we were wondering, in such a hurry, the owner, the need, our bag of laws... we're not talking about the book anymore, it's old. It's an institution that keeps bringing something in, and at the last second, we thought we'd take a look inside. We read his reason, and he says: "The new Export Loan Guarantee Fund is about to be used. " I ask my friends, is something like this set up, and we don't even know if it's happening because it's happening because we can't pay attention. Unfortunately, let's build a new institution on something like this, do it our way. All right. We said, "Okay." Yeah, well, the Council of Ministers has the authority to do that, one. Second, did you use the entire $2 billion we gave you? No. We said, "Bring me the root." We didn't come up with anything in a hurry. We said it later, and Mr. Secretary looked at it, and as a matter of fact, we showed the way, it's not our intention to criticize it here. They said, "What are we going to do?" Let the Council of Ministers come and use the Loan Guarantee Fund for exporters. Let's say, take it out with a Council of Ministers decision. Yes, they did, thank you, there are some issues missing, but again, the Council of Ministers has agreed on 30/10/2016, and it was published in the Official Gazette in November. The 2 billion is now standing by, and if they use it, it will be used to export it, and if it comes through Eximbank, it will pay 100 per cent of the Loan Guarantee Fund. So it's not all wrong what the opposition says, but when something's done that's missing, we said, "Why are you funding there again, why are you building a fund again?" On the contrary, we said that the Treasury should work under the budget discipline of funds, return capitals, otherwise it would be a waste of resources, dear friends, not to come here and there. Now, our biggest problem is... we say, when the fight starts, let's all sell the currency, let's go to TL. Is it enough? If we can't reduce those commitments, we can't increase our savings, we can't get out of it if we're constantly trying to fund consumption through currency. What do we need? We need structural measures, we need studies in the economy that will make them permanent. So we need to do these studies, not just about the bridge, but about the road, but about the city hospitals, and all of the Treasury's guarantees to pressure us, to increase our vulnerability to our foreign currency position; otherwise, we'll continue to talk about it. I mean, our major currency-profit industry is the tourism industry, and unfortunately, we haven't been able to get the legal arrangements for it. There was a general board of hotel owners last week, and Mr. Secretary was there, and Mr. Kilicdaroglu was there, and I was there, and we talked, and unfortunately we can't do that because we don't have a legal arrangement yet. First, we need to complete our gaps in foreign currency and assess the resources we have around here. So, considering these ideas that we have presented to you in a constructive view of opposition, I believe that our country should be more developed, that it should be a leading country in 2023, that it should be a superpower in 2053, that it should be collaborative in all matters, especially in the education of the Religious Affairs, and I hope that the budgets should be good luck.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0080par0085	Thank you, Mr. Günal. We will now listen to the speakers of the Republican People's Party Group. First, I'd like to call Mr. Ahmet Haluk Kokok, the Ankara MP, to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Coach. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0081par0091	Mr. President, thank you. Dear lawmakers, should we make a political assessment of the presidential budget as soon as we leave, or should we make a technical assessment on budget figures? But, uh, I think the commission's talking about the technicality. More of a need to make political evaluations. First of all, I salute you with love. My dear friends, history sets such examples that in some countries we see those who come out of the chest using fundamental rights and freedoms that democracy knows, they create an environment in which there will be no problem, no matter what, one step at a time, no matter how many fundamental rights and freedoms that bring them there. This is one of the examples in Turkey. What freedoms have we limited? These are examples. In Articles 101, 102, 103, 104 of the Constitution, about the presidential office, which, in parentheses, is a very important authority for the Republic of Turkey, I would like to remind you that everyone is at a very careful point when they're developing politics while they're occupying that office and doing it. In the Constitution, as I said, the legal situation was expressed in the articles. And then there's the fact that we're in a real situation. Unfortunately, it has nothing to do with the recipes in the Constitution that we live in today. I mean, according to the Constitution, the ministers and the Prime Minister are responsible. At this stage, the Prime Minister is making a great effort to eliminate his existence and transform the system into a presidential system. You're looking at the presidential office, it's described as irresponsible. However, an irresponsible person is today in Turkey both the President, the Prime Minister, the Speaker of Parliament, the Supreme Court, both the president of the Supreme Court, the doctor, the president of the sports federation, both the president of the association, and the president of the union, everything. (Applause from CHP rows) I am everything. He says, "You will accept it this way." He says, "I will not be held responsible for what I do." He says, "You will develop such a system." He says, "I will not be audited." He says, "This is how it's gonna go." He says, and Mr. Müezzinoglu, who has suffered for many years in West Thrace, who finally returned to his homeland, interprets it as his politics and interprets it in relation to the founder of the republic, which has nothing to do with. My dear friends, now, you see, what is politics's mission? The duty of politics is to bring actual situations into the rule of law. Now, what happened in Turkey is reverse reading. What is it? There's an actual situation, we can't bring it into the legal situation, so let's set up the legal situation based on the actual situation. Well, what should we do? Let us give him all the authority he wants, and let him not be audited, and let him not be questioned, and let him go free. My dear friends, I went there one day to start a war on Esad. He said, "I am there twenty-four hours later to fight against terrorist organizations there." How can any issue be entrusted to a person who goes to Libya in Libya the next day, saying, "What is NATO doing in Libya?" Look, it's February 4, 2015 -- I've been a party spokesman for four years -- after describing the only person I've ever described: February 4, 2015. In a nutshell, he means: "I have to establish a constant state of martial law with a new package, so that I can constantly impose a state of emergency on Turkey, so that whoever pursues concepts such as rights, justice, justice, freedom, and equality, I should be able to challenge them in some way, even follow their breathing. This is how Turkey is in the hands of a defective politician. I said as a party spokesman. [[Applause from CHP rows]] February 4, 2015, I wasn't given a subliminal message from God, where I didn't describe an act of real blow after a coup. I just described the person's expectations. My dear friends, look, everyone is anxious, let's share the truth, everyone is restless. It's probably my last term as a mission, and yours, too. I hope you'll continue, but at some point you'll stop. This unrest exists around you, and so do you. No one's sure about tomorrow. No one trusts me, everyone's nervous. As a political mission, you'll say other things, I understand that, but I'm telling the truth. When you look at it, it is now being tried to develop a political style in Turkey -- as I have just said -- as someone has been given a political position. We're looking at their old sayings. I'm not repeating myself. In contrast to their old rhetoric, politics is always shown at the end of reliable institutions in Turkey. My dear friends, based on this example, there's a lump of contradictions, a scene of regret, there's hypocrisy in politics, there's examples of politics, there's bad, there's surrendering, there's non-reliability, there's politics. I mean, we're going through all this. You can gather huge crowds -- there are examples of this in history -- with demonstrations and spectacular ceremonies, you can paint and impress everyone. In the media pools that you've created, you can confront anyone and institutions with assassinations of dignity. We see his samples every day. You can make whatever you want a traitor, any collaborator you want. You have those powers. You're using these rights. With your followers, you can play the unimaginable, the undisputed, the undisputed, the undisputed, you can continue to adjust to society in a great, all-knowing manner in every morning and evening, in every matter, in every matter, in every matter, in every matter. And the one who sees them might think you're really strong and consistent and unreachable. In fact, you're really afraid of all your actions, your illegalities, your irregularities, and your allegations of corruption. (CHEERING) You're really restless, you're nervous. And most of all, you fear one another, and you are anxious to see how Pandora's box is opened so that we can hold each other's tails. In summation, Turkey faces these impositions. Dear friends, as a sincere friend of yours, as a friend of yours who completes his 4th term, his 5th term, as a friend of yours who has served five years as the vice president of the group, at various points, let me say this sincerely: You are not doing Turkey any favors. You're not doing Turkey any favors, my dear brothers. This attitude, it's not appropriate. This is not an attitude that can defend Turkey's unity, its integrity. With such tides, Turkey will have to pay a much heavier price, with a single identity that seems to have been dealt with in the midst of any international relationship. This country, this country is all ours. Together, we are the rightful owners of this country. Together we have to strengthen our democratic parliamentary system as equal citizens of the Republic, sharing equal rights, sharing equal law. You'll do it wrong. You won't do Turkey any favors. There's no politics with stubbornness. There's no politics in the direction of one person. We have to use all sorts of mechanisms to develop the common mind. That's why there's Parliament. We must protect Parliament for him. For him, we need to develop parliamentary democracy. A Turkey entrusted to one person can't get out of trouble -- I'm telling you clearly. I hope those who need to make a quick self-criticism will make their own criticism and Turkey will get rid of it as soon as possible. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish you well, I give you my regards.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0082par0110	Thank you, Mr. Coach.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0083par0111	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0082par0112	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0083par0113	Mr. Speaker has given us some insights, particularly in returning to our desks several times during his speech, and in the interest of addressing us, he has given us some opinions that are not ours. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0082par0114	He didn't mention the name of your group.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0083par0115	He doesn't have to name our band. I mean, like, when you look into your eyes and you say something...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0082par0116	Yes, Mr. Akçay. Two minutes, please...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0083par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we listened very carefully to Mr. Kocok, who recently evaluated his views on the current active debates in Turkey. Of course, all opinions are respectable, and we have to have these arguments, and we have to do it and we will. It looks like we're going to have more of these discussions in the next few days. Dear friends, this is what we call a situation: in particular, since the President's election came in August 2014, we have all made clear to him that he does not recognise the Constitutional Court or its decisions, and, of course, he does not know the Constitutional Court. However, we must not enter from the actual situation into polymia and demagogy: One of the most important factors in the actual situation -- as the National Movement Party -- is the regulations for the irresponsibility of the President in the Constitution. For one thing, if there is a certain legal and political responsibility to the President in the Constitutional Amendment coming in the coming days, it will also be constitutionally possible to end the actual situation. Secondly: Mr. Coach, you have to explain to whoever gave you the assignment, who, by God, had said something about us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The National Movement Party is a political party that implements only its principles and its rights, its right policies.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0084par0126	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0083par0127	Otherwise, I'd like to continue to take advantage of the chaos. If you say so, let the financial situation continue. If you say so, we may have something to say about it. Thank you, everyone.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0084par0130	Mr. Akçay, thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0085par0132	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0084par0133	Let's take turns, Mr. Coach. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0086par0135	In his speech, Mr. Coach meant us by saying that those who came to power under the power of freedoms were swept away and dragged towards an authoritarian regime in the next period. This is an open taunt, I want a promise.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0084par0136	Here, let's give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0087par0137	I swear, Mr. President, I didn't mean anyone.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0084par0138	Well, of course, Mr. Coach, there are things that are taken on by you for addressing the General Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0088par0141	Mr. President, dear friends, Mr. Haluk has expressed his criticisms in a most elegant manner that we disagree with, and we thank him first and hope that he will be present in our Parliament later on. As we speak here, you speak your mind, and I speak the truth. Ideology is something like that, it presents itself as a dub of nature. I speak the truth, and so do you, expressing your views. Mr. Haluk, you're actually saying what you think. In the end, people listen to all their opinions and make a decision. The ones who came out of the chest and came to power with freedoms, then they'd make a pass at them. There are those who build it, and they destroy the chest, Haluk Bey, the examples of history. There's a crate today, and it'll be tomorrow. We're all gonna take care of that crate, of the nation's will, just like we did on July 15th.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0089par0144	You removed the chest in the presidential election, Mr. President, in the presidential election!
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0090par0145	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0088par0146	He has brought a criticism that he has committed all kinds of duties regarding the President and that he has performed them. After the change of 2007, a President elected by the people for the first time in 2014...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0091par0147	The universe was chosen.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0088par0148	When the public begins to choose, the President is now a political figure and, of course, has to express his views on politics, everything. There'll be someone else tomorrow, I assure you, and you'll find that he's explaining his views in the same way that he's running this business in a public way.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0092par0149	Who's driving, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0088par0150	The presidents speak their mind, but everyone does their duty, and all of that is within the law.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0093par0151	What duty does the President have not to recognise the Constitution? Is it the President's duty to challenge the Constitution?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0088par0152	You have to pay attention to these. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0094par0155	Thank you. Mr. Coach, let me hear you out.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0095par0157	Sir, both the speakers have made some statements by mentioning my name. Naturally...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0094par0158	But they didn't pick on you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0095par0159	I didn't pick on him either, sir. I used a very careful tone, I didn't pick on you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0094par0160	There's been some bullying, but Mr. Bostanci and Mr. Akçay, I've listened...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0095par0161	Since my name's been called, I'd like to answer for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0094par0162	Mr. Coach, just a minute. Your name can be said here, the names of all MPs. You've been acting group president, you know, and you know better than we do. If you've been used by name and bullied, you'll be promised here.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0095par0164	Sir, my name was used, I mean...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0094par0165	But right now Mr. Akçay and Mr. Bostanci have also used your name, yes, but he hasn't made an attempt on his own.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0095par0167	They said my name with different meanings than what I wanted to say.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0094par0168	Oh, well, here's two minutes, of course. We're talking to each other, Mr. Lawmakers, so don't tire yourself out. Here you go, Mr. Coach.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0096par0173	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, allow me to make this assessment: The hardest task in politics is to face the problem of expressing political views that you don't believe in in in your position. I also evaluated Mr. Bostanci and Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0097par0176	You guys sound like you've been here too long.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0096par0177	That's my opinion, and you can stand up and sing here. If you have an opinion, they'll give you their word that you're a very valuable asset.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0098par0178	Mr. Coach, please, don't cause any more bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0096par0179	My dear friends, now, I have respect for Mr. Akçay, I have respect for both of them, and I have respect for the political parties our friends represent. What I'm saying is, it's obvious what your party said when the presidential system was discussed before.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0099par0180	Okay, same again.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0096par0181	It's obvious what he's saying, it's not the same. I point out this contradiction, and I say you won't do Turkey any favors. There's nothing bad here, there's a fix. I mean, what's the criticism of saying that, what's bothering you? Now that you've said it yourself, there's a constitutional table, and there's an actual situation. E, the regulations don't fit in this Constitution, it doesn't fit in the law. You say, let's develop a new law. I say that's not the job of politics. So, five more didn't fit in tomorrow, so we're gonna give them a new law, a new law? Mr. Akçay, that's what I'm saying. The job of politics is to draw the actual situation into the legal situation, the rule of law, that's clear. (CHP cheers) That's the definition of democracy. The foundation of democracy is the concept of the legal state. That's what I'm saying, I pointed out the political contradiction for him, and I made it very clear that you wouldn't do Turkey any favors. As for what happened earlier, there are so many freedoms that you haven't touched anything, and we're having trouble breathing from freedom of the press. It's so free all around, freedom too much, like too much oxygen. So you want me to be sarcastic, Mr. Botanci? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0100par0185	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0101par0186	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0100par0187	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0101par0188	It's obvious that in a taunt...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0100par0189	He made a statement, Mr. Coach. Congressmans, I can promise you an eternity, you're the vice president of the group, and I'd very much like to, but we have an agenda, and we have to follow it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0101par0191	Mr. President, if you're a clerk...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0100par0192	I'll listen to you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0101par0193	Okay.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0100par0194	Please, I'd like you to take care of this and follow this matter with precision. Here, let me hear you now, Mr. Akçay. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0102par0198	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all again. We're the National Movement Party, we don't talk about anything else yesterday, not today. Whatever we said yesterday, we're saying the same thing. In my speech on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group from this platform yesterday, we, very clearly, have expressed our support for the multiparty, democratic, legal parliamentary system as the National Movement Party, and we stand by that statement a thousand times. As of now, it is almost as if creating an argument in the dark or in the murky water, only a lot of speculation and demagogue is being done over a Constitution proposal that has not yet been submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and has only been estimated on it. So we don't defend something we don't believe in. Tomorrow, when he comes, we'll share what's being defended and what's not being defended with our entire nation. But there has to be some kind of chaos. I do. Any priors? I do. Does he need to be put in a legal position?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0103par0202	There are no verbs, there are crimes, there are violations of the Constitution, President.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0102par0203	He needs to be moved. But, I understand it so well that, I mean, the conflict of this chaos, this actual situation...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0103par0204	There is a violation of the Constitution, there is no actual situation, there is a violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0104par0205	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0102par0206	...there must be some satisfaction, a situation they're satisfied with, and no argument is being developed.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0103par0207	Mr. President, there is a violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0104par0208	Mr. Tanal, I didn't promise you anything.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0102par0209	Therefore, we will discuss these discussions further in the coming days on the legal and constitutional ground. I mean, instead of constantly arguing with the National Movement Party about it...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0104par0212	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0102par0213	You should also review your work with the separatist elements of your various rallies.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0104par0214	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0105par0215	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0104par0216	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0105par0217	Just for the record... When Mr. Haluk Coach spoke earlier, I spoke the truth, and you spoke your opinions. In the same way, you keep saying what you don't believe. And here I am, telling the truth again. To make an assessment of it, to read it, and to criticize it unfairly. In order to strengthen his views, the opposite is, in a sense, a language that does not say what he believes, and is trying to put it into a profile that he speaks as a duty, a dirty language. Just for the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0106par0220	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0107par0221	Congressmans, you know I have a measure. Let's hear it for you, and hopefully we'll get this over with before we take that precaution.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0106par0223	I mean, I didn't use a dirty language, as Mr. Bostanci put it. I spoke with a word that was very careful of its language. I'd like to make a statement about that. It's about my direct name.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0107par0224	Mr. Coach, why don't you do it in your place?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0106par0225	Sir, Mr. Akchay used it, so I'll use it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0107par0226	Well, let's make you a promise. I'm being as sensitive as I'm supposed to be to avoid any tensions, but please, I'm expecting the same sensitivity from you, again. Here you go, Mr. Coach.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0108par0230	Mr. President, there's no tension, don't worry. Why would someone show up on the stand with such a smile? Why would they be nervous? Why would they be nervous?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0107par0231	We're making an effort. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0108par0233	Mr. Bostanci, as he just said, the ruling party's deputy leader is doing his duty. Hopefully, when he writes his memoirs, he will view his political position in this period the same way that I was doing the right thing. In this way, we've seen a lot of their expressions, their regrets, our friends who've served at certain points before. I hope I'm not...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0109par0234	Do you, Mr. Haluk? Have you written your memories?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0108par0235	Maybe. I'm a friend of yours who knows how to make self-criticism in my party, who knows how to evaluate it within the rules; I'm the one who learned that politics should not be broken, and I didn't swear. I'm a stand-up guy where my party goes wrong.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0110par0237	Did he do it wrong?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0108par0238	I suggest you don't be so submissive.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0111par0240	Then they'll have to act all the time, Hajji. They'll have to act all the time.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0112par0241	Dear Yfriend...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0108par0242	As for Mr. Akçay... My dear Akçay, I have a different respect for you, I have love for you. Mr. Master is my fellow citizen, my friend next to you. I just visited him in Samsun. We had tea together. I'll talk to your community very closely, too, when I was a former MP in Samsun. Now, let me put it this way: I think in the process, you talk less, you wear yourself out less.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0113par0245	Make it less exciting, and we'll talk less.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0114par0246	Mr. Coach...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0108par0247	Now, look, the actual situation... look, I took notes...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0114par0248	Mr. Coach, look, you're causing some new bullying. I asked you specifically. Please...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0108par0249	Mr. President, you're not on my side. I'm talking to Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0114par0250	Please, don't cause any new insults.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0108par0251	Let me talk to him.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0114par0252	If you'll take my advice, I'll let you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0108par0253	What's the verdict, Mr. Akçay? The final situation is incompatibility with the Constitution, not to be within the limits of the Constitution. That's the idea, isn't it? Then what is the duty of the state of law? The task of the legal state is to strengthen parliamentary democracy if parliamentary democracy is injured here; on the contrary, it is not to reward the person who created the actual situation for creating it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's what I wanted to say. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0115par0258	Thank you for the understanding group of vice presidents. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0116par0260	I'd like to make a brief statement from my position.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0115par0261	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0116par0264	Mr. President, for me -- as Mr. Coach put it -- Mr. Akchay is very powerful in exchange with Mr. Akchay, both from our constituency and our history with each other, but what the National Movement Party said yesterday -- says today. When he said that there was a debate about the appointment of a chancellor, there was a very clear and correct attitude. Whatever came about that day's proposal for the presidency was put in the Constitutional package today. On that day, Mr. Akçay, this is an extremely problematic situation, an application that will only occur in dictatorships. It is not possible to accept it, this motion must be made. We all applauded when we said it, but the text their party accepted today contains the same clause concerning the appointment of chancellor. Now, in this case, it's hard to describe himself as not being inconsistencies, but we call the actual situation today the Republican People's Party: someone has violated our democracy, as we have lived in the past, and now you're saying: Let's marry democracy to the rapist and forgive them. It's not possible for us to do that.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0115par0266	Mr. Special, look, I'm trying to drop the issue on the agenda, and the group vice president of both parties responds with precision to my request and warning. I invite you on the agenda, trying to make it another agenda from another subject. Please, don't do that again.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0116par0267	What's that got to do with anything? They're discussing the situation, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0115par0268	I mean, we're not arguing whether Mr. Akçay is consistent or not.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0117par0269	What's that got to do with anything? It's a budget meeting.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0115par0270	We all know Mr. Akçay. You're a witness to how consistent he is in politics, and I'm a witness, please. [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!]
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0118par0271	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0119par0272	It's a verb, Mr. President. It's a verb. It's a verb.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0115par0273	Mr. Akçay, come in, I'm listening. I don't know why you're messing with the person.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0120par0275	Mr. President, now, Mr. Coach... Come in, Mr. Akçay, I know your motive. Two minutes... Now, I think college professors and teachers have a habit, and I would advise Mr. Coach to speak a little. Or talk a lot. I would advise him not to give advice like that. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0121par0281	Since it's short notice, we've barely...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0120par0282	As many MPs speak at the Turkish Grand National Assembly as possible, it should not be disturbed. Now, when this arrangement came about university rectors, I said it wasn't true, and I feel the same way. Now, what powers, such as this legal, constitutional proposal, are being discussed. They will, of course, be given a form after the debate at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's better not to be biased already, I see a little biased. But the choice of university presidents has been very controversial, as we call it, since long ago. We all know how democratic it is, how controversial it is. However, with an State of Emergency arrangement, by decree of the law, it is not yet clear whether this will become a temporary arrangement or a continuous practice, and it is open to debate, and I would also like to say that I am opposed to the appointment of one person to be president or director of the university. It is clear that it is necessary to build an autonomous structure in the life of university and science, in line with the autonomous structure that the university should have. Over the years, the debate has gained depth again recently. It is also useful to continue these discussions. I didn't change my mind. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0122par0285	Thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0123par0286	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0122par0287	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0123par0288	Mr. President, Mr. Special is not a criticism of the analogy of the rapist of democracy. His criticisms on these issues are expressed in a variety of ways by the People's Republican People's Party (CHP). That's an extremely dirty analogy. That's what I'm saying, for the record.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0122par0289	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0124par0290	We condemned it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0125par0291	Dear...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit03spe0122par0292	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0122par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Charter. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Executive Account for 2015 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2015 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2017 2) Prime Ministership Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The President of the Religious Works' Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) The Head of Religious Affairs 2015 Central Management Terminate Account RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasure 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account The commission is in place. The government is in place.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0126par0054	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0122par0055	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0126par0056	Now, you've just -- of course, you've already given your signal -- you said: "I have things to do, too. " Then you shut down the session, and so my ability to respond to that criticism that Mr. Naci had done.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0122par0057	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0126par0058	Otherwise, it's something I have to answer from the stand, but in order to get it into the transcripts, I'm telling you that it's been used in a dirty language, and it says that it's condemned. In order for the language we use here to be a dirty language, the word "rape" there must be used in the first sense. However, there is no doubt, for example, that it is a violation of authority or legal use of the president's powers when it is mentioned by ministers or ministers of parliament. I was amazed that it was understood like this. For the record, today we're talking about a violation of authority over the office of the President and the office of the President in Turkey, and a violation of Parliament, and we're going to continue to state that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0127par0062	Thank you, thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Tekin Bingöl will now speak. Here you are, Mr. Bingöl. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0128par0067	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to start by referring to some of the problems of our colleagues, who work together, who have always supported us with self - sacrifice in the Parliament study. The House, unfortunately, has taken on a characterization of inequality and injustice for employees. Unfortunately, Congress has eliminated business peace through its practices on staff. Today, four different types of staff are employed in Parliament, but with an abusive understanding, 4/C and subcontractor labor have become the permanent employment policy of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This does not suit the Parliament, which should really be an example to other institutions. So much business has been raised that when grown Parliamentaries resigned in unrest, subcontractors have been employed in their place. The subcontractorial labor status is the exploitation of labor, and the exploitation of labor is never suitable for this Parliament. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, Parliamentary employees have very different problems. Parliamentary workers who do the same work can receive different wages, they can't receive end-of-work compensation, and if they are unemployed, they can't receive unemployment fees. Look, we all have consultants, group advisors, they've been working under this Parliament with great sacrifice, but they have no guarantees; they have no senior security, no workers' safety, no guarantees. Our friends never deserve this. Dear lawmakers were removed in 2003 due to the savings of parliamentary workers' services. It's tragic. Why? Because those Parliament staffers work with us on weekends, sometimes in the morning. They don't even get a service. Parliamentary employees, on the other hand, deserve to be resolved by cash or service. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the Parliament staff has a lot of problems, believe me. We've been hearing something recently, and it's a disturbing event, and I especially want to get the attention of the Speaker of Parliament, who is being pressured by some bureaucrats to move to a supporting union in Istanbul, with the name of Mr. Speaker's name on it. We're warning you from this: if this becomes real, if this deepens, Mr. Speaker doesn't take care of it, we're going to go on this stand, we're going to name those bureaucrats one by one, and under it, Mr. Speaker stays, and I want to put it this way. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, July 15th, I wish the Speaker were here so we could remember it together. When we came to Parliament that night, Mr. Speaker, I wanted to come down from the stand and open our arms and give you a kiss of democracy. That night, the MPs from different parties gathered here and in the bunker as if they were friends for 40 years, and we put together this spirit of unity, this spirit of solidarity, this spirit of solidarity, in Parliament. We gave long talks, and then four political parties came together and wrote that historic declaration, and the Speaker of Parliament signed it. But what happened? The common spirit created here, not in the new door, has been destroyed by the hand of the Speaker of Parliament and by the government. It was a serious chance for Turkey, dear lawmakers. If that spirit had continued, if that culture of reconciliation had dominated this Parliament, maybe we wouldn't be talking about these problems today. Mr. Speaker has made serious questioning of law enforcement and control duties of lawmakers with two basic tasks. In fact, Mr. Speaker is obliged to maintain the dignity and dignity of this Parliament and its MPs. Is he doing this? Never. Mr. Speaker is busy with other things. What's the Speaker doing? He's stopping our kids from receptioning here on April 23rd. What's the Speaker doing? Let secularism be removed from the Constitution. He utters the most profound proverbs, and in recent days, the Speaker of Parliament is busy posting pictures of Ataturk. This would never suit the Speaker and that bench. I remind you, Mr. President, that Sultan Abdulhamit Khan, whom you are pursuing, did not put you in that chair; he sat you in the will of this republic and the will of the people, which Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends formed after the fight for national salvation. (CHP cheers) You have to do what's right for him. Look, unfortunately, in this Parliament, MPs are being arrested, parliamentarians are being attacked inside and out, the parliamentarians are being emptied of their control duties, but the Speaker isn't busy with them, the Speaker is busy with other things. In this parliament, pressure, terrorism, violence, monotheism, unfortunately, this Parliament Speaker has put it on the agenda of Parliament. However, if this Parliament Speaker had taken a different approach to his employees and lawmakers, with an understanding that strengthens the reputation of parliament and lawmakers, he would have made that positive approach to history. Unfortunately, the Speaker will go down in history as a Speaker of Parliament, who has not turned his face to the members of Parliament, who has discredited the parliamentarians. That makes us sad, my dear friends. Today, lawmakers and Parliament have also been severely discredited abroad, which was done by the Speaker of Parliament. The Speaker will, of course, take trips abroad, but he must return and address these issues in Parliament first. Who's he busy with, Speaker? Conferences are busy organizing panels; they're doing 200 to 300 years of hangouts; they're doing what they're doing behind their own head. This Parliament does not deserve this, my dear friends. The MPs can't do their audit duty. The MPs can't hold a press conference with their guests. Lawmakers can't see their own proposals, question proposals, research proposals -- a previous practice -- on their websites; citizens and NGOs are being prevented from seeing them. A completely illegal understanding has been ruled by Parliament. April 23rd is banned. Parliamentaries, lawmakers, are banned from holding press conferences, and the chain of prohibitions, unfortunately, prevents lawmakers from doing more productive work. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the Speaker must do one thing; he must continue with an understanding that will further raise the reputation of these Parliamentary and lawmakers, which is his primary duty. We came here on the night of July 15th, not because of the coup, not because of the pressure, not because of the pressure, but because we care about the choice, but what happens now? All this is being ignored. We opposed the coup that evening because we cared that both the President and the Prime Minister, the government and all the MPs were elected. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We opposed it on July 15th, just as we opposed it before. From now on, I'm saying we're going to stand up to the coup with the same understanding, a understanding that protects the Republic, internalizes democracy, and I give you all respect.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0129par0088	Thank you, Mr. Bingöl. Mr. Aydýn asked for a word. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0130par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. In his speech, Mr. Bingöl made a series of unfair statements about our Speaker of Parliament. Well, first of all, the language we use is very important. We may all have individual mistakes as human beings, but the way we're going to use them is also very, very important. First of all, as lawmakers, this nation has put us all in these seats. The President of the House has been put in that seat by our beloved nation. He sat in that chair with our nation, with the election of lawmakers in the General Assembly, and he's giving the seat his dues, one. Second: Protecting the reputation of parliament and lawmakers, of course, is one of the most important duties of the Speaker, but as MPs, not only of the Speaker, but of each of us, each of us has to protect the reputation of the MP, and we have to. And we all have to pay attention to the reputation of the House. The words we use, the statements about our MPs when they stand on that stand, all the words we speak about the will of the nation, every word is important to the legislature and the reputation of the Assembly, and every member of parliament must pay attention to that. There have been press statements from our Speaker regarding many of the issues you've said. I won't go into matters one by one, but I must say that in order to protect the honor of this nation, to preserve the dignity of this House, and to show that sovereignty is in the unconditional nation, it is the Speaker of Parliament who opened the doors and opened the House as soon as he received the news of the coup that night without consulting anyone. That needs to be known. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) And in the same way... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We've all seen the courage, determination, posture of that Speaker, and we'll continue to see it very well.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0131par0100	Mr. Aydın, I'm going to turn on your microphone, please pick it up.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0130par0101	Again, dear friends, republic, democracy, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk are the common values of this nation, the values that this nation has internalized.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0132par0102	Salam alaikum!
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0130par0103	Not only do these values seem to be in the code of a certain group, it does not promote these values, it reduces these values. I'm saying, please, let's not be political about common values. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0133par0105	Let your Parliamentary President respect Ataturk. There is no need for anything else.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0134par0106	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0135par0107	Mr. Bingöl...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0134par0108	Mr. Aydın has confirmed some of the issues I'm talking about, but has made statements that have nothing to do with certain issues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make this clear.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0135par0109	There's no bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0134par0110	Okay? There's bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0136par0111	There's teasing, there's bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0137par0112	I spoke about the Speaker, not you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0138par0113	He talked about the Speaker, so there's no personal bullying involved.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0139par0114	He made some indications, except that I mentioned my name.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0140par0115	All right, here you go, two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0139par0119	First I thank Mr. Aydın, we can make some mistakes. At least he accepted some of his mistakes. Secondly...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0141par0120	That goes for everyone, you'd be surprised. I mean, I said you guys made a mistake, too.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0139par0121	Mr. Aydın, if you'll listen... I have listened to you in silence. You're the Deputy Speaker, it's beneath you to say anything.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0142par0122	Mr. Bingöl, please... Mr. Aydın, I'd like to ask you. Here you are, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0143par0125	In my speech, I stated that the Speaker of Parliament, like all of us, came here on the basis of the Parliamentary democratic system and the will of the people, and I said, "We came here that evening to defend that will, to defend this Parliament." Only the Speaker didn't come; rather, before the Parliament Speaker, our CHP MP friends arrived, and Mr. President instructed us as soon as we got off the plane, all the MPs in Ankara said, "Go to Parliament at all costs." And we all came here because of that directive. There was a very different atmosphere here, so I'll remind my fellow AKP MPs who live here once again. There was a sense of harmony there, and I remember him, and I say, "Take care of it." It's not too late. If you reach a compromise in this Parliament, if you provide a common understanding in this Parliament, you will clear the way for Turkey; this will fall to you, this will fall to the government, this will fall to the Prime Minister, and it will fall to the Speaker of Parliament. Well, does the Speaker do what he's supposed to do? He never does. What's wrong with what I'm saying, lawmakers? I said April 23, right? I said the posters of Ataturk, right? Is what I'm talking about in secularism wrong? I've said a lot of things, it's all history, and you can't destroy them. Mr. Speaker -- as if it were his duty -- attacks on Che Guevara, a folk hero, and then he has to come back and apologize. I understand his explanation, because of his radical and activist identity in the past and youth, he may speak to Che Guevara, but I say he would never dare to destroy the values of this Parliament. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0144par0129	Thank you. Mr. Bingöl, Mr. Aydın said the same thing. This is a Parliament founded during the Battle of Salvation, a parliament that lived on the night of July 15th, where we all witnessed it. We're all aware of that, I believe. I also believe that my friends who were here will not forget or forget that night. As lawmakers who lived the night, we are also responsible for protecting the reputation of the House, and it is the most important tool for the protection of the House's reputation. Yeah, we can criticize each other, we should criticize each other. But I'm stressing that I'm in favor of dealing with problems through dialogue. If it's about the dignity of the House, I'd like to ask you, as acting Speaker of the General Assembly, to make the language we're using more constructive.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0143par0133	Mr. President, what I'm saying is extremely constructive, I'm talking about facts.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0145par0134	Mr. President, we arrived before the Speaker that evening, the Speaker didn't open the doors. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Executive Account for 2015 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2015 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2017 2) Prime Ministership Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The President of the Religious Works' Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) The Head of Religious Affairs 2015 Central Management Terminate Account RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasure 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0146par0184	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Adana MP Elif Doğan Türkmen will speak. Here you go, Mr. Turkmen.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0147par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Court's budget. Dear MPs, the Court is in charge of making inspections on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, or on behalf of the nation. Active audit is an indication of whether the public is well managed. With active audits, public accountability is provided with effective supervision and the risk of public corruption decreases, but unfortunately, no control mechanisms in all institutions, including the Court in Turkey, where we discussed the budget, are not working or running. With non-independent control mechanisms, our country has known that law has been reduced to the ground for years; that the economy has been driven to extinction; that corruption, theft, environmental problems, and abuse have taken its toll; that on many other issues -- a loss that can't be returned to life and property -- and that's what I want to tell the economy about -- the increasing impact of corruption; we all know all of this, but there are also disasters that can be caused by lack of control. Dear lawmakers, we've had examples before, but we haven't learned, and today it's repeated, and the furnaces have been shot. We lost our lives due to lack of control over the fires of the dorms, and 11 little girls who belonged to a congregation in Aladağ have been buried in the ground before their childhood. I visited our wounded cubs, and I saw the flame and fear of the fire in their eyes. The right to education is a constitutional right. Why does the AKP's power not meet the requirements for our children's constitutional rights? The AKP has been in power in the Republic of Turkey for 15 years. Not only in Aladağ district of Adana, schools have been shut down in many of our villages in Saimbeyli, Tulbeyli, Feke, Ceyhan, Kozan, Pozanti districts. Our children are either being taken from their mother's arms or delivered to the homes of the association, the foundation, and the congregation, as was done in Aladağ. The villages of Aladağ, Clarucuk, Winters, and Karahan, the villages where we lost 11 children. There's only one reason why our children live in this dorm: the schools in their villages are closed. And these villages are an hour and a half away from Aladağ. These kids -- especially in the rain and in the snow -- they can't go to school if they're at home, and if they're at school, they can't go home. That is why parents have to give their children to whatever dorm they find. I've already received a message from a local in Ceyhan. From the National Education Director. We've been screaming for days about transport training here, and you haven't heard it. Ceyhan County National Education Director sent an article to the guardian, and you know what he says? We've removed transport training, there's nothing we can do, but if you want, we can put your child in a boarding house in the center of Ceyhan. It's a letter sent by a government official. What I understand is that we can deliver your child to a community home. Now, today, the AKP MP friends talked about mega projects, big Turkey. I also want to ask you: If you've made ways that we can't take our children's funerals -- if you haven't done so -- if you haven't given up our children's constitutional rights yet, what great Turkey are you talking about? If this is what Great Turkey is going to be like, then no way is it going to be that great Turkey! My fellow lawmakers, there is one thing the AKP government has done: they leave our villages without teachers, our children without futures, and for 15 years, the AKP has remained conscious of this educational policy. You know how they say on TV shows, families are poor, they're forced to send their children away? We don't say anything about families' poverty, but we really condemn the AKP understanding that delivers children to these unregulated homes. And I want to say, unfortunately, there is no effective control mechanism in Turkey; if there were, today, the elected, especially the Minister of National Education, would resign and all the appointed ones would be dismissed and investigated, but in Turkey, unfortunately, the control mechanism does not operate in any way, especially in Parliament, especially in the Court of Control, because it doesn't work in any way; do you know why? The government has a motto, and the power says: "For a time, 1 is greater than 317. " I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0148par0198	Thank you, Mr. Turkmen. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Murat Emir will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0149par0202	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We're discussing the budget of the Constitutional Court in an environment where the Constitutional Court is suspended and in an environment where the Constitutional Court condones it. After your extraordinary decision, you are taking the dictatorial regime, which you aspire to in this country, one step at a time, in order to move out of the Constitution, out of the state of emergency. Dear friends, the Constitutional Court has made a decision that will be a black mark on Turkish legal history. When we took the decrees to the Constitutional Court of Law, he pointed to the Article 128, and said, "I have no authority on this matter." However, the Constitutional Court's interpretation was very wrong; it made a rhetorical comment, and as the Vienna Agreement required, as the International Law required, and more importantly, the Constitutional Court had to make a systematic comment, as the 1991 court required. What did the Supreme Court say in 1991? I don't look at what you say, I don't look at the name of judgment in the law, I look at its contents, I look at what it does. So, what did the ordinances you brought in bring? Here, we need to talk about this. I'd like to ask the esteemed representatives of the Constitutional Court: Who will oversee this if the laws of the state of emergency are against the Constitution? Whose duty is this? If you're not going to supervise, who's going to stop it? Isn't the fact that the Constitution is in question, that Turkey should be unconstitutionalized? And do you not condone or even contribute to the destruction of the Constitution? Let me make it clear that when the decrees of the state of emergency have touched the human rights that you cannot violate in Article 15 of our Constitution -- which you have done many times -- who would prevent it? Or you know there can't be a permanent arrangement, you know you can't change the law with the ordinances, but you've made 150 amendments to 45 different laws so far, and how can the Constitutional Court condone that? A country like this is hardly a law state, my friends. Of course, you've issued disinterested decrees, you've issued inconsequential decrees, you've exceeded the laws of the law, you've issued decrees in the Constitution. What will you do if the Constitutional Court, for example, is removed from the Constitutional Court, when the Constitutional institutions, even the rules, are issued decrees under law? Are you going to watch it again? The truth is, of course, the Constitutional Court does not need to be removed at this time, since the Constitutional Court is now a Supreme Court who looks after the Court and pays attention to what it thinks. Dear friends, again, this decision that we're talking about, I'm unauthorized. The decision is also thought to be unanimous. Let's remember how it happened: he exported his two members through social knowledge. We're talking about a Supreme Court like this. And who was appointed to replace him? You know that president you wanted to put all the powers into his hands, he appointed his own chief advisor, and appointed the expert on the AKP for the Constitutional Compromise Commission? So we don't believe in the Constitution, we don't believe in the Constitution from time to time, and we don't obey the Constitution. He didn't hesitate to appoint the people who were members of the Constitutional Court, or guardians of the Constitution. Of course, we don't expect a legal decision from such a Supreme Court. But I would also like to say that today we see an effort to change the Constitution. Dear friends, constitutions aren't something that three or four people would do behind their backs. The Constitution is a critical issue that the whole country needs to talk about; it needs to run pluralism. Look, we're not the only ones who say that. There's the Venice Commission; you remember, you used the Venice Commission to shut down political parties, you reminded me. What does the Venice Commission say? You'll be pluralists in the constitution, you'll give them enough time, you'll argue, you'll be transparent, you'll participate, he says. Which one of these do you have today? You signed here, we had friends here who signed a draft he didn't see. It's also embarrassing, it's not serious. Dear friends, in addition to this, the Constitutional Court, if it does pass, will also have to see the material that comes before it, and what needs to be done, through the state of law, through the democratic state, through the rules that cannot be changed, as in the past, is to cancel those constitutional amendments; it faces such a historic task. The number of individual applications was 40,000 after July 15th, and the Vice President of the Constitutional Court said they were thinking black and white. This is the basic situation in which you brought Turkey. We're discussing the Constitutional Court's budget at a time when basic human rights and freedoms have been constantly underfoot and the Constitutional Court has been watching this. But, my dear friends, the rule of law is the basis of all of us, and with that faith, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0150par0217	Thank you, Mr. Emir. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Muğla MP Ömer Süha Aldan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Aldan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0151par0222	Mr. President, I looked at the proportion of the judges who were discharged after July 15th: 23.4 per cent of every four judges and prosecutors in Turkey and one of the higher judges have been expelled from the profession. And right now, there are over 1.5 million files in the Supreme Court. He's been through a lot of trauma. Hopefully, it'll come out positive, which, of course, is my biggest wish from the start. But I want to talk about two or three things. One of them is the incident with the blue marmara from the past term. With the incident of the Blue Marmara, the Turkish judiciary has waived its right to rule, and Turkey's Grand National Assembly has provided it. Look, I'll tell you some of the crimes of the accused charged with the incident of the Blue Marmara: conspiracy to commit murder by brutal emotion and persecution, intent on harming property, enforcing looting, enforcing torture, etc.; total prison sentence is 18,032. Yes, unfortunately, with a ruling from this House, with an indirect pardon -- because, since international agreements have not been applied to the Constitutional Court -- these people have been pardoned. This is a black mark on the Turkish legal history. To me, international agreements, relations between countries don't matter. Those who kill 10 Turkish citizens in public have been released. Everyone should do this -- please -- conscience accounting. Second, we observe some methods that we don't like during the trial after July 15th. If the judiciary is more involved in politics, if it's not too advanced in the ability to judge law, then the lawman, after a while, sees the defendant and the suspect as the enemy. This is a serious problem. Unfortunately, in Turkey, we see traces of this in investigations and trials. At this point, I invite all judges to be fair. Please let them be public prosecutors and judges of the Republic. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to make one more point. The Supreme Court and the Chief Prosecutors were very controversial, and it was a matter of tea and may, but most importantly, the opening of the judicial year was at the Palace. Mr. Bostanci is now a political figure for Mr. President because he came with the election. What's the judgment doing there? What is the judgment doing in the Palace? There's no gym in this country? (HPP clapping in rows) Taking all judicial members to court with their robes in their hands and running to court is an act that casts a shadow on the judiciary. Look, you know what Nizamülmülmülmük says? ▪ Good sultans are those who sleep with scholars. Good scholars say it's those who don't screw with sultans. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, there is an understanding in the judiciary: The inspector who comes to inspect a place in the judiciary looks at it and says, "If there is a man of law who is involved with a man whose case is many, he has written two words on his record and expanded his environment. " He has expanded his environment, which means that he will no longer be able to serve there, and that judge or prosecutor will be removed from office in the first decree. Mr. Erdogan may be the President of this country, but Mr. Erdogan is a person who is on the side of at least 2,000 cases. There's a lot of cases at the moment for defamation, and they're going to go on trial, and one day they're going to go on a high trial. How can we expect fair judgment from those judges who rushed to the palace? In this respect, I wish they'd done it in a village coffee, and this is the opening of the year. (CHP cheers) Then we'd think we were facing the public's judgment. The prosecution has a hall, the Supreme Court has a hall, the Ankara Courthouse has a hall. The hall, as long as... that spirit there is important, but if you take so many people to that palace, it's hard to expect a fair decision from those people. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, perhaps we should add to this budget, please add a hall fund to the Supreme Court. Mr. Mehmet Lightning said we've had the hardest time since the First World War.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0152par0232	That's right!
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0151par0233	He may have said that in a political sense as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy, but I perceive him as economically. So we're in a more difficult situation than World War II, which means we're in a more difficult situation than when we needed 70 cents, which means our country is going through a more difficult period than the 2001 crisis. I suggest you leave the presidency aside. The presidency will bring populism in the economy, and this country will quickly come to difficult situations and to the point of sinking. This country has more important problems. I salute the High Council with the hope that these problems in this country will be cared for.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0153par0237	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Istanbul MP Gürsel Tekin will speak. Here you go, Mr. Tekin. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0154par0242	Mr. President, I'm here on behalf of my group, my dear fellow lawmakers, to express my opinion of the land that was confiscated, especially after the coup. What your government is particularly ambitious about -- the question of property -- 2/B law, land out of forest quality, urban transformation and earthquake transformation; all of this, we see that you're dealing with the property issue -- let alone those changes, the transformations, unfortunately, in which our citizens are most confident. Naturally, at the beginning of these discussions, the Prime Minister and Minister of Environment and Urbanism said that we had seized the land of the state. So, as you will remember -- Mr. Minister knows very well, Mr. Saved -- especially in 2007, 2008, 2010 and all the times in Turkey, he himself has witnessed what kind of thala exists all over the world, and he has sometimes shared it on the screens. Despite the fact that we sent the Rant map to the Prime Minister of the period, both in 2010 and 2011, there were no measures taken, on the contrary here -- the Minister of Environment and Urbanism in the past -- has responded to me. When we told the Minister that the land of the state was right, we asked him a question, which is 1,142 homeland lands -- in which cities, in which districts, in which departments -- and I don't even want to read this, it's a very informal answer, and he said he couldn't answer. So, of course, we've had all of this information that we've actually learned before, and we've been following, especially the work we've done on urban and random transformations, although your government and the Secretary of State have not responded. Now, despite our warnings for many, many years after the coup on July 15th, I regret to inform you that none of them have been answered. Dear friends, now, look, our Mr. Adana MP has just expressed it. Our own children were supported by various institutions, various ministries, including 110 homes, not only on the land, but on the land that was given to the home, when our own citizens could not find a home for their children. As the ruling deputy, you know very well how difficult it is to rent a place in the General Directorate of Foundations. 105 foundations, 934 schools, 17 unions, 17 universities, 42 hospitals, a large number of malls, residences, and dozens of places you can't even count. Dear friends, you will solve the property problem of our citizen. When you say that you have solved the property problem of one group, it is the property problem of the coup organization. You can see these all over 81 provinces. If we have friends in law enforcement who want to know, I'd like to give them to you. Are these the only plots assigned? Lands have been assigned, zoning practices have been implemented, and various institutions have contributed to the production of unsatisfactory. At a meeting in İzmir, certain newspapers that have been involved in crime and pollution must be confiscated. When I said that, most of the ruling MPs and ruling members have made a very serious cry. But I never gave you the name of any newspaper. Now I ask you, why did you confiscate the newspapers of these coupgers? If Mr. Mehmet Simsek were here, I would ask him. In 2005 -- in fact, in the past period that was reserved for earthquake transformation -- after the Marmara earthquake -- the DSP-MHP was created by the power of the DSP-MHP -- especially in the major cities -- where the ministries should be used for earthquake transformation. You gave the time paper 32 acres. Now, I'm wondering if the prosecutors are listening or not. Have you ever launched an investigation into those who allocated these plots, those who built zoning apps on these plots, the institutions that gave them incentive loans, the authorities? No, you're not opening this. Who are you opening it to? You're torturing our citizens who send their children to those schools. Let me tell you something else: When you do this study, not just look here, dear friends, but 193 schools in Africa. You'll see a lot in the names of those schools, the names of many politicians, their dead mothers, their dead fathers. There's the same view here. Look, a lot of politicians' mothers, their father's parents were named after those schools, those foundations, those classrooms. Why is it given to you that the families of CHP, MPHP, HDP MPs, their mothers, their fathers, and yours are not written on top of these schools? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, if you want to deal with a blow, you have to look at all of the applications in the last 15 years, and when you look at the money movement, the land movement, you can deal with these pulsers like this, otherwise it doesn't go beyond rhetoric. But I, Mr. President, ask the President of the House, I don't think I've ever been able to describe such an informal article to the Minister. As a citizen, as a citizen, we know all of this in what provinces, as Mr. Arinc said, in Ankara, Istanbul, in major cities, but in other cities, for example, Mr. Minister of Environment and Urbanism, I'm going to Kayseri, where I'm looking now, 44 places. The Minister says: "We didn't give 1 meter. For God's sake, who gave you 44 places? I think this needs to be investigated in a healthy manner. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0155par0254	Thank you, Mr. Tekin. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Tanal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0156par0259	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, in all democratic law states, such an institution is really needed, and I would like to thank Mr. Bulent Kusoglu. In an article written by him, they used to put canaries in mines. As long as that canary sang, it was believed that the air was sufficient, that there was no problem. And if the public inspector is really talking in democratic countries, if he's warning the authorities, then there's a public auditor there. So, this sample fits the system in Turkey. Now, what the public inspector has done so far, or when we look at public opinion, literature, the Constitution, it has to be neutral, independent, objective. Until members of the president elected public auditor, they have been members of a political party, or they have been elected MP, or they have been elected MP a week or fifteen days before the election, and we are neutral. They say, "We are neutral." They are all elected by partisan behavior. What's this one called? It's a trick against the law. What's this one called? It's called profiling in a clear and clear way. What does subsidiary feed? Salvage brings in inequality, violates human rights, is a foreign concept to democracy, it's against democracy. Now, what is this institution supposed to do when it's chosen to record like this? The question is... how does the application of political power and the actions and procedures of executives control whether or not they fit the law, justice? There's a fundamental principle in law: the borrower takes orders. So, what's the debt? I've chosen you, I've chosen you; you can't supervise me. For him, if it's taken care of, in a country with so many violations of rights, how many political decisions have the Society of Public Control had on this issue? You see, in our country where there are so many rights violations, the most applications are Thrace, Internal Anatolia; Southeast and East Asia Minor, more or less. However, when we look at institutions, what are the places where the most violations are?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0157par0262	Mr. Tanal, a moment of your time. Members of parliament, the People's Assembly of Afghanistan-Turkey Interparliament Group President Qudratollah Zaki and the Parliamentary delegation with him have now arrived in our Parliament. [[AK PARTY applauds CHP rows]] I welcome them on behalf of our great Council. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Executive Account for 2015 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2015 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2017 2) Prime Ministership Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The President of the Religious Works' Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) The Head of Religious Affairs 2015 Central Management Terminate Account RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasure 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account Here you go, Mr. Tanal. I'll add your time.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0158par0320	Thank you. And welcome to our honored guests. I'm the Republican People's Party's İstanbul MP -- let me make that clear -- welcome to our Assembly. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, of course, the Public Control Agency is one of the most fundamental and most efficient institutions of an advanced democracy. What does the public inspector teach the citizens in order for this good administration to take place first? It says: I protect you in front of the government, in front of the administration. This administration, this state, this government, should be able to account for you. I mean, it's an institution that protects its citizens. Well, it's been said that the Public Control Agency has been primarily needed until today for reasons such as one: the judicial process is very slow. Two: Judicial control is formal. Three: Judicial control is expensive. Four: Since there is a share of authority among the judicial bodies, it causes a continuous extension. So, what would happen in our country if public supervision did? The quality of public administration increases. I mean, if the quality of public administration isn't increasing, then there's the responsibility of the Public Control Agency here, which is a clear indication that you're not doing your job. Two: At the same time, public administration must be accessible and transparent. If there is no transparency in the country, if there is no transparency in the country, if it can't be reached, then the Public Control Agency is not doing its job. Three: If democratic rules don't work in the country, it's the Society of Public Control that will guide it with its decisions, which means it's not doing its duty. Participants... at the very least, there should be reports, suggestions. The fourth is that citizens should be offered suggestions against public administration in terms of a new protection mechanism, but unfortunately, as far as we can see -- it's been established in 2012, it's started getting complaints since 2013 -- when we've looked at complaints so far, we haven't traveled a barley length. So, who are we doing this to? We built it because of the European Union's proposals. Basically, we need to build it for our people. We need to build it to become more democratic, for the law, for the state, for freedom, for democracy. But if there's no word from the Public Control Agency at this time when the law is being put on the shelf, then our main event in the mines is the one that's going to give us a voice, guide us, the Public Control Agency is not doing its job, it's in a dysfunctional state. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0159par0328	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Ahmet Tuncay Özkan will speak now. Your time is six minutes. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0160par0333	Mr. President, dear friends, the National Intelligence Service is an intelligence agency born under the Great National Assembly of Turkey, located in our historical sources as the Military P.C., and when you examined their transcripts and secret subpoenas, it was highly qualified to collect intelligence against the enemy, depending on the Parliament. However, today's National Intelligence Agency has been released from its custody by the ruling party's provisions after the 2000s. The Turkish army was also released from custody, and in 2003 the impact of military custody on civil authority was reduced, and measures were brought to increase our security through various regulations after 2003, and it was made in power, and the army was restructured in the way the government wanted. Unfortunately, both institutions are now in a position to be locked up, and I'm very sorry to say. After the National Intelligence Agency was structured, its activities failed to report the coup; it could not report the coup, nor could it take any preventive measures. The Turkish Armed Forces, unfortunately, were wiped out, carved, delivered to the Fetullahist organization, but were unable to stop the coup from collapsing on us like a nightmare. Why? Why? The question lies in the logic of possession. We've established a Commission -- I've just seen Mr. Bashir Atalay. Mr. Minister -- in his speech from this bench regarding the Commission, he says: "This Commission will carry out its audit duty, and above all guardianships, it will be conducted in an order where national sovereignty is valid, by throwing away custody. " I applaud from the heart. The reason is that the speech text is a regulation that we often remind of in the Commission study. So, what's the result? The commission isn't working, guys. The Commission is not running at all. Mr. Secretary was just here, it's not running, there's no information for the Commission, there's no information for the Commission. What was brought in as a report... do you know what was abducted from the control of the Turkish Grand National Assembly? The study of the group is manageable. What does that mean? The 2015 report came to us, and I asked the Commission, and I said, "Why is there nothing in this report about the organization of Fetullah Gulen, and why isn't it there?" In April 2015, they replied: "We watch and monitor and monitor and watch and we know of all of them in a vulnerable state. There was a coup in July. Now, when we ask some questions here, you shouldn't be angry, I ask you: Well, could the MIT know about this coup? Oh, no. Why not? Because we fixed it, we took away custody. Well, could the military have known about this coup? Oh, no. Why not? Because we've eliminated custody, rearranged it. You know what we actually did? We look like ourselves. Then what happened? There's been a coup. We've destroyed the tradition of state, we've destroyed the common mind, we've destroyed the knowledge, we've filled our own staff, that's the result. What does it mean when 158 generals attempt a coup?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0161par0334	Did he give you a heads-up?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0160par0335	So Solomon went to Demirel, and told Hiram Abas, the deputy minister of MIT. Since I'm writing a book about it, I know some history, so I can shed some light on it. There's an untrustworthy environment, and there's no threat analysis. Look, I'm warning you, your threat analysis of Cyprus is political, it's on the way to saving the day, it's on the way to collecting money, if Cyprus is sold, we're under. We must all stand together, friends, no matter who we face, and never leave Cyprus for our children. These six arrows you see on my collar may be from the badges you used to see on the side of your grandfathers and on the side of your fathers -- my mother put them on in the morning from 1957 to 1960; you see them on the side of Ataturk; they are like the sun, not upside down, not upside down; our arrows are not toward the chest, not toward the heart; they reflect the sunlight. My mother wore it for something she was very upset about here. You have opened the way for Fetollah all over the world, and have let him take over the trade, and let him take over the state, and the Fetullah, whom you condoned, came and struck. When I was being taken from my house -- I suggest that you be careful when you say something to the People's Party -- 1,500 people gathered at the door and shouted, "Fetollah's Mutts can't intimidate us!" (The Muttts of Fetollah can't deter us!) In this struggle you may have returned, perhaps we have done it wrong. There will be those of you who say, "We will stand tall in front of Fetullah Gulen. On that day, in the face of those who think like him, carrying the six arrows of the Republican People's Party in our chest with honor." Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0162par0339	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu will speak. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Bachelor. Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0163par0343	Mr. President, I'm going to talk to the esteemed MPs about the budget for the Ministry of Religious Affairs. As you know, his role in the Ministry of Religious Affairs Law is to run the affairs of Islam's faith and religious institutions, and that's how he writes, but, you know, there's not only Islam religion, there's different religions, there's different interpretations. A democratic country, we get taxes equal to everyone else, but the President of Religious Affairs, as you know, serves one sect, I'm afraid. I won't talk about them much, they've been talked about much, they've been discussed, they're still talking about the Sunni, Hanefi sect. A lot of issues may come up as we discuss the budget for the chairmanship of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. For example, the Court reports have come to my attention, Court reports in the budget of Religious Affairs. There are a lot of problems with Turkey's Religion Foundation. The money collected on Haiti was not sent. It is written in the Court reports. Here, the money collected in mosques is transferred to the foundation, and there is a lot of talk in the foundation, but I will not talk about it. But I want to stay on top of something. After July 15th, the President of the Religious Affairs is in a hurry, 9th in a row. He has gathered the Church of Religion, and there are two important decisions. Number one: Å is a perverted cult. Number two: the Fetullah is a false memorandum. Good morning! Come on, what was the government doing, cheating on the AKP, cheating on the President of Religious Affairs, that's when he was deceived? I ask these teachers one more question: "Who is this false meth, and who will judge it, and who will judge it? Are there any answers to these questions? My dear friends, the Minister of the Plans and Budget Commission for budget talks and then the President of Religious Affairs said: "We are after Islam." So, if the state is going to define the origin of Islam, how will this be, how will different interpretations be evaluated? See, one of the most fundamental problems of this country and Islam is the subject of the word "hadis" Do you know what's spoken there? My hope will be divided into 72 factions, one of which is right and the other is superstition. Look, this is one of the most fundamental problems in the Islamic world. But I'm not going to talk about any of this, none of this, not today. Now, of course, we understand, of course, there are meetings, there are conditions for faith, there are conditions for Islam, there are assumptions, there are requirements, there are circumcisions, of course, there are some forms of religion. But, where's the original? I'm asking the President of Religious Affairs and the great teachers of this country, where is he? I ask you, where is the essence of Islam? From time to time, you speak of other things, other things, and of morality, and of Islamic morality, but do you speak of the examples that are with you? Do you speak of the bondman, and arrogance, and vanity, and kindness? Look, I'll tell you something: 190 in November in this country, 190 in 2016, 1,816 workers died in a business accident, business murder, because there were no necessary measures taken, and there were no inspections. Did you hear anything on the diet? There's an institution called Tabheron labor, slavery, slavery. There is slavery that the prophet lifted a thousand and four hundred years ago. Well, did the Head of Religious Affairs, a teacher come out and say anything about it? [[Applause from CHP rows]] The cities are being plundered, the mountains, the valleys are being looted, and the future generations' legacy is being looted, and one day a Dianet official, a teacher, a theologian, did he say anything? Did he say it was wrong? The water is being packed, Allah's water. The water of God, of all living things, is being packaged and sold. There's the Head of Religious Affairs, there's a teacher, there's a theologian, did he say anything about it? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Behold, in the days of Ignorance, the daughters were buried alive, and now they are burned. Do you know how they burn? These kids are on fire because they haven't taken the necessary precautions. Did the President of the Religious Affairs go and conduct an inspection of his courses? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Why don't you tell us about Veda Hutbesi? Veda Hutbesi is the most important human rights document. He says no criminal can be blamed for his mother's father, his children. The three-year-old went to the doctor with a fever of 40 degrees, and your father was arrested from the prison, and you had no insurance from the SGK. (H.P.) Did the Chief of Religious Affairs, the teachers come out and say anything in this country? Why don't they go to palaces and stand up? Why don't they say like Abu Zer, if you built this palace with your money, it's a waste, and if you did it with the property of the people, it's a sin. Why don't they say it's a sin? And why do you not teach us that rebellion is enjoined, O great teachers? OK, let's obey the nation. What does that mean by us? Does it mean our tribe, our religion, or does it mean the law that obeys justice? Why don't you tell us, teachers, that it's necessary to rebel against justice, against law? Why don't you teach us this, and tell us all about it? You are guilty, and you are responsible. I'm not just saying this to the teachers of this country, Turkey, the theologians, I'm telling the teachers of all Islamic geography: If you had said these things, if you hadn't bowed to the authorities, if you had said these things, people wouldn't have strangled each other in Islamic geography, children wouldn't have been killed. Hodjas with green turbans, you are responsible, responsible, and you will answer to God. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0164par0363	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Atila Sertel of İzmir will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Sertel. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0165par0368	Mr. President, precious MPs, this is RTÜK, minute six. In six minutes, it is impossible to discuss the problems of the press, media, television and radio in Turkey. It won't last me an hour and a half, but I'll try to sum it up in six minutes. To sum up the duties of the Radio and Television Oversight and to oversee that control, but at the moment of today's arrival, the Radio and Television Oversight has unfortunately become a censorship board. My recommendation to the administration, Mr. Numan Survivmiş, is this: RTÜK must end, RTSÜK must start, Radio Television should be redesigned as a television censorship board, not the Radio Oversight Board, because censorship on all matters is confronting us. Last year, 44 TVs, radios, media have been banned, 44 times. You can't prevent rape, you're banning rape. There's an explosion, there's a terrorist incident, we condemn terrorism, you condemn terrorism, terror can't be avoided, but you bring in a gag order about terrorism and you blow it up. There's an explosion at the Governorate in Adana, the Radio and Television Oversight and Government immediately ban the incident before TV channels reach it. You'll never be able to solve the problems in Turkey with a banned mentality. If the problem had been solved by covering it up, you would have been a very successful power. You're so skilled at covering so many things up, you're a banter, and you really have a world record of shutting down TVs in Turkey, not just radios and TVs. You've shut down 50 broadcasts, 34 TVs, 33 radios with a decree under law. These closings are not signed by the RTÜK, the RTÜK is offline, you have made these decisions based on the decision of arbitrary provisions as part of the state of emergency. You don't care about morality. If you had cared, you would have found it immoral to publish the ridiculous and model scraps that you've been publishing with RTOK all day called marriage programs and to be presented to the Turkish community in a design, and to ban those programs. But those programs work for you, and instead of talking about the problems of that society, you've turned Turkey into one of those who does who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, from the house of marriage. I also want to tell local televisions, local media, that our friends in Anatolia are in great trouble. In Adıyaman, in the land of Aymet Aydın, there is Mercan TV. For example, Coral TV needs 3 megabit bands to broadcast. This 3 megabit banda has to pay $16,500 in total. It's not enough, it's Mercan TV, and $2,500 pays the uplink price. So in total, $19,500 is paid to this vault every month. Friends, a local television paid $65,914 in rent in January, which went up to 79,147 lira today. I'm asking you now: the same price is applied to national-based television channels, and the same numbers are offered for television channels that have received an ad for 500 liras, a thousand liras, 300 liras, 150 liras on the local basis. Is that right? I ask: Where is it possible for local television to survive? They're going down in circles, and they're closing one at a time, my friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, the other day, at the AVM opening, Kayseri/de, Mr. President speaking: let the AVM rent be Turkish lira, let the dollar run out, let the dollar go up, don't do it with dollars. He says, "That's right, that's right, that's right." Well, when it's a mall, the dollar fits, but when it has satellite rents, why doesn't the dollar fit, and why isn't it converted into Turkish lira? Why doesn't it fit the satellite that fits the mall? That's a question to ask. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends have cancelled the press card around 720, this is the Director General of Information of Press-Journal. No matter what agency he works for, no one's press card has to be canceled. But we have a friend -- my friend, Sedat Kaya -- who I grew up with since I was almost a kid -- who's been taken away from him all the time because of his comments on the facebook. That's a shame, that's a shame, that's a sin, that's not gonna happen. (CHEERING) My dear friends, one day you'll be asked to account for this. As Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was in Samsun in 1919, these problems would be solved by the Republican People's Party's ruling in 2019. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0166par0379	Thank you, Mr. Sertel. Mr. Yıldırım, you have a request for a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0167par0384	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, here's a new development of something I've expressed in my speech today: we're facing a new force that is truly mind-blowing every day. I have stated that our mayor of Şemdin was arrested this morning. Immediately after the governor's decree, the security forces, which were based on the governor's decree, locked the city gate with the chain, and told the employees who came in, "This place is closed until further notice." The other thing is, we witnessed a new procedure yesterday by appointing a trustee to the Van Özalp municipality, which has been appointed trustees for two and a half months. Let's just say that we don't know if this is being done by handing over a city hall, or by locking up a city hall and leaving the county unsupervised, we don't know if it's an automatic will...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0168par0389	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0167par0390	Thank you. Now, by locking down a city hall and leaving the county out of service, it is automatically mistaken if those people's will and beliefs are thought to change at the moment. They serve something that weakens the sense of ownership and ownership of this county. We can't possibly accept these applications. Because I'm saying it's not possible for us to accept these practices if even the mayors, our party managers, our MPs, all the MPs of this ruling party, even the ministers, even the rulers, can't bear the criticism of even a part of them, but it serves to weaken the sense of ownership and ownership of the people of the region and this country. Thank you. Thank you. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Executive Account for 2015 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2015 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2017 2) Prime Ministership Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The President of the Religious Works' Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) The Head of Religious Affairs 2015 Central Management Terminate Account RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasure 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0169par0443	Yes, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Istanbul MP Mr. Kadir Enis Berberoglu will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Berberoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0170par0447	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, on behalf of my group, I have made a pledge on the budget of the Editor-in-Chief of Press-Admission. Well, let's just say that another republican institution has been emptied, in a nutshell, because that's the bottom line. Look, we're talking about a 1920 law -- an institution founded before the republic -- founded at the time by the Matbut and Intelligence Administration. Why is it being installed? Later, when you look at their duties under the law, we see that its purpose is to promote inside and out, to monitor propaganda activities against the government and against Turkey, to manipulate external introductions, to coordinate foreign affairs. Well, in an environment where today, thanks to the AKP, Turkey's friends are less than one finger, and enemies are more than one finger, it's enough to look at the staff structure if at least this institution performs its foreign policy-returning function or external promotion function. When we look at it, about 550 of the staff of about 700 or so people are employed in Turkey, half of them speak foreign languages, and again, only in 35 countries, we see that there are press-reviewers, so 5 percent of the staff are employed abroad. Well, I'd like to sort out a few items that might interest you when you look at something like this, what kind of politics can be produced? And if Mr. Secretary Numan had been here, I'd like to offer it to him. Number one: There is nothing wrong with your Zatials or with the Press-Journal and Information General Directorate, which I consider the biggest problem of Turkey's current media, as an old journalist. The fact that a journalist is allowed to follow the President and the Prime Minister in this country and that the permit is not granted to some newspapers, television agencies and news agencies and others is enough to explain the media order in this country. What permit do I need as a professional journalist to keep track of the Prime Minister of this country's public, public activities, to be there, to bring a camera, to keep a tape? If press release and information headquarters don't mind, I'd say he's short-handed. Second, we all have population papers in our pockets, new identities. Journalists have a press pass in their pockets, in addition to these. Just like the identities we've been handed out to the parliamentarians. When he's handing out these identities, does the House Department get permission from any custody agency? He won't take it. So, in what criteria can the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information distinguish themselves from that politics, from that politics, from that newspaper, from the other TV? He's giving some of it a press card, a publicity card. Look, I want you to understand him, Congressman. They're publicity cards. It's not something that gives you any advantage, like a credit card, or a gift from any store, with a promotion; it shows that people are just media members. Not only did you not act fair when you dealt these cards, you began to cancel some of these cards for reasons of water. Which I think should be the problem with the Department of Press and Information. Finally, I was actually inspired by Mr. Bostanci, deputy leader of the AKP Group. They used a very accurate statement on this stand. Meaning I'll tell you, if I make a mistake, please let them fix me themselves. For the first time, the President was elected by the public vote. He said he was now a political figure. I totally agree, and like any politician, he has to have his share of criticism. The criticism that I've been given is that if I go before the court, there will be a sentence called political tolerance -- which is true -- but if the President is criticized, then you will be tried by special law, you will be sued by special law. Some of our friends who are in there now, some of my former colleagues, are in prison because of these cases, they've been judged or judged by these cases. Please, press release and the Department of Information will finally do its part in this matter. At least in the section on press cases, he can separate criticism from the office without forgetting that the President has a political personality. Thank you very much, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0171par0456	Thank you, Mr. Berberoglu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Lale Karbük will speak last. Here you go, Mr. Carabinieri. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0172par0461	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, when the Minister of Plans and Budget Commission presented us, they always painted us a very tacky picture, but the data inside the painting was not real. We tried to tell the truth, but the response was: "Look at the conclusion from the chest. " Now, it's not just the ministers, it's the pink ones. The Central Bank explains the Financial Stability Report twice a year, and in this latest report, it's painted a pink picture so much that the whole problem is in the world, in the hopes of raising interest on the Fed, in the hopes of raising interest on the Fed. Well, where else? There are risks that the economic policies expected from Trump are increasing the risk. And there's nothing wrong with Turkey? No, I don't. There's no dissolution? No, I don't. A bad view is drawn for countries like this outside of Turkey, the painting is bad, but for Turkey, it's tacky. Look, I'd like to read you these sentences. The Financial Stabilisation Report says for Turkey that the negative developments in the global bond market will not be reflected in Turkey -- the Central Bank's report -- banks will have no trouble finding outside loans, they will be delayed, they will owe a very reasonable amount of real sectors -- but much of the debt is already long-term. Let me read you another sentence: Turkey's risk premium is also falling. Congressmans, what kind of pink painting is this that the Central Bank has drawn? What kind of deception is that? Yes, I know that the Central Bank is not autonomous, it can't speak freely, but please, you don't fool the citizen. Turkey, like other developing countries, has lost value to dollars, yes, but Turkey's value record is just twice as high as its other countries'. How do you explain the difference to the citizen? It's a political crisis. ▪ Can you say that the political crisis is a reflection of the economy? Can you tell these facts? With these facts, we're in a state of panic over the presidential system. Can you say, Congressmans? Turkey's foreign currency obligation is unfortunately $610 billion, our currency is 220 billion. Well, another fact is that we're about as short as $390 billion. At Christmas, the currency was 2.92, and in this case, 1 trillion was $138 billion, for the price of the exchange deficit. What's up, dollar? 3,47. Now what? One trillion, 350 billion liras. Well, if that's not a risk, then what is it? Congressmans, Turkey is growing out of the current. He can't raise his savings, he's trying to fund by borrowing money, and he can't use the money he owes, he's already growing with consumption. Look, speaking of which, we've reduced Turkey's debt in 14 years. Well, look, in 2002, Turkey's gross foreign debt stock had an GDP of 56.2. By the way, you've dropped it to 37, in the last five years, and now Turkey's gross foreign debt stock is 59.5 GDP. So you took it from 56.2 to 59.5, so I'm celebrating. What did you do with the public debt supply? From 2002 to this time, you have doubled. What about the private sector's external debt? It's increased by seven and a half times in domestic and external debt, thanks to you. Congressmans, Turkey has $167.8 billion to pay in short term, and the annual need for foreign financing is $200 billion. So, you've also increased the debt of the government, the private sector and the household in the current growth model. Parents only have 167.1 billion liras, look, they only have needs credits. If there's a problem with the repayment of these loans, isn't it a significant risk that the valued representatives, the banks, will be affected? Here's an 8.4 percent unemployment, which you've taken over in the growth model, which you've been paying off and you've been lending money, and now 11.3 percent unemployment, which I'm celebrating! Since 2015, Turkey has been both short of budgets and is leaving with a current deficit. You also downloaded the savings rates: you bought them in 2002 at 18.6, you reduced the savings deficit to 13.5 per cent in 2016. What's the world average like? 25.4; developing countries are 31.2; Asia is 41 percent; Europe is the worst in the 17th, but you have dropped it to 13.5 percent. Hopes are linked to external resources and foreign capital for growth, but capital entry is reduced from $50 billion a year to $20 billion a year because you've reduced trust, money doesn't come. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear Regents, please do not ignore these facts. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0173par0472	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. Congressmans, this concludes the talks on behalf of the group. We will now hear from Mr. Abdurrahman Öz. Here you go, Mr. Oz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0174par0478	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own in favor of the U.S. budget bill of 2017. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin, I salute the people who have resisted the invasion movement on the evening of July 15th, who have stood up to the streets for this purpose, who have stood up to the tanks, who have taken control of their state. Again, I pray to God for the mercy of our beloved martyrs who have laid down their lives for the unbreakable integrity of our country, and to their grieving families for patience, and to our veterans for immediate healing. The budget bill we're talking about is the 15th budget bill by the EC PARTY governments since 2002, and I wish it first to be good. Today, we discussed the budgets of the presidency, the chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Court, the Office of the State, the Office of the Prime Ministership, the General Secretary-General of the National Security Board, the Ministry of Diet Affairs, the RTÜK, the Editor-in-Chief of the Press and the Department of Information. The budget of 2017 is a budget for service budget, and, as in the past 14 years, it has a budget that provides services to increase the welfare of our citizens. Investments are funded in the budget. In this budget, investment spending has been increased by 30 per cent compared to last year. The highest share is divided into the Ministry of Transport and National Education, followed by investments by the Ministry of Agriculture and Health, respectively. Dear lawmakers, the budget bill has continued to support the real sector. Local governments are supported by regional and rural development. In the same framework, agricultural support continued. The budget is divided into 30.9 billion, about 31 billion TL. You know, during the AK PARTY administrations, there have been many supports, such as diesel, fertilizer, wheat and grain support, cattle, milk and food support, bait plants and organic agriculture, which continue to grow. In 2016, in the province of Aydın, where I was a MP, in the nine months period, $287m was paid agricultural support. For 2017, this figure is estimated at around $500m. We are aware of how important agriculture is to our Enlightenment. I'd like to say that we continue to work as intellectual lawmakers to include agricultural support for a portion of figs that grow in our province, which are not under support, and hopefully we'll conclude as soon as possible. Because, you know, the first thing to come to mind when you're called a synthecary, is that figs come to mind when you're called a light. About 60,000 tons of figs were produced this year, exported to 35,000 tonnes of this, providing nearly 400 million TL. Dear lawmakers, domestic savings have also been encouraged in the budget we are negotiating. According to the 2002 budget, education has been increased by 10 times, which shows the importance of our government's education by the EC PARTY. Higher education scholarships and loans had been increased earlier, as we said in the promise of elections. As well as health, employees, and social security services, we are pleased to see plans are being made according to the principle of improving the welfare of our citizens. Dear lawmakers, you know, in the following days of budget talks, our work on the new constitution and the Constitutional Amendment will be on the agenda of the House, and I believe that this amendment will be put before our people in a referendum, as we have already promised. We believe that you will support this proposal of change, that you will evaluate this new constitution, and that you will say yes in a large way, and that you will support it. Because our people believe that the change will have positive consequences for them, and it will be necessary for a stronger Turkey. On this occasion, I would like to welcome the General Assembly with respect to the wishes of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law to do well for our country and our nation.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0175par0492	Thank you. In the name of the government, we will now hear from Mr. Mehmet Simsek. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0176par0497	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute you, our High Council. I hope the budgets of all the institutions we're interviewing will be good for our country, for our nation. I'd like to thank everyone who's passed the job. Yesterday I shared with you my views on Turkey's economy and the world's economy in general. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to share with you today more about my views on his activities regarding the Undersecretary of the Treasury. I'll also share with you my opinion on some criticism, evaluations, evaluations. First of all, Turkey's balance sheet, state balance sheet, public finance is still strong in this troubled period. Which actually allows us to show some resistance to shocks. The state's balance sheet, the Treasury's balance sheet, of course, is the state of the public finances. Turkey's gross public debt stock today is about 33 per cent of the state's gross public debt stock. This is -- as I said yesterday -- well below 47 percent of the developing country's averages. Again, the eurozone is over 90 per cent, with the average OECD countries around 116 per cent. So, we have a financial area in this sense, and as a result, we use this financial area to support the economy. Similarly, the budget, in fact, gave almost zero deficits in the general government last year, but this year it rose to about 2 per cent of this open national income. It is intended to be held at that level next year, and there is a priority for investments. So, when you look at our country's budget deficit as well as the public debt rate, you have a strong position, and we use this financial area, as I said, to support the economy in this difficult time. Another important issue: in the past, you know, debt sustainability was a major concern, which was partly related to the time, partly to the cost, partly to the structure of debt. In the past, the Treasury was in debt from domestic markets with an average of nine months, while in our government, it has now risen to sixty-eight, seventy months. On average, our debt to bonds in terms of dollars in foreign markets has increased by 15 years today. The average cost of the fixed-received TL is now reduced to 10 per cent, while the average cost of domestic debt is already more than 60 per cent. Again, when we looked at the structure of the debt, we actually made significant improvements, so not only did we reduce the debt, we improved the structure of the debt significantly. Of course, we've been using strategic criteria to manage the risks of the debt supply since 2003. We're doing the loans mainly in Turkish liras and with fixed interest instruments, and we're trying to extend the time as long as the market conditions are available. In 2002, 58 per cent of our central management debt stock was in exchange for foreign currency, while by October 2016, it dropped to 35.9 per cent. Similarly, 55 per cent of our debt stock used to be made up of variable interest bonds, while the rate is reduced to 30.9 per cent today. We have also significantly reduced our debt supply's sensitivity to interest, currency and liquidity, thanks to a strategic-based debt policy. Since 2003, we have made significant improvements in the interest-sensitiveness of the debt stock. It turns out that the structure of our debt stock has been significantly improved by our analysis of sensitivity again. For example, today, Turkish lira rates increased interest rates by 500 base points -- in interest rates, in 2001, by 1.7 per cent, or rather 1.7 per cent per cent per year in debt supply. In 2015, this raises only one point. Similarly, if growth falls by 2 points today, our debt stock will only increase by 0.6 per cent. It used to be 1.6 points. If we were to continue the stock structure in 2001 and Turkish lira lost 10 per cent, the debt stock would increase by 4.4 points in national revenues. However, considering the construction in 2015 and if Turkish lira loses 10 per cent, its impact is around 1.2 points. So, according to our sustainability analysis, even if all of these one-time shocks are all happening together -- which would be a very pessimistic scenario -- I mean, growth would go down by 2 points, interest rates would go up by 500 base points, interest rates would go up by 10 per cent, and even if the European Union loses 10 per cent, even in this case, the proportion of the defined debt supply to a national income is at the end of this medium-term programme period, we'd be dealing with a debt divided by a million dollars below 38 per cent of Maastrichtricht Kriter. All these analyses reveal how solid our public finance, our public debt structure, how resistant we are to shocks. One of the important things that has been brought up here and here today, from time to time, is the burdens of the Treasury within the framework of public-private cooperation. The Treasury Undersecretary pledges a loan for specific infrastructure projects carried out by public administrations and private budgetary administrations with a public-private co-operation model. So far, $960 million for the Eurasian Tunnel Project has been signed by the Treasury Undersecretary for a total of $8.7 billion in debt to the Gebze-Orhangazi-Izmir Highway Project, about $5 billion for the North Marmara Highway Project, about 2.7 billion for the third bridge section. The stockpile of guaranteed loans was estimated at around 12 billion dollars in the 2nd quarter of 2016. As of the 2nd quarter of 2016, there is only 2.9 per cent of the bank's guaranteed loans. It was around 52 percent in 2002. So both the outside debt supply guaranteed by the Treasury is limited in this framework, and the ratio of these to be happening is very low. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to inform you about the Treasury Undersecretary's funding programme. In 2017, a total of $13.1 billion will be held, including 80.5 billion in principal currency and 52.7 billion in interest. The $98.1 billion of the debt service is planned to be an internal debt and $35 billion as an external debt service. Traditional eurobond is planned to provide $6 billion in financing from international capital markets through exports of Japanese new and rent certificates, and to lend inland at 96.2 billion. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to brief you on the budget sizes of the Undersecretary of the Treasury. When we look at the 2017 Treasury Undersecretary's budget, the amount offered is 77.4 billion liras. We know that 57.5 billion dollars of this amount is made up of interest payments. The $12.5 billion of the $12 billion current transfers grant in the budget bid in 2017 is due to mission damage to the KİSCE and the loss of revenue to public-owned banks. The $3.8 billion is a state contribution to the individual pension system, $894m in payments to the national fund, and 572m in transfers abroad. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, when it comes to relations with international institutions, we successfully maintain our relations with international and regional development banks. We've been in the European Bank of Development and Development for the past two years, using the most loans. This bank operates other Central Asia operations through the Istanbul office. We funded about $4.3 billion from the World Bank under the framework agreement covering 2012-2016. We continue our work with the World Bank on a five-year framework agreement that will cover 2017-2021. The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, which began in 2016, replaced our country at the 12-member Board of Directors. The IMF Kota and Management Reform Package took effect in early 2016. Our quota in the IMF has increased from about 1.46 billion SDR to 4.66 billion SDR, while our voting power has risen from 0.61 per cent to 0.95 per cent. We paid for this quota increase from the 2016 budget. So we became one of the top 20 members of the fund with the highest quota. Last year, we successfully completed the G20 presidency. Our country has completed its G20 Troika membership position as of December 1st this year, where it has been active for three years. One of the most valuable speakers has stated that we may not be among the members of G20, so I'd like to clear the air. The G20 membership mechanism was created in 1999, bringing together systems-important countries in the platform global system. Although economic size was considered in the G20 election, G20 did not represent the first 20 countries with the highest domestic product. G20 membership does not vary over the years, it has a fixed structure. So -- theoretically -- even if a country's G20 membership falls on an illegitimate domestic dollar base, it's not lost, and that's not the risk of Turkey right now. Mr. President, now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk about the support of the treasure to farmers, merchants, SME and entrepreneurs. We're making our farmers use subsidies loans, you know, with interest rates from zero to 8.25 percent. As of November 2016, Agricultural Bank and its low-interest loan balance, which is used by agricultural loans, is $35.4 billion. In 2004, only 205,000 manufacturers took advantage of the application, while as of November 2016, 900,000 of our producers benefit from it. A subsidies loan is still used by the People's Bank for support of our tradesmen and artists with interest rates of between 0 per cent and 5 per cent. As of November 2016, the balance of trade loans used within this scope exceeds $20 billion. In 2002, 64 thousand of our tradesmen took advantage of such loans, which, as of November, exceeded 431,000. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk about the Loan Guarantee Fund. In fact, the next term is a time when we will use the Credit Guarantee Fund mechanism in a much stronger way to help our SMEs, especially our exporters, get access to financing to the economy. By means of the Credit Guarantee Fund, 11.590 firms have been granted treasury-backed loans. The total amount of loan used in July 2009-October 2016 reached $8.6 billion and the bail amount reached $6.1 billion. We have made new arrangements, which will enable the use of treasury bail for the Credit Guarantee Fund, and will enable more COBIs and exporters to respond to their needs. In this framework, we move on to the credit rating system to increase efficiency in credit approval processes in high volume loan bail demands. With the new opportunity for exporters, the bail rate will be raised to 85 per cent in direct loans provided by Eximbank (Eximbank) and to exporters by other banks. With additional resources available to the Credit Guarantee Fund, we plan to facilitate our firms' access to the loan. In addition, with the Portfoy Guarantee System, we will set the upper limit of the loan compensation to each bank separately. In this way, small-scale loans can be given directly to SMEs by banks without any application to the Credit Guarantee Fund. So we're cutting down on red tape. With this application, the process of loaning loans from the Credit Guarantee Fund and banks can be reduced in a few days. With the new arrangements in operation, the bail balance, which is $3 billion, will rise to $10 billion in the short term. In the next year, perhaps with the means to transfer from the budget, this amount will be raised to a much higher level. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been authorized by 2018 to transfer a source of $500m to the upper funds. Fifty million liras and 60m euros of this amount have been committed to two different funds. We aim to increase the total investment volume to 1.5 billion euros, as all resources amounting to 500m euros are transferred to the entrepreneurial ecosystem. As of December 2016, 409 angel investors' licenses were issued and 14 angel investment networks were registered, as well as about 50 angel investors, as well as the operation of the Individual Accession Capital System, the angel investor in 2013. The amount of angel investment in our country, which was 14.7m euros in 2013, grew by 110 per cent in 2015 to 31m euros. These applications are very important because if they really are at the beginning level, high-tech, at least in those areas, in terms of the mechanisms in which information is dense, technology will operate in dense areas, these are very important components of the ecosystem. As soon as we can actually complete reforms such as patent law, mass funding, development banking restructuring, in fact, Turkey will be able to replace all the components of the ecosystem, which are high-tech areas, which have high added value, the RD-sized ecosystem. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to inform you a little bit about the insurance industry. Mr. President, I may be running out of time, but if you'll excuse me, I'd like another ten minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0177par0521	You've got time, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0176par0522	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0177par0523	Let's give him ten more minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0176par0524	Thank you. One of the key components of the financial system is insurance and private pension sectors. During 2016, these sectors continued to grow. As of the second quarter of 2016, premium production increased by 35.5 per cent compared to the same period in 2015. At the end of 2016, we predict bonus production will exceed $42 billion. As the traffic insurance policy defaults, with the inclusion of the anti-responsors with judicial decisions and the lack of uncertainty in the damage payments, you know, problems have arisen in this area. We've made a legal arrangement in April this year in order to address the structural problem due to judicial implementation and clarify legal infrastructure. Structural problems stemming from the judiciary have been resolved in the pricing process. After the legal arrangement, by the end of November 2016, traffic insurance premiums dropped by about 8 per cent for all car groups, about 10 per cent for the automotive car group. In fact, it's more than we expected. We're in dialogue with the sector. We're predicting more important, higher declines. I believe that in the coming period, these arrangements...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0178par0527	Let's see how much goes up, then what percentage goes down, so we can figure it out.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0176par0528	Now, of course, they're changing a lot.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0178par0529	It's changing, isn't it? It's up 300 percent, down 8 percent.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0179par0530	Mr. Akar, Mr. Secretary, please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0178par0531	That's a great explanation, Mr. Secretary. That's a great one.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0179par0532	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0178par0533	That's a great explanation, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0180par0534	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk a little bit about the individual pension system. One of our country's most important problems is, you know, low savings. They've just expressed a valuable orator, and indeed the average savings rate in the world is over 25 percent. In countries with a middle income group like us, 32.5%. Unfortunately, in Turkey, it's around 14%. Now, of course, the need for investment is high, which makes itself clear, and the most important vulnerability area in Turkey is unfortunately low savings. Of course, we have taken really important steps to increase savings since 2013. In particular, we provide very strong support in the framework of the individual pension system to encourage savings. At a time when the treasury's debt interest is around 10 per cent, there is 25 lira state support for each additional $100 saved. However, a limited savings increase has been achieved so far. However, after 2013, there was a success, the number of participants rose from 3 million to 6.5 million people, and the fund size increased from $20 billion to 58.7 billion. But that's not enough, of course. Again, with an important reform we've done this year, we'll begin auto-accession from the beginning of 2017. Here, we maintain the 25 per cent state contribution in BES. We don't use the right to back down as incentives, but we allocate an additional $1,000 from the start to those who remain in the system. We have committed to those who retire from the system and want to get their savings in the form of annual income insurance, not in the form of collective money, but in addition to about 5 per cent of their savings. We've reached the final stage of our auto-accession work. In this framework, at the end of the next decade, we're predicting an additional $100 billion savings, additional savings. Our goal is to protect the welfare of our citizens during the working period during retirement.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0181par0537	Where will you protect $1,300 worth of prosperity?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0180par0538	...the benefits of the social security system are that they have a second pension guarantee. Mr. President, I'd like to say that I'm very concerned about the institutional management reform of the state-owned companies that are in the process of the project. With reform, we want to reorganise legislation that is not in accordance with current trade conditions, allowing these companies to operate in the way that commercial life requires, to increase their efficiency and efficiency to higher levels, and to become competitive on international platforms. Here, of course, our most important priority is transparency and accountability. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, have also been mentioned here on several issues concerning the Treasury Court reports. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to inform you of three findings that have affected your view of the audit report. First of all, we care deeply about the Court's supervision. Indeed, whether it's at the Treasury Department or now it turns out how useful an outside audit is, why? Because some of the things that we don't see as managers come to our attention, and we get a chance to fix them. We view him as an important guide, and we really appreciate the Court's supervision. Now, here's the finding that the Mint and the Stamp Printing Office's accounting department's assets, such as gold and silver, were not shown with real value in financial paintings. We talked about it at the Plan and Budget Commission. It's actually a matter of the Ministry of Finance, Istanbul bookkeeping. My parents rented a place in the Mint. A commission has been set up by the Finance Ministry Istanbul bookkeeping, and the work has been started.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0182par0543	Is it new?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0180par0544	Yeah. We've been given information about the outcome of these studies in three or four months, so, in fact, it's not really the issue of the Treasury, but I've brought it to your attention again. Secondly, there's evidence that non-departmental subsidiaries are not being processed into accounting records. As part of the find, in 2015, we launched studies on accounting for non-results in the Ministry of Finance. In the first place, we completed the accounting process of the main buildings and additional buildings and reported it to the central treasurer, so we did the main work. (EC PARTY Applause) We're just missing one thing, and we're going to complete it soon, which is that the process of Lojmaning continues. By the end of this year, I believe we will have completed the necessary work of this one. There is a third finding, which is this: the state-run Anadolu Agency is not fully involved in the accounting records of its right to the Treasury on the shares that are owned by Turkey's Anonymous Company. The Intifa right to our Undersecretary's share of $500,650, which corresponds to 50.065% of the Anadolu Agency, was registered on 14/11/2016 under the Finance Ministry's view. We thank the court for their findings. We've taken the necessary steps in almost all three matters. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I hereby again wish that the budgets of the institutions we've discussed here will be good for our country, for our nation. I salute you all with love. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0183par0551	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0184par0555	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary first, he's given some really important information, especially these sensitivity analysis, which is a little bit of a relief for us. But I think I have two questions for a better explanation, Mr. Secretary, or, you know, he needs an explanation. One: This public finance protects us from shocks. You said. How much is that? I'd appreciate some information on that. But that part is open to interpretation, but in terms of numbers, I think there's something we need, Mr. Secretary. Now, you know, we have public-private cooperation projects, you mentioned them. You said the guarantees, are there any public-special cooperation projects in them? That's what I want to know. Now, in this year's Plan Budget Commission, Mr. Development Minister said that public-private co-operation projects total contract amounted to $122.1 billion, so they used that figure in terms of liability, $122.1 billion. Now, of course, we have two risks here as a government. What's this? Possible obligations. I mean, you know, in English...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0185par0559	Complete, please, just a minute...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0184par0560	So how much risk are we dealing with, how much risk do you predict, first of all, that's very important. Second: Of course, we'll pay rent under a number of public-special cooperation projects. What are the possible obligations in this sense, Mr. Secretary? Third: I see that there is a risk of interference that has arisen a little bit recently, which is that some prices, for example, cannot be applied for reasons such as a lot of dollars, are going to be paid back to those companies because of public intervention. I think it's very important for the markets if he tells us about the risks involved. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit04spe0186par0564	Mr. Secretary, I think you can answer the question-answer part. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0186par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Executive Account for 2015 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2015 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2017 2) Prime Ministership Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The President of the Religious Works' Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) The Head of Religious Affairs 2015 Central Management Terminate Account RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasure 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now on behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivor will speak. Here you go, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0187par0057	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I bid you all good evening. I hope the general budget of the 2017 budget and the budget for the institutions we're talking about today will be good for our country, for our nation. With all due respect to the House, if the budget is approved, I wish this budget would be useful for the public's service. First of all, it is a great success in Turkey's democracy that you, the representatives of the nation, are talking the budget of 2017, under the roof of the Veteran Assembly, as it is said in today's talks. If that treacherous attempt on the evening of July 15th had been successful, none of the four political parties would be here today, perhaps the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will be led in some other way, the government of the Republic of Turkey and all the elected institutions and institutions of Turkey, a coup administration would have been a problem for Turkey, the nation. So I'd like to express to you that we need to appreciate these budget negotiations here today. I also want to say thank you to all of our fellow lawmakers, who have contributed positively to these negotiations from the start. Again, as we discuss the 2017 budget under the roof of this House, I think it's my duty to remind each and every one of us, one and all of us, as the official person of our Parliament, that we all owe our lives to 248 martyrs, our loyalty debt once again. I pray for God's mercy to all our fallen martyrs, and to heal our veterans. I'd like to express my condolences to our 79 million nations who returned from the edge of the cliff that night, and to our citizens. My fellow lawmakers, who have seen great betrayals throughout Turkey's history, have faced many backstabbings, obstacles, roadblocks, betrayals, but without overstatement, the biggest betrayal Turkey has ever faced on the night of July 15th, is the biggest betrayal the Anatolian lands have ever seen. Thus, our fight against this betrayal will continue with determination. Again, it has been voiced in the talks here today, and I know a debt of gratitude to our friends, about 150 deputies, from all the parties that continue to hold Parliament's work open on the night of July 15th, especially our Speaker. The fight that began that night will continue decisively to the end. I think it's probably the greatest response to all of us standing together in this struggle, all of us sharing a national stance on the future of the nation, the future of the nation, and the future of the nation, to the coup d'états of July 15th. After July 15th, Turkey began a new era. This also indicates that we should abandon our habits before July 14th. First of all, we are obliged to develop a new language, a new rhetoric and a new style, and protect Turkey's national interests in Turkey's decision-making, Turkey's Grand National Assembly special and Turkey's politics. This is one of the basic requirements of our loyalty to our martyrs, our debt of life. My fellow lawmakers, until Turkey faces the coup attempt, as you know, are in a multilateral and intense terrorist environment, starting from July 2015. Turkey, so to speak, is no longer a war on terrorism, but a war on terrorism. On the one hand, the terrorist actions set by the PKK (PKK) on the other hand are another of our national issues that all of us must fight in a common fight. In this framework, not only terrorist activities within Turkey's territory, but also developments in Syria and Iraq, political turmoil there, and military developments there are of extraordinary importance during the period when Turkey has passed a really sensitive point towards terrorism. My dear friends, as we all followed, the civil war that began in Syria starting in March 2011 continued three years in what we might call three wars, the second three years in which we were in this period became a sharp battle of power of attorney. In Syria alone, these power of attorney wars produced a result of the deaths of over 600,000 innocent people. In addition, the common struggle against the terrorist group, which is called "DEASY," has turned into a complete mess, unfortunately, as the international community failed to maintain a common commitment. A strategy began to emerge in the major cities of the region, such as Aleppo, Cerablus, Rakka, Mosul, as we sweep the DEASI from here, leaving the inhabitants of these cities aside, saying that the deployment of a new group of armed groups, terrorist organisations, would not contribute to regional peace. Yes, let's remove the DEAS from Mosul, but let's not place another group, Hasidi Shabi. Or another terrorist organization, Pyd. Our thesis from the very beginning is that we are trying to convince the international community that all these cities should be freed from the DEAS by the people of these cities again, if they will support the international community, give support to the local peoples of this area, and let the people of that region, the people of those cities, come and settle in their cities. The example of Cerablus, which Turkey used with the Fırat Shield, is a successful example, and Cerablus came to Cerablus with 45,000 Cerablus and sat after the operation. My fellow lawmakers, this war environment in Syria and Iraq should be the first step towards the removal of this great political instability in Syria. As Turkey, we continue our negotiations with the international community with all our strength to contribute to the peace in Syria. However, as some understand it, we do not understand peace in Syria as a forceful peace imposed on the Syrian people during peace talks in some countries. Turkey will continue to contribute to a peace process that the Syrian people will agree to, with all concerned parties involved in Syria involved. In addition, the developments in this geography leave us with two major global problems. On the one hand, global terrorism, global immigration events, are far beyond being issues that only concern our region, Turkey. All world countries, especially the European continent, have become the first-degree focus of global terrorism and global migration. Thus, we are compelled to make a determination to resolve these problems at the root of the problems. In this framework, we see the issue of terrorism in the region as a reason for both the terrorist organisations and the immigration that has reached global scales, as a result. It is imperative that the reasons for these consequences be eliminated are eliminated. The world system on three key issues will not survive the threat of global migration and global terrorism in this region unless it finds a solution. On the one hand, military intervention and occupations in the countries of the region -- the process that began with the occupation of Afghanistan -- followed by the invasion of Iraq, and then the invasion of power wars of almost all armies around the world. For this to be eliminated, the period of military intervention and occupation must be ended. Furthermore, the second most important reason for terrorism and immigration in the region is the lack of despot governments, democracy and the failure of the majority of the population to participate in governance and decision-making processes. Without regional governances in the nation's governance and decision-making processes, we are convinced that there will be no way to prevent migration or global terrorism without moving in a full direction towards democracy's facility in the region. Furthermore, another fundamental reason is that the people of the countries of the region, especially young generations, cannot be part of the economic system. Lack of development, civil development, almost any development that concerns income distribution injustice, poverty, and almost life, are the main reasons behind terrorism and migration in the region. My dear friends, in all of this general framework, what we have to say is that the problem we're facing today is that global order has shifted from the axis of peace, and in this sense, there's absolute disarray in global order. It's impossible to talk about the existence of an international system that we're facing today, the existence of a system that operates with its institutions. Only when we look at two cases do we see it in full clarity. The first is the Ukrainian crisis, and the second is the Syrian crisis. The system's lack of solution to the Syrian and Ukrainian crisis is not only because the opinions of the relevant parties are very different, but because there is also an international mechanism that can solve global problems. For him, the issue of the restructuring of the United Nations, which we have on every occasion expressed, is one of Turkey's main issues in the following process. The world is greater than five. We try to draw attention to this structure of the international system, which has lost its ability to solve problems, not just to be rhetorical. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the developments in our region, the part of these developments that concerns Turkey, it's very difficult to find solutions if we talk about all these problems one by one. So to speak, there's a 3,000 to 5,000 pieces in front of us, and we can only take one, and if we try to talk about one of these pieces, we can't solve the problem, nor can we demonstrate a political perspective that can solve that problem. For example, setting off the bomb here on the evening of July 15th is just one of the parts of the puzzle. It is one of the only parts of the "puzzle" of "puzzle" to place bombs by digging holes in Turkey's capital in Turkey's southeastern Turkey. The death of many of our people in Gaziantep, by planting bombs on a 14-year-old child, is only part of the "puzzle." Or that most of the world's countries, in the operations in Rakka, in Mosul, use their tongs to fight a power of attorney there, or that the human tragedy in Aleppo is just a single part of it. We have to see the big picture. If we don't see the big picture, we need to understand that every word we say is unrequited, that every word is unresolved. The great picture is this: A century ago, among the peoples of this region, people, relatives, villages, and towns, the will to artificially draw the boundaries of the first Sykes-Picot, and then a century later the second Sykes-Picot. So, they're trying to break the minds and hearts of the people of the region, where they can't divide their hearts and minds, by putting more roots in what they did a century ago. They want Turks, Arabs, Kurds, Farisis, all the people living in this geography to fight each other over ethnic discrimination or sectarian discrimination; that's the big game. This is a picture of thousands of pieces, which appeared in the puzzle, with the second Sykes-Picot, to tear the region to shreds. In this division, there is not a single preparation for the benefit of the Turks or the Kurds or the Arabs or the Persians or any other people in the region. So, in the face of the reality of this big picture, we all need to be seriously united within the framework of our national interests, and we need to be in a state of integration that oversteps our national boundaries and protects the interests of the people of the region. Yes, on the second Sykes-Picot two fault lines, as it divides borders in this geography over ethnic discrimination and sectarian conflicts, it now tries to divide hearts and minds. They're going to try to divide, and it's going to fall on Turkey to integrate more and more the geography they're trying to divide. In this framework, I would like to emphasize that we are obliged not only to say what we say politically, but also to pay attention to what we speak in everyday languages. Such a perception operation is being conducted in such a way that, for example, the terrorist groups in the Middle East or the armed groups in the Middle East are being spoken of, instead of being told the names and identities of these organisations, groups and groups, their sects, their professions, and their ethnic origins. For example, it's called the militias, it's called the Kurdish militia, it's called the Turkish militia, it's called the Sünni militias. Tell me, for God's sake, is this terrorist organization called DEAS an organization that represents Sunnis? Or is the Hasidi Shabi an organization that represents the Shiites in the region? Or is the PYD-PKK an organization that represents all of our Kurdish brothers? No, it's not. Therefore, we are obliged to pay attention to the language we speak in this area. If we're going to mention the name of an organization, for example, in a news report about Mosul, call it the name of an organization, call it Hashdi Shabi. Why are we in the words that will facilitate the plans of the second Sykes-Picot fans, who, by expressing their ethnic origins, people's sects, their professions, will be used to fuel the bread of international imperialism in this sense? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm talking as fast as I can to use as little time as possible, and I know you're exhausted.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0188par0079	Sir, Parliament, the more negotiations we have here, the better quality of legislation.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0187par0080	Thanks, but I'm also looking at the clock so I don't have to tire you out any longer.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0188par0081	This is the place to talk, please.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0189par0082	You have time, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0188par0083	If there's CHP, it's for everyone, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0189par0084	Don't mind the sign. You've got time.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0190par0085	I know I've got time, but my friends are really tired.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0191par0086	Yes, sir, you have time. You can use extra time.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0190par0087	Thanks.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0192par0088	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0190par0089	Dear friends, after this general discussion, I say this in particular: We all lived July 15th. July 15, 79 million in common, July 15, 79 million in common, but I want to remind him that July 15, July 15th, the evening of July 15th is not over. I'm just saying that after July 15th, this may be a long struggle, not just the D.E.A. side, not just the PKK side, but that it's a total national struggle with all the other parties. Each one of these organizations is not only against the ruling party, but against one political party. What these organisations have in common is the integrity and unity of the region's people, Turkey's national interests and prevent Turkey from moving forward as a strong, large Turkey. So we'll do the opposite. Yes, we're going to have different ideas here, we're going to talk, we're going to argue, we're going to argue, we're going to argue from the top of our voice, but we know that our country is one, our country is one, our history is one, our future is one, our flag is one, our civilization is one. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] My dear friends, again, one of the many things that has been talked about during today's talks is the matter of religion. Yes, after July 15th, the necessity for religious perception, religious thinking, religious life, to be re-examined in a proper and genuine way was once again revealed in Turkey. It was once again understood that closed organisations have harmed Turkey, as well as a series of closed organisations that refer to it as a religion. So it is the duty of the seminary, particularly the Dianet organization, and of everyone who has a view of religious life and tradition in Turkey. In this sense, the Society of Religious Affairs strives to continue its mission in and out of Turkey. In particular, I'd like to emphasize two more important threats on the global scale that we face today. One is the work of Islamophobia, and the other is the matter of extremism that is symbolised on the DEAS. In this sense, Turkey must strive, on the one hand, to fight this fight through the Religious Organization, while on the other hand, to re-create Islamic sensibilities in Turkey. In this sense, religious life is the same for Turkey; every country, every tradition, every civilization has a tradition; it is not only theology; it also holds tradition. In this sense, the tradition that we've been carrying on for centuries on the land of Turkey is a great civilization, a great tradition that comes from the Fergana Valley, through the Horasan people, with Haci Bektas Velis, Hajji Bayram Velis, Ahmet Yesevis. This tradition has established an understanding that has a door for everyone in this country. Some of our friends are misunderstanding, but once again, this tradition has three visible institutions in this land. One of them is a mosque, one is a madrassa -- the school's name is today -- and one of them is the headquarters, the techno, the stoves. The names of the towers of Alevi are the furnaces, and the names of the synopsis are the camp. All three of them have a common feature of having their door open to everyone. Anyone who has a hand, tongue, and waist comes to these institutions, takes advantage of them, takes advantage of them; if they take advantage of them, they will rise within the rules of that institution. Now, I would like to emphasize that in this sense, we have the obligation to recreate this opening of the religious tradition in Turkey. In this framework, the responsibility of our Religious Affairs organization in particular is to restore mosques to its former function, which is to make them open to everyone. Everyone's going to take advantage of...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0193par0096	Cemevler...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0190par0097	I'll be there. It's the custom of the barracks and of the javelins.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0193par0098	Do you have anything on your Cemevs?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0190par0099	Thanks, and the rest of the stove is the same tradition. There's no problem, everyone maintains their own tradition, everyone maintains their own tradition, but as a result, we need to ensure that they're open to everyone. In this framework, the President of Religious Affairs, religious high-priority centres, international imam-gathering schools, and international seminary schools, are fulfilling their responsibilities to ensure that people from 65 countries can properly study religion, try to activate their foreign diplomatic missions. With 52 counselors, 38 attaches and 12 coordinators, they continue to work. It contributes to publishing with religious publications that address people at 1,275 different levels. With a new concept of mosques, the community's business centre strives to fulfill its responsibility to make it a socializing area for children. In this framework, I'd like to share a decision that we made this Monday with our citizens once again. Our citizens who are going to visit the pilgrimage and the Umra will no longer pay the pilgrimage and the Umre by dollar, and will pay the Turkish money starting Monday. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] And about the new Constitutional studies...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0194par0103	Make sure the TVs have satellite exits for Turkish lira, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0190par0104	Yes, we're talking to TurkishSAT.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0195par0105	We're listening, Mr. Secretary of Law.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0190par0106	We'll pay for it as Turkish money.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0196par0107	Mr. Secretary, how does Saudi Arabia feel about this? About the dollars, Saudi Arabia...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0190par0108	We're going to stabilize all of this.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0197par0109	Local TVs are dead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0198par0110	Mr. Secretary, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0199par0111	We made Turkish money and I hope Saudi Arabia accepts it. Saudi Arabia likes green because it has a weakness for green color.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0200par0112	One of the issues that was being discussed here was the new Constitutional studies. Turkey needs a democratic reform process. In this democratic reform process, we've been talking for years about the changes in four basic texts that are important steps to democratize Turkey, and we're expressing views on them. One of them is to make a constitutional reform in Turkey with a comprehensive constitutional amendment; the second is to correct Parliamentary Civil Code; the third is the Election Law; and the fourth is the Law of Political Parties. We'd like to find the opportunity to do a very comprehensive constitutional reform on this matter of constitutional change. But we've prepared two proposals from the beginning. One is a full reform amendment, another is a constitutional amendment, a limited change that will allow the transition to the presidential system or the presidential system in Turkey. In the end, as the EC PARTY, as the ruling party, we don't have the majority in Parliament to propose a constitutional amendment. Politics isn't just about your ideals, it's about reality. So, at least it took some serious work to find a number that would lead to the nation, in which the nationalist Movement Party's stance from the beginning, mutually, the negotiations were done in a clear, transparent way and reached a certain point. So, hopefully, as soon as possible, the relevant constitutional amendment package will arrive at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and hopefully, after that, we'll find 367, but if it finds 337, we'll go to the nation and face a referendum. My dear friends, our hearts desired that we could make a constitutional amendment, constitutional reform, a very comprehensive political reform in Parliament. We couldn't do that, but the need for a new constitution in Turkey, even if the current constitutional amendment package passes through parliament, even if it passes through the nation, it will not be removed. Thus, in Turkey, a democratic constitutional reform that will strengthen parliament, parliament, politics, will become one of the key issues of Parliament in the coming period.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0201par0115	Minister, in extraordinary circumstances, the constitution doesn't change. Is there an example in the world?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0200par0116	Dear friends, there's also a few things during the talks, so if you'll excuse me, I'd like to express our views on them for a few minutes. Our friend Ahmet Yıldırım said all TVs broadcasting in the native language or in different languages have been turned off. Currently, 30 televisions -- I can read the list here, one by one -- broadcast in 30 television and radio languages or in their own language; Zazaca, Kurdish, other publications, only 8 TVs have been turned off.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0202par0118	Mr. Secretary, you're giving us all the wrong information.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0200par0119	Here's the official stuff of all of them.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0202par0120	I worked at that agency.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0200par0121	Second of all, I'm sorry to answer the concrete questions.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0203par0123	Congressmans, please, we're listening, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0200par0125	A friend of ours, Mithat Sancar Bey. The President is responsible and therefore has a relationship with all concerned institutions, I said, by reminding him of the article 104. The implementation of the Constitution is a matter of the President to ensure that state bodies work regularly and in harmony. I'm not in a position to say that the judgment rests with the President. It's a twisted word, a mispronounced word -- I'm not saying it's misunderstood -- and it's a promise I didn't say, and I'm saying it's an expression in that sense. So, dear friends, Turkey is heading towards a new era. Let's hope for the next semester...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0204par0127	Mr. Secretary, there's no Speakers, no Republics at airports; what do you say about that?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0200par0128	It's not forbidden, dear, everyone's broadcasting, everyone's broadcasting.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0204par0129	There's Akit, there's New Dawn, there's Evening, there's no Speaker at any airport, there's no Day.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0205par0130	Mr. Secretary, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0200par0131	Everyone's broadcasting. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0206par0132	At the airport, he says, "It's not being distributed at the airport."
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0207par0133	Our money buys newspapers we don't want to read, Mr. Secretary. Would you be so kind as to inform me...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0208par0134	Mr. Secretary, please don't talk to me in person, will you please address the General Assembly?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0209par0135	Dear friends, the coup d'état...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0207par0136	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0208par0137	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0207par0138	Very sincerely, Mr. Secretary, do we have to study New Akit at airports?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0210par0139	We are very clear that after the coup, Turkey's issue did not end on the evening of July 15th. On the evening of July 15th...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0207par0140	Do we have to read New Dawn?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0211par0142	Mr. Agha, please.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0207par0143	Mr. Secretary, I beg you very much, I ask you with sincerity. For example, why not read the Speaker? Republican, why shouldn't we read the Daily newspaper, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0211par0144	Mr. Agha, please.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0212par0145	Whatever paper you want, there's no reason for it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0207par0146	But you don't teach, you give Akit, Akit, New Akit, New Dawn, Calendar, Star.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0212par0147	Now, dear friends...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0207par0148	I swear to God...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0213par0149	Mr. Agha, please, excuse me.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0212par0150	Go ahead, talk to him. What am I supposed to do?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0207par0151	From the bottom of your heart, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0213par0152	Mr. Agha, please!
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0207par0153	Sir, I'm asking you a question.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0213par0154	You're breaking order, please! Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0214par0156	Dear friends, look, Turkey went through a ordeal on July 15th. No one can doubt that our fight after July 15th will continue. I want to make it clear once again that we all have to take a common position on national matters. These coupists don't like the AK PARTY, but they don't like the Republican People's Party very much, so I'm saying the same thing for all of us -- I'm saying the same thing for the other parties -- we have to make an effort to improve democracy in Turkey, but it doesn't happen in a way that interferes with the fight against this AKP organization, the fight against other terrorist groups. In this sense, all of us -- however many years, however long it takes -- will be accounted for by anyone who's connected to this organization, who's attached to it. That's why I express it, and I've said it on several television shows: I think that Fair Orphan -- let me say it by name -- is just a shadow; that's what my political experience tells me, and I don't say it with any knowledge. Who is behind this coup, literally number one, number two -- friends have asked -- if the coup had succeeded, who would have been brought to work, this information has not yet been reached, this information has not yet been reached. They have to be reached...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0215par0157	You have the list.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0214par0158	They're just a list of martial law.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0216par0159	The commission will also be open.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0214par0160	Thanks. This will all come out in court. Look, there are constant statements in the courts.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0217par0163	The Strike Research Commission is clear, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0214par0164	Of course. In independent courts, these statements will appear, and some people will reveal their work by taking advantage of regret. This is a difficult struggle. Look, don't confuse this fight with the fight against September 12th; don't confuse it with the fight against March 12th. All previous military coups have been led by a military junta, which is clearly what happened before, but this coup was carried out by a very complicated, hand spread all over the state, focusing within the state for nearly 40 years, unfortunately, by a gang that had taken over the state. In fact, I'll even say that some of them walked in the snow, and they didn't show their footprints. So, in this struggle, please, if you're sincere, we expect your support in this struggle -- we have no doubt about your certainty. This struggle is Turkey's joint issue. During this struggle, look, and make sure that whoever is in this organization, next to you, to the right, to the left, will be questioned. It's not who it is, and if there's been a mistake here, those mistakes will be cleared up. As a matter of fact, the situation of those who had been terminated and those who had been wronged has been corrected. Again, it's because a friend of ours means something. A television channel was interrupted due to lack of information, and then it was allowed to open because reports showed that the initial information was wrong. In addition, additional reports have been asked to get a radio -- my CHP friends -- back on the air, and it turns out that this radio is not doing anything harmful. So you're saying it's a matter of state of emergency. I'm sorry, it's a matter of state of emergency... no government is willing to do the state of emergency, but Turkey is obliged to implement the state of emergency... because we're at a tremendously high level of security risk. On the one hand, the DEAS, the PKK, the threats from Syria and Iraq, on the other hand, a terrorist organization that is seriously clustered inside the state, a cancer cell that is all over the place, you're fighting it. I'm sorry for some of the responses from abroad in the implementation of the state of emergency, but did you hear a single person from Europe say three sentences, for God's sake, when the state of France is performed?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0218par0167	Don't even compare it, Mr. Secretary. Don't compare it to France. What does that have to do with anything? What does France have to do with your method?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0219par0168	Mr. Secretary, please, France and Turkey...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0214par0169	Also, I would like to point out: Can you tell us who made a noise when hundreds of thousands, thousands of people were laid off during the unification of Germany, when officers from East Germany were removed from the European law? Yeah, well, we're very particular about this... and I'm sorry, justice is an important weight on our shoulders, too. We don't want to be unfair to even one person, but let's not bring water to the mill of a perception operation by going behind the word "victims" every once in a while in this struggle. There are no victims in this country, we have 79 million people in this country trying to victimize, 248 martyrs. We're all going through these difficult times. In the economy, Turkey will continue to be a stable country in politics, with Allah's permission. Turkey, how...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0220par0170	Minister, will the satellite prices of these local televisions return from dollars to dollars?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0214par0171	They're still in negotiations, and we told them on Monday, so hopefully they'll fall.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0220par0172	When are you going to give the local television the good news?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0214par0173	Hopefully, it'll be over soon. Thank you for your sensitivity to local television. Dear friends, thank you all. I'm not saying this to be polemic, but we're going to make this fight work with determination. I'd like to repeat what I said at first: this geography has been a scene of many betrayals. With many elegant footplays, we've moved past the time when this nation's future was, unfortunately, tried to be blackened. Make no mistake, this people, this caravan will walk. No matter who sets up a conspiracy, no matter who, no matter what vehicle he uses in the power of attorney war, no matter what terrorist organization gets into trouble with Turkey, no matter what perception operations they set up in front of Turkey, we'll pull them all aside and hopefully continue our course in the direction of strong, great Turkey. May God make our way clear. I want to thank you all. Have a good day.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0221par0177	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0222par0178	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0221par0179	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0222par0180	Mr. Secretary said I also remembered my name and removed some information from the context. I'd like to make a correction on that, and I'd like to speak in accordance with the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0221par0181	Now, he didn't tease you, he told you... you said there was no broadcaster in his native language. He said, "There are 30 broadcasters in Kurdish right now. " That's all there is to know about you. Where's the insult in that, Mr. Lightning?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0222par0182	Mr. President, look, I'm telling you, I spoke with the knowledge that you worked on that board for four years. The Minister has nothing to do with this. It tells you with the information that's been put in front of you that I think you're missing something, and I want to talk about bullying, thinking that my claims are true, that they're being tried to be nullified.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0221par0183	Now, look, why am I asking you this, Mr. Lightning, if you want to make a statement, you have to do it from your place.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0222par0184	No, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary did something about my speech from the stand.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0221par0185	But now, I remind you, Mr. Lightning, let's not break the rules. I'll take the stand if you say there's a challenge.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0222par0186	I want it without teasing.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0221par0187	And I'm telling you, he didn't mess with you. If you're going to make a statement, please, I promise you from your position, make your statement.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0222par0188	Mr. President, teasing doesn't just involve an insult to me. You know that very well. I claim that my speech was removed from the context.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0221par0189	Okay, here you go. I'll give you two minutes for the speech he was cut off from his context.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0222par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't doubt the Minister's good intentions because he doesn't have the chance to control the radio and televisions that are licensed there. I worked for four years. Mr. Secretary, I wish he'd come out here and count eight radios and television names. Yes, the cartoon channel has been opened. They made you say -- look, you say it after that -- it hasn't been opened yet, the investigation continues. The music channel didn't open. On the other hand, let me tell you, after the first election of November 1st in this House -- Mr. Secretary will remember well -- I had the long talk about the first Sykes-Picot. So, so far, what did this state do in a hundred years to unify the fault lines that Sykes-Picot had uncovered in the first century, or what did the political government do in order to eliminate the fault lines that Sykes-Picot had uncovered during its 14 years of power?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0223par0196	There's so much...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0224par0197	He built a wall!
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0222par0198	I'll just say the last two years, then. For God's sake, let's put aside the party identity of each of us: in the last two years, the practices developed in the region have not brought the people of the region close to the state. You don't arrest the MPs, arrest the mayors, appoint trustees, make the people straight from AKP, you don't serve the blood supply, you don't increase the sense of ownership and ownership of the people of the region. We're going through a process where violence triggers violence, and as a whole of sanity, we're going through a process where both Parliament and those who run the country and those who run the country have lost it. So I'm going to say, look -- let's say a ditch or another -- the answer to the ditch wasn't to destroy the entire city, but there were reasonable solutions. For two and a half years, this country experienced a process where the blood of a young man was not shed. From power, opposition, civil society, anyone who contributes to this process... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...God bless you, but this is not the way.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0225par0201	Mr. Lightning, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0222par0202	The more we kill, the more I say this country or the government won't make, the more I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0226par0204	What happened to singing TV?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0222par0205	I'm expecting from the minister, I've named eight Kurdish channels, eight.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0227par0206	Mr. Lightning, please, take your seat. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0228par0208	I'll leave it to the question-answer so the polemics don't continue.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0227par0209	You leave it to the question-answer, fine. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0229par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0230par0212	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0227par0213	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0229par0214	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, you're carrying water into the mill, saying that you're the victims of the victim. He accused us. We'd like to exercise our right to answer that question.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0227par0215	No, on the contrary, the Republican People's Party has done you a great deal of harm." he said.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0229par0216	No, I'll tell you that, sir, but in part of the Minister's speech, you'd be carrying water into his mill by talking about the victims, talking about them, while saying that the coup was done against all of us." he said.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0231par0217	I didn't say that to you, I said it in general.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0227par0218	He didn't tell you that; no, he didn't tell you that.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0229par0219	We're saying there are victims. It's clear that Mr. President and this criticism are a criticism of which group -- or other groups -- if they're being taken -- that they're entitled to it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0227par0220	It's not just the parties, Mr. Special. There's people writing, drawing, talking on the media-release organs. It's not just parties. I think the Minister said that in general.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0229par0221	I'm a politician and a...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0227par0222	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0229par0223	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0232par0224	Mr. Numan specifically told us by looking at our group.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0227par0225	We're so touchy, so touchy.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0229par0227	Mr. President, in this matter, let alone the touchy-feely, we have been a group not since December 17th or 25th, but for 17 to 25 years, pointing out the danger of this GERP, saying it must be dealt with. We have carefully followed and listened to the right tone and the correct tone of approach by the Minister. But you have to tell Mr. Secretary that there are no victims. If you say, "There are hundreds, thousands of victims, it's the right of the subject to whom you say you're being sensitive if nothing happens." A police chief's wife was removed from her home when she was eight months pregnant in the Turgutlu district of Manisa, and her bank accounts were confiscated; her husband may have been a lawyer, but if she had been a serial killer, she would not have been expelled from the office. When he went to the hospital, he wasn't checked out, he couldn't take his meds. Now here, even though his wife is number one in the blow, you need to see the victim of the baby in his belly, the mother carrying that baby. As the Republican People's Party, on the sixth day of the coup, you turned our open support for the fight against the coup against you, declaring the State of Emergency, and impugning all political party groups in this parliament with political ingratitude. Now that you've created an O.R. environment that's taking the country's oxygen, you can't talk about the Constitution in this environment, you can't talk about law, you can't talk about democracy. The antidote to the previous coup is that the vaccine against the next coup threat is democracy, freedoms, social consensus, raising the peace environment. (HPP clapping in rows) Otherwise, the admirable behavior will only do the same for the next one, just as you allowed the building blocks of this blow to be placed earlier. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0233par0233	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0234par0234	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0233par0235	Mr. Sancar...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0234par0236	My name came up, but I don't want to, so let's not have that argument again. For the same reason that we want to speak, we want to say that we are the victims of...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0233par0237	Okay, two minutes. Sensibility continues. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0235par0241	Shame on those who need to be sensitive to speak of opposition, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0233par0242	There's no such thing, it's your perception.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0236par0244	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Secretary has made a statement about a place in my speech. I've checked your quotes, Mr. Secretary, from various media and websites. You said it was a misunderstanding. I was already surprised when those words were written in your mouth because I'm one of those people who think you're not going to use such an expression, and I'm one of those people who think you don't have that kind of understanding, but here's the article, and I'll read it, and if it's wrong, let's fix it again, or you can correct it later. I don't read it, I read it here, but that's not the only problem with judicial independence, it's just my speech as a symbol. There have been huge problems in the field of judicial independence, as reported by international organisations related to Turkey for a long time, not only from us -- not counting names -- but from all major international organisations. Besides, when we look at the index of trust in the judiciary, it crawls on the ground. That's enough to show you've got big issues in the field of judgment. The other has no victims. There is a mistake when you say, Mr. Secretary, because with this extraordinary practice of state, great sacrifices have been created. There's no need to count these victims one by one, calling them "the victim" doesn't change the situation. Another is that you were able to identify 130,000 people about the coup, you fired them; 30,000, 40 people are in custody for alleged involvement in the coup. How could you have identified them so easily, but the political staff was missing? You can't add to your claim to fight the coup unless you explain it, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0237par0250	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0238par0251	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0237par0252	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0238par0253	For the same reason, I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0237par0254	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0238par0256	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, of course, I think it's best to be a little careful when we're talking about it. There is no sacrifice, there is no sacrifice. Or, you know, carrying water into his mill. Now, first of all, as the Nationalist Movement Party, we didn't cross paths in any phase of history, when we were not in the congregation, when we were not in the parallel state, or when we were in the parallel state; for once, let's make this determination. There should be no yawning, and let's make that determination. On the other hand, Mr. President himself said: "The horse's mark is mixed with the dog's mark." I mean, we get so many complaints, it's wrong to say you're not a victim. There are serious casualties in the fight against Å, serious errors are being made. These mistakes aren't supposed to be detected and an innocent person's nose bleeds. But we also have to come to the conclusion that even if it's a victim, even if it's a person, the law of one person is important. However, no one should be involved in any position that would harm the fight against the victim. Now, here today I am warning the ruling group. Mr. Minister, the first thing to do in the fight against CHP is the Parliament, the politicians outside this parliament, the mayors. I mean, there's so many mayors in the city, there's so many serious allegations about them. We're throwing people out of business because they walked past the bank without any charges, no defenses, no charges. These shouldn't be done either. Such behaviors will damage the fight against Ankara. Our sensitivity as the National Movement Party is this: the fight against the National Movement must be done in the strongest possible way, but let's not butter the people's bread while the struggle is being fought. There are new soldiers coming to us, to rub the hands of those who want to be hit in this country, to come to us. We must not enter into an attitude like that... that will make them happy. The fight has to be very careful. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0239par0263	Mr. Bostanci, have you requested a word?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0240par0264	No, no, no. I don't have anything to say. He says.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0241par0265	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0239par0266	Mr. Bostanci, let me make you a promise.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0242par0267	I'll talk my way out of it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0239par0268	Here you go. And then, finally, I'll give it to Mr. Pekşen, and it's over.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0243par0270	Mr. President, it's a very important matter.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0239par0271	Mr. Tanal, please... Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0243par0273	Look, the Minister couldn't defend his rights. There's Law 5651. The 9th article predicts that this will be taken off the air if false news has been made.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0239par0274	Okay, they'll do it later.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0243par0275	If there's a CHP, it'll defend the minister's rights, Mr. President, I've made a promise to tell you that.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0239par0276	Okay, fine. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0244par0280	Mr. President, thank you. It's important to fight the fight, everyone agrees on it. The question is, are there problems during this struggle? In fact, if there are problems, all political parties transmit their applications to the government, and the government is doing a review of all of them. So it's a mechanism for victims, it's a medium, it's a work. But the thing is, we all have to be careful here: the coup of a dark and closed organization on July 15th, and from there, it's a counter-investigation. The government's fighting it. When it comes to seeing the real struggle, as a side effect, that the mechanisms for it work, and everyone supports it. The state, of course, is sensitive to making certain decisions, not one injustice being done, despite the difficulty of the incident, despite the closure of the organisation and is always open to investigations about it. Anyone can pass along whatever documents they have. It's a 40-year-old organization. Let's not forget that it wasn't from the beginning. By July 15th, that was understood. Two dates are fundamentally important here, and let's not forget: one is July 15th, one is December 17-25th, because they are both against the political power that is based on the will of the people in Turkey. They both share that quality, you have to see that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0245par0284	Thank you. Mr. Peksen, I promise you a moment of your time and I will invite him to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0246par0288	Thank you, Mr. President. I listened carefully to our Deputy Prime Minister. So far, I think we've just heard a new statement about the Constitutional Amendment. Because what was said earlier was that even if we did find 367, your political party, the government, had an opinion that even if we did find it, it would go to a public vote. But today, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister said that when they find 367, they won't go to the public. Did I get it wrong, is that the right idea, is that the idea? Secondly, the Deputy Prime Minister says they have taken every precaution carefully, carefully, again, in the fight against ▪. I'd like to know that the National Intelligence Agency gave them a list of 1,715 people before July 15th. On the night of the 15th of July, 1,715, the 1,685 of this 1,685 were in the square with guns. Then we'll know why they're not taking precautions, if he shares them with the public. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0247par0292	Thank you. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Executive Account for 2015 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2015 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2017 2) Prime Ministership Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The President of the Religious Works' Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) The Head of Religious Affairs 2015 Central Management Terminate Account RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasure 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account Now, on the contrary, Istanbul MP Mr. Barış Yardakash will speak. Here you are, my friend. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes. We've kept you waiting a long time.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0248par0347	I'd be a little more sensitive if I didn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0247par0348	Right, you're right. I'd agree.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0248par0349	We are journalists. It doesn't change the fact that we're in prison. We're still doing journalism inside. Inside, this week's topic was the loss of our children in Adana Aladağ. It's a disaster. 12 of our children are dying, 24 of our children are injured, and our wounded children are cold in their beds for healing. From the TV footage, we can't even heat up those houses. The kids sleep with the berets on their heads because they're cold. That's what the press is here to say. You're asking about us as journalists in prison. Our members of the Republican newspaper are not special. We don't have any special requests. Today, everyone who's in prison for using the freedom of speech, every writer, every journalist, until they're free, the problem is all of us. When arrested journalists are not free, none of us are free. Love and greetings from Silivri. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I have just read these words, and Cumhuriyet daily Editor-in-Chief Murat Soapcu, who has been arrested on false charges, has written on behalf of all journalists inside. In the letter of the Soapman who was prevented from doing his job, he stressed the situation in which he was more placed in the press than in the personal situation. Yes, indeed, our media has been seized by power. Look, journalist Aslı Erdogan has been held in prison for months, even though he has no responsibility for any report written according to the Turkish Penal Code. Aslı Erdogan has been taken from prison to the doctor exactly three times and is handcuffed during his transport, but despite this torture, he is not allowed to see the doctor. And Aslı Erdogan -- as you can see in this report -- is now at risk of being paralyzed. I showed this report by expanding it. Like Mr. Secretary, I'm not making it look as if Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ was holding a decontamination. Here's the truth. (CHP cheers) All the facts are written here.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0249par0355	Where's the wet signature, wet signature?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0250par0356	Good for you! You did very well, well done!
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0248par0357	Many journalists who have been thrown into prison have the same problems as Aslı Erdogan. Attila Stone has been lying for a hundred and twenty days with no questions, no indictments. The prisoner's trial is becoming a form of punishment. Look, we journalists love our profession despite all the pressure. As we perform our profession, we will carry this press card that the Press-Journal General Directorate has given us as a document. This press card is a card that shows our authority to ask questions on behalf of the public. Here's our photo, our name, the institution we work for. But this press card has now changed and become this because of the pressure of AKP power. Now the press cards don't have the names of the journalists, the institutions they work for anymore. It says here that 173 media companies have been shut down, 142 journalists have been arrested, 800 press cards have been revoked, and 3,000 more journalists have been unemployed since the emergency.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0251par0360	Since when does the career of a criminal become important?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0248par0361	Of course, that's not all there is to press pressure. Veli Ağbaba just told me about the Speaker's newspaper. As you can see, the spokesman is no longer able to buy public institutions' ads from TOKI, and other institutions, because he does not support the AKP. The newspaper's newspaper, the daily's Day, the Universal, the New Age, the Republic's lifeblood, is being cut off with public pressure. Of course, the AKP's government's actions are not limited to these. All the group commentators were arrested the other day. The court was not satisfied with that, and the workers who painted with money at the Idil Cultural Centre where group commentators worked were also subject to house arrest. Right now, all three of them are under house arrest. Every act of the AKP (AKP) is slaughtering democracy. The political crisis of this attitude leads us all to a major economic crisis. The AKP will not be able to solve this problem by cashing in the $3-5 in public pockets unless the government stops killing democracy. The way out of the economic crisis is to return to democracy, law and justice. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0252par0366	Thank you, Mr. Yfriend. Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process for 20 minutes. Ten minutes of 20 minutes are reserved for questioning, and the next ten minutes will be answered. I'll read the MPs who entered the system in order, and I'll give them my word. Dear Man...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0253par0369	Mr. President, thank you. We discussed the presidential budget today. What's the number of planes assigned to Mr. President who considers two or three cars a waste in one house? How many of these were purchased during the current term of the President and at what price? Again, how much are the vehicles assigned to the presidency, and how much do they cost? What are the number of advisers, chief advisors, and such status workers in the presidency? What's the monthly salary for those in question? In short, how much does the Presidential Palace cost, the total number of aircraft, the number of aircraft, with its advisors, with its staff, with its electricity, with its water, with its monthly expenses? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0254par0372	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0255par0373	The increase in dollars affects almost every sector in our country. As it is known, most of the vehicles in our country have spare parts coming from abroad. Increased OTV rates recently show that increased price indexed to dollars will also be reflected in traffic insurance and insurance fees. We also see that last April's arrangement did not compensate the citizens. Do you have any work to do on traffic insurance and a permanent solution to insurance fees? In 2015 and 2016, what was the number of cars that had insurance and insurance in the year, and how much was the premium paid? And what is the real cost of the illegal palace and the sum of the money spent so far? Again, what is the sum of monthly gas costs and electricity costs in the illegal palace? How much has it cost for organizations in the Palace to date? How many advisors do the President currently have? What's the monthly payment on these? The President's...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0254par0376	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0256par0377	Minister, you promised 750,000 subcontractors a year ago. Is there a source in the budget to hire subservient workers in the subcontractors and sugar factory, land roads, railways and other public workers for years in 2017? Will there be a staff in 2017? The rights won by the 4/C (C) people by collective agreement have not been implemented for 14 months. Is it considered in 2017 to provide equal rights to equal employment and improve wages? Is there an arrangement in the budget for teachers for the additional indicator to be 3600? Is a new arrangement expected in 2017 due to the fact that pensioners in retirement have earned pension rights? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0257par0382	Thank you, too. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0258par0384	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, all the agencies that are being budgeted today, if they have drivers, vehicles, I'm asking you, they've been sitting in those vehicles for about an hour now; those drivers get inside the building, that's a national fortune, that fuel is being consumed by counting. Please, I mean, it's good to save a little money and pay attention. My second question is, how many personnel work in the Prime Minister's office? How many vehicles, how many rentals, how much monthly expenses? How many buildings are in the prime minister's office, how many of these buildings are on rent, how much is the monthly rent? There are 20 organisations and foundations, such as ISIS (Islamics) who were tried in the Ankara Station massacre on October 10th, and the League of Youthful Ensars, Youth Ensar Society, the Association of Young Muslims, Corrections-Der, Turhans, Vahdet Foundation. They're said to be working again now under other names. Do you have any idea...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0259par0390	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0260par0391	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you're telling everyone: "Cash your dollars and convert the leases you made on the dollar into TL2. That's good. Will you convert the debt of the citizens who have received the property with a foreign currency loan to TL? Again, are you going to convert the do-and-work-in-the-dollar contracts to TL, such as the Osman Gazi Bridge, Victory Airport, and will you also attach the services from around here to TUFE? Again, will you convert the foreign currency loans used by businesses into TL? Also, is it true that Mr. Prime Minister hasn't spoken to the Undersecretary of the MIT since July 15th? All senior military officials say the MIT did not give them information on the matter. How many times has the MIT informed the Joint Chiefs of Staff that he should be discharged for the cause? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0261par0397	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0262par0398	Thank you, Mr. President. I've been roughly reviewing the 2017 budget. The grant for the chairman of the Religious Affairs is now more on my list than at least 10 ministries, more than the grant for the sum of regulatory and regulatory institutions. This enormous allowance from all of our citizens in this country, which has been collected in taxes, to the Dianetworks, is unfortunately not to be spent serving other members of the religious sects living in our country, except in different religious groups and in one religion of Muslims; we gave up their rights, we gave up equal citizenship, we gave up laws, the Constitution, and we gave up these, so you can think about how you're going to give up your rights in the presence of God. Mr. Secretary, do you intend to serve different religious groups and different sects living in this country with this enormous budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, which has been transformed into the backyard of power and has been completely driven away from its purpose, serving only one sect?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0263par0401	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0264par0402	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to ask about Friday's sermons. During the previous years, a special chapter in the Republic's Day chapter has been written in the newspapers where it has recently been abandoned. The day before the Republic Day we celebrated on Saturday this year, on Friday, there was not a word about the Republic's Day. According to media reports, Republic Day was last celebrated in 2012. I want to know why. My second question is: those who take the necessary training and become imam-members and start working for the Chairman of Religious Affairs begin their work and then move to other institutions. As of this year, what are the number of people who have been transferred to other institutions besides the chairmanship of the Religious Affairs during the AKP administrations? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0265par0407	Thank you, too. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0266par0409	Mr. Secretary, we have discussed the budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, which operates as an institution of denial and assimilation and undermines our social peace, our religious and moral values. I would like to remind you that our fellow believers have not been perpetuating their rights to the budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs during budgetary periods. He often mentions the names of Alevi elders and leaders of faith in the AKP. However, despite the high judgment and decisions of the EIHM, you ignore our fellow believers and their houses of faith. You only remember the Alevis to write at the top of the list to exclude people from hiring and lay off. I know you don't give up these discrimination policies that are a disgrace to humanity, but don't you ever mind? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0267par0412	Thank you. Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0268par0414	Mr. Minister, the presidential budget is estimated at $648m, up 50 per cent, according to 2016. Furthermore, the covered grant used by the President does not appear here. I'd like to ask the government: When the officer's salary increases by 3 per cent, while the inflation average is around 8 per cent, to what do you attribute the increase of the President's budget by 50 per cent? What pens did these increases occur in? If the presidency has requested additional funding within the year, how much is it? What's the total number of chief advisors working for the presidency? What's the monthly fee for a chief advisor who's being paid from the presidential budget? Are they paid for the road, tuition, housing? What's the annual cost of the chief advisors to the state?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0267par0415	Instead of Mr. Clumsy, Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0269par0416	Mr. Secretary, the government is calling for a continuous return of the dollar trade, saying the dollar deposit should be waived. From now on, do you plan to stop riding Mercedes, which is bought in dollars and bought in foreign currency, or do you intend to ride local cars produced by Turkish workers, especially you, Mr. Secretary? That's what I'm asking, I'm really curious. If you're making this call, you need to give up cars like Audi, like Mercedes, especially AKP MPs, or you know there's no dollar under his pillow under his seat. Another thing is... only the newspapers of your pool media are read in airports; newspapers like New Akit, New Dawn, New Calendar. You're making us read newspapers we don't want on our taxes. One day, Speaker, Republic, Universal newspapers can't get into these airports. Do you think you're getting the benefit of the doubt?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0267par0418	Thank you. Mr. Ministers, come in. You will answer in ten minutes, Mr. Ministers.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0270par0421	Mr. President, I'd like to thank our dear friends. I'm going to share with you some data from the relevant institutions. First of all, one of the questions was about how many personnel were employed in the prime minister's office. As of the end of October 2016, the prime minister's office has a total of 2,302 staff members, with 1,765 staff members, 180/i contracts, 313/short workers, 44/s.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0271par0424	Including those from other institutions, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0270par0425	Another question was about the subject of subcontractors, about our brothers and sisters working in that frame of service. Yeah, we made a promise last year. We're still working on that. Although the 2017 budget does not provide a special grant for this, the proposed model is based on the assumption that it was originally taken over the same financial rights. But, like I said, even if there's no funding in the budget, you know, it's the budget's policy to pay for wages, even if you can't afford it. Thus, work continues for our fellow workers, known as subcontractors, working within the scope of service. I'm sure it'll be shared with the public when it's done. Again, this dollar thing has come up a lot. What we're saying is that Turkey should not be held under pillows and gold; it should enter the system and the system should be stronger. In fact, we know that there's a very serious gold deposit in Turkey, some estimates that it's worth 180-200 billion dollars. So even those predictions, their participation in the system, of course, strengthens Turkey's economy in Turkey's financial system. So our call, or rather, our approach, is to get it into the system. Whatever species it is, as long as it's in the system, the system gets stronger, and those resources don't fall apart, they become savings, investments. So he can get to a position that supports the economy. As for this vehicle, I wish our country wasn't facing a relatively terror threat like Western Europe, and personally, I'd rather go to work on a bicycle.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0272par0428	Local car, local.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0270par0429	Now, if the local car, especially security, etc, has standards, of course, it can be considered, but, like I said, if there are no additional security sensibilities here, there would be a right approach to that frame you're talking about, of course. I thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0273par0431	Do you have a calendar for the contractors, Mr. Secretary? Or will the study continue again, until the end of 2017?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0270par0432	Let me put it this way: I mean, the last time I chaired a meeting in this frame, it's been a long way. There are additional studies on certain issues. It wouldn't be right for me to give you an exact date, after all, if the Council of Ministers might need a new legal arrangement, depending on that framework. So I don't think it's right for me to give you an exact date, but we have a promise, and we're still working on it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0274par0433	Minister, is there anything in the insurance, tax for this dollar's rise?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0275par0434	Mr. Survivor, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0276par0435	Now, if you'll excuse me, my dear friends, this matter of the victims of the Ankara has become a little bit more than feisty. I didn't mean any of you, not as a party, not as a person. What I'm saying is that one of the terms in Turkey's most despicable, most dishonest, perceived operations after an act of treason against Turkey is the term for victims. I also gave another example of how terrorist organisations are called by ethnic and religious identities. So let's not be a part of that perception. Yeah, no one's really madred about that? We do, too. These are being corrected, done, but as soon as you look inside the total -- just to remind you -- one week, 39 Turkish Armed Forces officers have been reinstated as generals, and the next week, a thousand or so military personnel have been thrown out of the gendarmes. This is a battle that will continue for a long time. No one innocent, no sin, no fault, no immaculate will be victimized here, and we're making the ultimate effort. There are 18,258 people who have also been extradited with the KHK, so there is no victim. It's a promise I make to express that we pay as much attention as you do. Don't worry, sooner or later the political staff will be exposed, and the truth behind this matter will be completely revealed. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, about the TV channels, friends, the list is here, the list...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0277par0438	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0276par0439	I don't know if you're talking to me, but...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0277par0440	Will he come to the House, all the way to the House?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0278par0441	Will he get out this year?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0276par0442	I've shown you the list, I can read it one by one. There are now eight TV channels that have been shut down.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0279par0443	And I thought it was a bylock list.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0280par0444	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0279par0445	We've been waiting for the list of members of the ByLock, that's okay. We know that, we know the other list...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0281par0446	Eight televisions have been banned in this sense. As of now, there are 30 television broadcasts going on. One of them is the directive for that cartoon, which was written as of this morning, is expected to be opened from TurkishSAT, and the process continues. Thus, our word is clear. A friend of ours said, from behind, a Republican People's Party friend... even if we find 367... yes, maybe the Republican People's Party Group would have friends who would say yes to the presidential or presidential system. Even if we find 367, once again, it's an important change for Turkey's politics -- even if we find enough majority in Parliament, it's our duty to take it to the nation. Even if he's over 367, we'll ask people about it because it's a historical change. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I don't need to read it one by one, dear friends, about the information of the MIT. In accordance with the powers vested in him by the laws in Turkey -- you know -- the National Intelligence Agency sorting information into certain categories and sending them to relevant state institutions according to these categories. Thus, the MIT regularly shares its information with groups that need to be shared at a level that needs to be shared. So I'd like to express that, too. A matter came up that the Prime Minister and the Undersecretary of the MIT did not meet. Dear friends, the state of the Republic of Turkey is a state run by prearranged meetings in a predetermined calendar with serious institutions. The Republic of Turkey is not a tribal state. We have a committee called the National Security Board. The national Security Council receives state-related domestic and foreign security threats with pre-preparations. In any case, the Prime Minister and the President of the National Intelligence Agency are members of the board. In the state's day, the National Intelligence Agency also negotiates with the highest levels of the state. One of the last things I'm going to say is, there are a lot of questions; how many vehicles are there in the presidency? How much is he going to warm up? Sir, how many counselors are there? We do not know these things. But, I'm sorry, folks, the office you call the presidency is an institution of the nation.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0282par0452	Okay, we're asking.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0283par0453	So let's know.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0281par0454	That's what we say, so we have this information right now, and we can give it to you at any time.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0282par0455	Give it to me.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0281par0456	Information's fine. What I'm standing on is that we're not talking about another country's presidency when we're talking about the presidency of the Republic of Turkey. The services there are done according to the requirements of these services.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0284par0457	Mr. Secretary, American dollars, American dollars, poor changers.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0281par0458	You have access to them, and you have access to whatever information you want.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0285par0459	Even you don't know.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0281par0460	But how many cars does the president have, how many planes? As far as I'm concerned, the matter of the plane -- the President, the Prime Minister and all the relevant agencies of the state -- gathers in a pool, whoever needs it that day, that week, if they need it during that time. The President uses the President if he needs it, the Prime Minister uses it, if other ministers need it, they use it, the Speaker uses it. Don't ask questions about the presidency like they're not the institutions of the state, we're talking about an institution in space, for God's sake.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0286par0462	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0287par0463	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0288par0464	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0289par0465	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0290par0466	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0291par0467	According to the Civil Code, I will have a request for a statement. I demand my place.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0290par0468	Here, wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0291par0471	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll tell the Minister that you have such private planes. Yeah, so we took advantage of those private planes, took advantage of them as government agencies. When we used private aircraft, we took advantage of the fact that our co-chairs and group vice presidents were taken to prison by private aircraft as soon as our MPs were arrested. That's an explanation for what it's actually used for. Secondly, I'd like to state to Mr. Secretary that the co-chairs currently held hostage are still members of this legislature, so both our co-chairs and our group presidents, and the text that Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş had given to the prison to send to our group meeting from Edirne Type F Prison has not been censored into our group. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm just finishing up, Mayor. I'm just tidying up.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0292par0476	Please wrap it up.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0291par0477	The text sent to our group meeting by our Co-Chair has been censored and returned to him. We, again, tell Mr. Minister, all of Turkey from here: Mr. Co-Chairs' legislative activities continue, their political work continues, they are our co-chairs, and the situation they're being held hostage in is only related to the proceedings they're committed to. Therefore, the prison administration does not have the authority to do so, and I once again condemn the censorship of the texts sent by our co-chairs. In this case, both our fellow lawmakers and our lawyers have filed their objections as of today. I'm hoping that the authorities there will carry it out and be brought back from this indecency. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0293par0481	Thank you. Mr. Aydın, come in. Wait a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0294par0484	We wanted it first, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0293par0485	Okay, I'll give it to you, too, whenever I want, whenever I want, Mr. Paylan. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Executive Account for 2015 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2015 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2017 2) Prime Ministership Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The President of the Religious Works' Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) The Head of Religious Affairs 2015 Central Management Terminate Account RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasure 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0295par0536	Thank you, Mr. President. The questions didn't come through, but I, first of all, thank all the MPs, which also shows satisfaction. But there were a few things that came up during the talks, and I want to make it clear to them. Dear friends, I'd like to share with you a happy news or two. One of our fellow speakers specifically spoke of the reputation of our Parliament abroad, unfairly. Because I would like to state to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that there are numerous high-profile visits, such as the president, the prime minister, the parliamentary speakers, that our Parliament Speaker and his team have made numerous visits abroad. Two happy news... our Ramadan Can friend was here, I just saw, this past week in Serbia, Turkey has elected the presidency of KEIPA. Mr. Can, I'm talking about you. The Turkish Grand National Assembly has been elected to the rotating presidency of KEIPA. Again, in the same way, there was the Asian Parliamentary Assembly in Cambodia. We're here with our APA member deputies for a week...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0542	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0295par0544	Mr. President, let me finish. Our APA members, members of the EPA, the head of our delegation, Mr. Burhan Kayaturk, our Şanlıurfa MP Kemalettin Yilmakkin, likewise, our Karabuk MP Burhanettin Uysal and Republican People's Party Sinop MP Barış Karadeniz have chosen the majority of 42 noble members in Cambodia, 26 observers and the majority of the world's population, from China to India, from Pakistan to Bangladesh, from Russia to Iran, from Malaysia to Malaysia, from Indonesia, from Indonesia, from Indonesia to Asia, from the majority of the world population of Asia, and from Turkey to the two years of Turkey. Mr. Burhan Kayaturk, the head of our delegation, knows the area very well. With our MPs, we've both had formal talks and private talks...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0547	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0295par0548	Can I finish? My sentence is incomplete, Mr. President, very important...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0549	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0297par0550	Don't, Mr. President, he's not giving it to us, and neither are you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0551	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0298par0552	Please, Mr. President, just a minute... I'm finishing.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0553	Mr. Aydın, please... I have to treat you the same way I treat all my friends.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0298par0554	But I'm in charge here.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0555	Please...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0299par0556	Well, Mr. Aydın, how does it work? How's that, Mr. Aydın? Allah doesn't have a stick, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0298par0557	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0558	Thank you. I do the same thing to everyone. Put it on the record, please.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0300par0561	I'm just saying, for the record. We declared him a terrorist organization there.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0562	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0300par0563	We made some very important decisions regarding Syria. This is what was published in the results declaration. Thus, we can talk about the reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and Turkey abroad.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0565	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0301par0566	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0567	What is your request, Mr. Paylan?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0301par0568	I'd like to speak to you about my position according to the Civil Code, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0569	About what?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0301par0570	About a statement from the Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0571	Can you tell me what the expression is?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0301par0572	I'm just gonna say it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0573	Would you tell me, Mr. Paylan, I'd appreciate it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0301par0574	He had an expression called "Gavur. "
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0575	He made the statement.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0301par0576	No, he didn't do it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0577	He made that statement. Thank you, thank you. We're not on the QA part, Mr. Paylan, please.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0301par0578	No, I want word from the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0579	No.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0301par0580	Don't do it, sir!
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0296par0581	Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of the budgets in the first round, respectively.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0302par0582	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0303par0583	Mr. President, I don't want to...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0304par0584	Mr. President, you can't discriminate!
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0302par0585	Mr. President, isn't that something?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0305par0586	No.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0306par0589	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0305par0590	I submit to your votes that the president's budget of 2017 will be transferred to the chapters of the budget: those who accept... those who do not accept...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0306par0592	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0307par0593	We're on our feet, Mayor!
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0306par0594	We requested a roll call before you read it.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0308par0596	I haven't seen him.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0309par0597	We're all up.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0308par0598	Okay, fine. The People's Democratic Party Group has a request for a roll call, so let's do it. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Pir, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Scholar, Mr. Todıyaman, Mr. Adıyaman, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Sancar, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Botan, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Konca, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Atalan, Mr. Thunderbolt, Mr. Lion, Mr. Bilgen. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Executive Account for 2015 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2015 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2017 2) Prime Ministership Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The President of the Religious Works' Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) The Head of Religious Affairs 2015 Central Management Terminate Account RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasure 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account I submit to your votes that the president's budget of 2017 will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't agree... Sustained. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2017 01 General Public Service 648,488,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 648.488,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Congressmans, there's a motion I'm having you read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the additional E Cetveli text of the Presidential Budget budget, which is held at the (I) Court of Public Governments in the General Budget of the 2017 Central Management Act. Zechariah Haziel Bült Kuşoğlu Musa Çam The Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Utku Çakırözer Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0310par0670	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0308par0671	Government?
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0311par0672	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0308par0673	Members of parliament, the 162th amendment to the Constitution, which organises budget talks, is also read and voted without discussion. I am reading the grounds for the motion: The presidency does not have the privilege of other institutions, except in accordance with the regulation of Article 107 of the Constitution in terms of drafting and implementing the budget. There are no special arrangements for drafting, implementing, and auditing its budget. In a way that is incompatible with the principles of fiscal transparency and accountability, some practices that have excluded the presidential budget from the system have recently been carried out by provisions in the institution's budget (E) frameworks, which constitute a violation of the public financial management and control system. The presidential budget is listed as part of the overall budget, under Article 12 of Law 5018, which regulates the budgetary process and controls of the institutions. In this regard, the presidency is part of the central administration of the governing body of Law No. 5018 (I). Financial management and control of the institution's assigned resources are subject to Law No. 5018, the purchases of goods and services and the production of productions are subject to Law 4734. Therefore, he needs to use the budget-substantiated resources within public spending law and give his account to the TBMM. "The basis for the use of some funds and expenditures (E) has been shown in the Article 4/1-"Cetves" of 2017 Central Management Law (E). It's called. As a matter of fact, there are 90 clauses in the (E) framework, which is an extension of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law bill, where some grants are used and the basics for expenditures are organised. Even in recognition of the existence of an obligation to implement the presidential budget, these regulations must be included in the framework of the Central Management Budget Law (E) in 2016. The rule of law in Article 2 of the Constitution is a state that is in accordance with the law, based on human rights, upholds and strengthens these rights and freedoms, maintains a fair legal order in all areas, and maintains it by developing it, prevents it from being in violation of the Constitution and from taking over all state bodies, which considers the law to be subject to the rule of law and rule of law and is open to judicial control. Laws have general, objective, fair rules and are required to observe the standards of rights as a state of law. While all public administrations meet their needs according to Law provisions 4734, the adoption of property and property related to this shall be granted to the presidential budget (E) as well as the construction, maintenance and repairs of the presidential office and the purchase of goods and goods to be used in its dwellings, rental of goods and other services and other services, and the adoption of staff services services, as well as the adoption of property and property of the presidential estate, shall not be made available in accordance with the rights of the presidential dwellings and its historical-body-valued services, and will not be required to be dealt with in accordance with the rights of the rights, regardless of the presidential housing and the rights, without any other public administrations, without guarantees, without the rights, and the rights to be made, and the rights of the rights to be made, with the rights to be granted, and the rights of the rights to be granted by the country. It is proposed that special regulations for the use of funds assigned to the Constitution (E) of the Constitution's Central Management Budget Act in 2017 are incompatible with the rules in Articles 2, 7, 87, 88, 89 and 161 of the Constitution, in which certain expenditures should be made without constraints in Law 4734. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0312par0683	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0308par0684	You said the call after you said the call, so I'll do it next time. (HDP rows) Friends, I've started voting!
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0313par0685	We've been up, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0308par0686	Friends, don't object; I said those who agree, Ahmet Bey said not to.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0314par0687	Okay, we're waiting, waiting for the next vote.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0308par0688	So I'm not gonna vote on it, not the next one. Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Parts of the President's 2017 budget have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the final account of the presidency in 2015...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0315par0694	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0308par0695	We've got a roll call. Let's run a name check for roll call. Mr. Pir, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Adıyaman, Mr. Todıyaman, Mr. Tüğrul, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Sancar, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Botan, Mr. Konca, Mr. Atalan, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Gıydalı, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Adıkli, Mr. Adıklı, Mr. Adılülüklı, Mr. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Executive Account for 2015 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2015 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2017 2) Prime Ministership Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The President of the Religious Works' Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) The Head of Religious Affairs 2015 Central Management Terminate Account RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasure 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account I submit to your votes that the president's central management account of 2015 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The President's Central Management Final Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 543,453,700,00 Budget Expenses 471,929,937,40 Canceled Fund 71,523,762,60 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The presidency was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will take part in the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 02) THE GREAT MILITARY OF TURKEY 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 981,589.000
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0316par0767	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0308par0768	We've got a roll call. Mr. Pir, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Başaran, Mr. Adıyaman, Mr. Todıyaman, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Sancar, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Botan, Mr. Konca, Mr. Atalan, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Adıkli, Mr. Öcalan, Mr. Öcalan. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Executive Account for 2015 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2015 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2017 2) Prime Ministership Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The President of the Religious Works' Budget for Central Management in 2017 2) The Head of Religious Affairs 2015 Central Management Terminate Account RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasure 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account I voted for the transfer of the Turkish Grand National Assembly to parts of the central management budget in 2017. 02) THE GREAT MILITARY OF TURKEY 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 981,589.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 981,589.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will take part in the central management account of 2015: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Executive Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 800,466,948,01 Budget Expenses 725,757,040,25 Canceled Fund 71,483,038,52 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 3.226,869,24 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Court's presidency shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2017: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) The Presidency of the Court, the Central Management Budget of 2017 01 General Public Service 28.385.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 50,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 224,050.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 5,000,000
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0317par0855	We have a roll call, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0318par0856	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0308par0857	Now, lawmakers, let's have a talk. Sit down.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0317par0858	No, we'll stand.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0308par0859	Your request for roll call is valid. I'm gonna say something, so let's get this over with. You can listen on your feet. Now, this frequent roll call was in the House on 24,11,2016, according to my documents. There's been a formal debate. As a result of the procedure debate, the parliamentary deputy chairman's proposal to not allow frequent roll call has been dominated by the decision of the General Assembly. (EA/DG) At the meeting with the vice presidents, we also received a statement of agreement...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0319par0862	He's in jail now.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0320par0863	Idris Bauken is in prison.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0308par0864	Excuse me. ...the president's discretion is whether or not to make brief inspections on request. Now, in that case, you can open up a discussion of procedure. But I don't think it's appropriate to have a formal discussion. Because it's been discussed, decided. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Every subject, every session on the subject...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0321par0866	Don't make me vote, Mayor! Put it to a total vote!
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0308par0867	...if we debate and vote, there will be no tradition or practice of this House.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0321par0868	There's no tradition anyway, look it's tradition! Look, the tradition is here, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0308par0869	That's different, that's different.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0322par0870	Don't say tradition, President. There's no tradition.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0323par0871	Is that tradition? It's tradition. This is your tradition!
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0324par0872	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-06sit05spe0325par0873	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger. I'm also calling a meeting of the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-12-06sit06spe0325par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. We stayed in the court's 2017 budget section. 09 Education Services 5,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 257,485,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Court was adopted in 2017 in part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Supreme Court's central administrative account of 2015 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Chief Justice of the Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 186,372,500,00 Budget Expenses 175.099.415.99 Canceled Fund 11.273.084.01 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Court of Justice of 2015 has been adopted into parts of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the President of the Constitutional Court shall take part in the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Constitutional Court Presidency Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 12.220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 46,564,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 58,784,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Constitutional Court was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. President of the Constitutional Court of 2015, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration shall be transferred into the chapters of its account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Constitutional Court Chairman's Final Account for Central Management 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 42,687,000.00 Budget Expenses 32.769.253.32 Canceled Fund 9.917.746.68 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Constitutional Court's presidency of 2015 has been adopted into parts of the central administration's final account. I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2017 will be passed by those who don't accept... those who don't. 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 44,456,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 338.294,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 382.750,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Court adopted parts of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Supreme Court's Central Administration account of 2015 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 180.922.086.02 Budget Expenses 173,761,012.66 Canceled Fund 7,161,073,36 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Court has been adopted into parts of the central administration's final account in 2015. I hereby submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2017 be transferred to its sections: those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 1) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 20.797,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 104,275,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 125.072,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2015 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The State's Final Account for Central Management 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 122.038,000.00 Budget Expenses 121,077,783,98 Canceled Payment 960.216.02 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The court is entitled to parts of the central management account in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Prime Minister's office will take part in the central management budget in 2017: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 1,254,727,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 2.257,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 10.818,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 55,787,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 150,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 769.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 110,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 1,584,358,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Prime Ministership was adopted into parts of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the prime minister's central administration account of 2015 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Prime Ministership Central Management Final Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total grant 2,465,712,711,97 Budget Expenses 2,440.842.482.70 Emancipation Expenses 5,275,175,61 Cancelled Fund 30.145.404.88 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The prime minister's central administration account of 2015 has been approved. I would like to submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of 2017 will be taken into consideration by those who do not accept... those who do not. 40.60) PRODUCTION OF CAMU EXPERIENCE 1) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Budget for 2017 03 Public Order and Security Services 20.322,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 20.322,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 20.072,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 250,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 20.322,000 The Public Control Agency has been adopted into parts of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters of the Central Executive Account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 15.368,000.00 Budget Expenses 14.674,513,43 Cancelled Fund 693,486,57 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): The overall total is 15,368,000,00 Collection 15,453,133,37 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Central Management Account of 2015 has been adopted as part of its final account. I submit to your votes that the National Intelligence Agency's Investigative Service shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2017: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 07.75) THE MILITARY PROPOSITION OF RESPONSIBILITY 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2017 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,995.692,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 1,995.692,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2015 be transferred to its specific sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 1,198,738,328,67 Budget Expenses 1,175,927,224,23 Canceled Fund 22.811.104.44 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency is considered part of the central management account of 2015. The Secretary General of the National Security Board for 2017, I submit to your votes that the central management budget for the year: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 07.76) GENIAL SECURITY PRODUCTION OF THE MILK 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 28.071.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 28.071.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Secretary General of the National Security Board, in 2017, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. The Secretary General of the National Security Board of 2015, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration will be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Final Account I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: Total allowance 23.075,000.00 Budget Expenses 22.307.759.48 Canceled Payment 767.240.52 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Secretary General of the National Security Board has been accepted as part of the central management account in 2015. I submit to your votes that the President of the Religious Affairs shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who have not accepted... those who have not... have been accepted. 07.86) THE PRESIDENT OF DISCOVERY 1) The President of the Religious Works' Budget for Central Management in 2017 01 General Public Service 55,73,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 222,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 15,300,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 1,719000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 6,792.774,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 1,379.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 6,867,117,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Religious Affairs was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Head of Religious Affairs 2015 Central Management Terminate Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 3.558.036.548.05 Budget Expenses 6,037,761,339,16 Emancipation Expenses 2,497,961,864,25 Cancelled Fund 16.666.226,72 Next Year's Payment 1.570.846.42 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The chapter of the central management account of 2015 has been adopted. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Radio and Television Oversight Council will be transferred to the central management budget of 2017: those who have not accepted... those who have not. 42.01) RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING 1) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 119,768,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 58.732,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 181,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 54,410.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 126,590.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 181,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Radio and Television Supreme Council was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Radio and Television Oversight of 2015 will take part in the final account of central management: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 248,000,000,00 Budget Expenses 128,858,246,74 Canceled Fund 99.141.753.26 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 248,000,000.00 Collection 144.701.646.07 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Radio and Television Oversight was adopted as part of the central management account in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who have not accepted... those who have not accepted... have been accepted. 7:77) BASIN-YAYING AND INFORMATION GENIAL PRODUCTION 1) Media-Journal Information and General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 23.927,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 120,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 272,468,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 297.305,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management Account for 2015, the People who Accepted... the People Who Don't... are accepted. 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 242.403.000.00 Budget Expenses 234.090.077.28 Canceled Fund 8.312.922,72 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Editor-in-Chief of the Press and Information Office of 2015 is considered part of the final account of the central administration. Undersecretary of Treasury, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2017 be transferred to its sections: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.82) AGREEMENT 1) Undersecretary of Treasure 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 60,726,343,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.142,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 12:828.495,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 3.850.001000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 77.406.981.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Treasury Undersecretary was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. Undersecretary of Treasury 2015, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Treasury Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 70,844,763,630,32 Budget Expenses 68,288,620,450,92 Cancelled Fund 2.556.143.179.40 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 689,659,115.00 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Secretariat of Treasury 2015 is considered part of the final account of central management. Members of parliament, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the first round have been accepted. I wish them well. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Wednesday (December 7th 2016) to discuss the budget and precise accounts of the institutions, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00. I bid you good night.
