tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, on the occasion of the 68th anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the World Human Rights Day wishes to bring peace, peace and justice to our nation and all mankind, celebrating World Human Rights Day. Long live the brotherhood of all mankind.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0002par0006	Can we say something, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0003par0007	Can we say something?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0001par0008	Is that what we should do?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0002par0009	One minute, everyone...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0003par0010	At least a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0001par0011	Okay. Congressmans, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who want a word. I give you my word that Mr. Levent Gök is the deputy president of the Republican People's Party, who wants to speak on behalf of World Human Rights Day. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0004par0017	Mr. President, thank you. Today is World Human Rights Day, and I wish to celebrate this day as soon as possible in the world and in Turkey with the most advanced dimensions of human rights. However, when we look at our Turkey, it's not very pleasant. Sadly, on World Day, our country became a country known for human rights violations. After a while, human rights organisations in Turkey and our findings, and even worse, international organisations' findings suggest that there are serious setbacks in human rights in Turkey. Just recently, the European Parliament's decision to halt the negotiations process on Turkey during the European Union's negotiation process, which we have set as a target, is a key indicator of the world's perspective on Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0005par0021	Please complete, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0004par0022	Yesterday, the Venice Commission issued a report stating that extreme state measures are contrary to the Constitution and give an image of pleasure. Again, yesterday, the European Judiciary Councils Network has decided to suspend membership of the HSYK in Turkey. The head of the European Security and Co-operation Agency (OSCE) in charge of media rights has described the situation of the media in Turkey as alarming. In addition, the International Press Institute Communication Director saw the arrest of journalists in Turkey as a threat to human rights rather than a terrible injustice. In this picture, Turkey has to overcome such a picture, and it is not worthy of such an understanding of governance. Today we celebrate Human Rights Day in the hope that this will be overcome. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0005par0024	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I pledge to Mr. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0006par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, yes, it's Human Rights Day. Of course, it won't fit in a day. In fact, every day, really, we wish for all human rights, for all people, for all of us, for all of us. At this moment, we wish for days when the will of all the chosen ones, especially our co-chairs and our group's deputy, is recognized, and in this way, human rights can actually be restored to life. We wish for days when there were no mothers on Saturdays, at least they had reached their losses, and no new people were added there. In short, I wish we could live freely in this country, where we're not all talking about it, we're not all celebrating on December 10th, we're all living freely in this country. We're all on Human Rights Day...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0005par0031	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0006par0032	Okay, that's it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0005par0033	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I promise Mr. Baki Simsek. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0007par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, in our faith, the world's first universal declaration of human rights was read by our Prophet in Veda Hutbesi, but unfortunately today, blood and tears prevail in the Islamic world. Kings reigning on one side, Syrian children begging for money on the other. Crying Aleppo, weeping Aleppo -- the world's watching -- Telafer, Azez, Mosul, Kerkuk -- global forces are trying to teach the world a lesson in humanity. However, in Aleppo, millions, hundreds of thousands of Muslims are now under all kinds of torture and bombs. They say they're fighting terrorism. Who controls the Kandil today? Why do global forces trying to teach the world about humanity not speak to Kandil? For him, we have many duties in both Turkey and the world concerning human rights, but to global powers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I believe that we, as a government, should be able to give the answer. It is said that the road to Kandil is asphalt, where journalists go to and from. And about that, internationally...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0008par0043	Let me turn on your microphone, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0007par0044	I think we should fight back. Again, my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0008par0046	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, I promise Mr. Mehmet Mush. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0009par0050	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to say a few words for today. Human rights apply to all humans. We believe that human rights should not be ignored for those who live in some parts of the world, while human rights should not be ignored for those who live in some parts of the world. See, the war in Syria is in its fifth year. While there were dozens of innocent children murdered, the world's fiercest civil rights advocates and apostles almost blinded their eyes, ignoring the murdered children, the innocent. But when it comes to human rights, they're the fiercest advocates of it, and they're up against the world, trying to teach people a lesson. People who live here, in Syria, have to migrate to different parts of the world because of the conditions there.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0008par0052	Please complete, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0009par0053	There are around 3 million people from Turkey that we're hosting right now. Some of these people have also gone to countries that publish exclusive contracts, such as the Bill of Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights. Sadly, the practices they face here are the attitudes that are completely in conflict with the Bill of Rights and the Convention on Human Rights. There will be no noise when a continent of Europe and the same continent of Europe is doing these practices, marking its doors and marking its plastic markers; they will attempt to teach Turkey at the human rights point, which we do not accept. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] First, we advise the practices here to follow their own Bill of Rights.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0008par0056	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll be doing the fifth round of interviews today. The fifth round includes the Ministry of Interior, Security General Directorate, Police General Command, Public Order and Security Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, Coast Guard Command, Migration Administration General Directorate, National Defence Ministry, Defence Industry Undersecretary, Culture and Tourism Ministry, State Opera and Ballet General Directorate, General Directorate of State Theatres, and the budget and final accounts of the Turkish Writers Agency. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2015 1) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2015 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2015 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account CULTURE AND TURISM ACTIVITY 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Terms "I") THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH WRITTEN 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Association 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2015 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, as it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. Now, in the fifth round, I'm reading the names of the members of the group and their individuals: On behalf of the Justice Development Party Group, Gaziantep MP Mr. Abdulkadir Yüksel, Çanakkale MP Mr. Ayhan Galkale MP Mr. Mustafa Hilmi Dülger, Nevşehir MP Mr. Abubekir Sırçgider, İstanbul MP Mr. Şurtur Ünal, Adjan Boynukara, Tripoli MP Mr. Adnan Günnar, İstanbul MP Serap Yaşer, Antalya MP Mr. Atay Kullı, Müğla MP Mr. Nihat Özturk, İstanbul MP Mehmet Ali Pulcu, İstanbul MP Mr. Hurşhat Yıldırım, İstanbul MP Mr. Kutın Taştın, İstanbul MP Sütın Kütın Kütütütın, Mr. Muğtın Kütın Kütütütın MP Mustafa Günnar, İstanbul MP Mustafa Kütütın MP Mustafa Kütütütütütın MP Mustafa Kütütütüğüğütlu MP Mustafa Kütütütütütüğüğütütlu MP. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Şanlıurfa MP Mr Osman Baydemir, Mardin MP Ali Atalan, Ağrı MP Diryet Taşdemir, Ankara MP Sırrıyya Önder, Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran will speak. On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, Mr. Kadir Koçdemir, Muğla MP Mehmet Erdoğan, Ankara MP Erkan Haberal, Erzurum MP Mr. Kamil Aydın will speak. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bart's MP Mr. Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya, Aydın MP Mr. Hüseyin Yıldız, Tucson MP Mr. Gürsel Erol, İzmir MP Mr. Murat Minister, Sakarya MP Mr. Engin Özkoc, İstanbul MP Mr. Selina Doğan, Konya MP Mr. Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt, Antalya MP Mr. Revolutionary Root, Hatay MP Mr. Hilmi Yaşici and Mersin MP Mr. Durmi Fikriler will speak. On behalf of him, Kahramanmarash MP Mehmet İlker Çiçil will speak on behalf of Mardin MP Ali Atalan. Now, we're going to hear the speakers of the Justice and Development Party Group. First, Mr. Abdulkadir, member of the Gaziantep MP, will speak. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, the speakers of the Justice and Development Party Group have five minutes each. Here you are, Mr. Ascendant.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0010par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of our Ministry of Interior in 2017. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Our ministry serves our citizens in every phase of life, from population to local administration, from the administration of provinces to immigration policies, from birth to death, especially security. Dear lawmakers, our country is in the middle of a basin of civilization where different cultures can live together. This vast geography is going through a new and difficult time. Unfortunately, this is a period of intense terror and mass migration. Our geography faces many domestic and external threats today, as has been throughout history. The threat of terror and intense migration of our unity and unity affects our country and the whole world. Terror is the biggest obstacle to freedom and development. The planned terrorist games in our region aim to change borders by fueling ethnic and religious dissolution. Our unity of faith and our thousand-year brotherhood will not allow these games to be played. The first priority of the state is to ensure public order and security. In this period, Turkey has questioned its understanding of global security and has implemented a new sense of security of its own. The new security perspective is focused on ruling law and democracy. Our prediction of terrorism and refugees is clear today. Terror is a crime of humanity, terrorism is never a means of seeking rights, it can't be. Terror has no religion, no language, no race, no religion. Your terrorist's bad, my terrorist's good. His understanding is never acceptable. The whole world must curse humanity, terrorism, and put together a common fight against terrorism. The other big problem today is the refugee problem that threatens the whole world. Throughout history, our nation has embraced the oppressed as the hope and refuge of the oppressed. Today, our nation, our Syrian brothers and sisters in all our provinces, as well as the Gaziantep, which I have been honored to take over. Our thesis on building a security corridor across the border against the wave of migration created by refugees fleeing terror in Syria and Iraq has been clearly seen through Operation Firat Shield. Turkey's deportation is directly related to our internal security, aimed at meeting threats to our country outside of ourselves. With these operations, our border counties have become safer, and the migration wave has been partially halted. Our firm stance here will provide the facility for the safe zone. Dear lawmakers, as the AK PARTI government, our goal is to eliminate terrorism with all its aspects and consequences. As we prioritize security, we also care about the economic and social dimension of the issue. We've worked decisively for 14 years to eliminate the differences between development and social development between our regions. With security measures taken during this period, we will expand the democratic political network, destroy the abuse fields of terrorism, remove terrorism and violence from our country's agenda. Dear lawmakers, we all lived together on the night of July 15th, the traitorous attack on our democracy and national will. It was a plan of destruction. Under the leadership of our President and Prime Minister, our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation have not given us the opportunity to plan destruction. In the process, I give thanks to all our martyrs, our veterans, who gave their lives for the flag and for their country. Dear MPs, it's our beloved nation and its will. Our cause is to serve our beloved nation, to make our nation peaceful and happy. I wish our budget to our nation, to our country, and to my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0011par0128	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the second to speak is Mr. Ayhan Yaz, a member of the Çanakkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Go.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0012par0132	Mr. President, members of our great nation, I have made a commitment to the budget of our interior ministry, which has a wide responsibility from village infrastructure services to the destruction of bandits in the mountains, to the coup attempt of protocol services, to the treachery of traitors. I salute your high council. There's a phrase I haven't liked since I was a student, which begins at such a time when we need unity and unity most. Every time government executives got stuck, every time they intended a coup, every time they were eager to do business against the nation, they used that phrase in the past. Therefore, the sentence lost its seriousness and became a question of its validity. However, sometimes the situation becomes so cliche that the stone of that cliche can change what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is. There's always a story my father tells. When the officer sent his writings to the center, he would stamp it on the standard. One day there was a real rush of paperwork, but the stamp was the only one who got used to shooting him. How do you know it's really urgent? He took a red pen and wrote it on it in a hurry. We had a situation like that this summer. So this is the exact place where we considered this cliché, the invalid sentence came in, and we needed it, but this time the government didn't say it, people said it, it's almost as if it were in a hurry. He added, in such a time when we needed unity and unity most, he said, "There is me, there is us." This word, used before to strike and crush people, has turned around and landed on the heads of the oppressed. On this occasion, we are grateful to the martyr, veteran, and all of our nation in the glorious resistance of July 15th. Is it over, traitor, foe, bandit? Of course it's not over. It's the famous saying: "The pretty one can't sleep." And it's getting harder for us because if it's our job to defend our loved ones, then it's ours; our love is this great land, this great nation, this great state. Let there be many enemies, let there be many traitors that we have raised among us, and let the robots that these traitors command be united with the enemy, and let them attack us. Thank God this great Turkish nation never hesitates to sacrifice the life of this nation, this state, and this country, in which it carries its life in trust when the day comes, let alone be afraid of sleepless for the night. We've always said, we've always said that the Turkish state over 2,000 years has its prime feature, its statehood, and the other feature is that it's a period of time. Even so, it is fitting to be a keeper of such a state, and it is fitting to tolerate such a state. As descendants of the Conqueror, who provided unprecedented freedoms with the covenant, we have brought unimaginably free ideas in the history of the Republic of Turkey. We stand by every freedom we bring, we stand by it, and we have no regrets. However, no system in the world gives anyone the right to kill this nation with weapons given to them to fight. However, no system in the world gives anyone the right to use the bench given to him to distribute justice in the interests of his treacherous teacher or congregation in the United States. However, no system in the world gives anyone the right to dig a ditch with the machines assigned to his office to serve the nation. However, no system in the world gives anyone the right to betray the land in its supposed mask. The state is a family, it gives freedom to its people, and when it's used to oppress mankind, it knows how to get on top of it. There's no use crying, no need to moan, no need to take refuge in lies. What would Europe say to foreign countries? What would America say? I would like to point out from here that asylum is futile. Because as much as those countries have the right to defend their legitimate or illegitimate children, we have the right to defend our country, to defend our nation. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0013par0141	Thank you, Mr. Go. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the third person to speak is Mr. Mustafa Hilmi Dulger, a member of the Church. Mr. Dulger, please.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0014par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Interior's central budget in 2017. I salute the High Council. Before I begin my speech, I honor and cherish all the public officials, our security forces, who have been martyred for the sake of public order, the welfare of the country, the integrity of the nation, and the unity of the nation. By the way, on November 11th, Derik, who was killed by separatist traitors who couldn't bear to serve his citizens, is also grateful to Muhammad Fatih Safiturk, who was also martyred by separatist traitors in 1991, and to the noble sons of our nation who fought and were veterans. Dear friends, the Ministry of the Interior is not only a guarantee of security and peace, but rather a ministry that extends its hand to a family that brings water to a thirsty village, which is cold in the cold, and welcomes the victim who escapes the war and takes refuge in our country, and also provides security for it. So, from birth to death, we face the services of the Home Secretary in every aspect of life. Precious lawmakers have successfully carried out this mission through 81 governorships, 919 subsidiaries and subsidiary units, whose main duty is to determine the services of the provinces in the general administration, and to use the custody authority of governor and trustees, the largest property manager at the site, will continue to operate until now. In the 14-year period of EC PARTI rule, revolutionary legal regulations in the field of human rights have been implemented, and judicial and administrative proceedings on alleged violations have been made uninhibited. In this framework, claims of human rights violations in the Bureau of Review of Human Rights violations under the Executive Board of Property, which I served for 17 years under the Ministry, have been examined by property inspectors. In addition, complaints about law enforcement and law enforcement on the establishment of the Law Commission have been reviewed in a manner and fundamentally. Terror organisations and terror forces, which have been affected by our democratic maturity as a country, have stepped up terrorist activities against our country over the past year, and on July 15th, it has raised it to the highest level and has made it clear by a bloody coup attempt. This initiative has taken its place in history as the bloodiest act of terror that our country has ever been subjected to. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, all elements of the auction to the government's terrorist organization are being wiped out of state institutions, exploiting the emotional feelings of our citizens and using all the resources of the state within the state for their own benefit. Dear friends, as I put an end to my words, as a property manager of both sides of the table, I'd also like to address the improvement of the rights of property managers. The owners of the Throne are the alperians; this is not for the rich, it is for the heart. It's not the work of a man who doesn't have a heart for this nation, but we're all aware of the results of the improvements that have been made on behalf of other professions that they've been left behind by those they've considered to be equal and equal to themselves since the past. For this issue to be resolved, the problem will be solved radically by the fact that first-class property managers' salaries, whose total number is around a thousand and will not burden the general budget at all, will be the same as first-class judges. So, I believe we're going to boost the motivation of these heartbreakers. He wishes the 2017 budget to be a blessing to our country, to our nation, and to our Ministry, and to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0015par0158	Thank you, Mr. Dulger. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Nevşehir MP Ebubekir Secretider will speak fourth. Here you go, Mr. Undercover.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0016par0162	Mr. President, I've been promised the budget for the Security Directorate of 2017. On this occasion, I salute you all. Yeah, it's Human Rights Day. In this minvalde, I condemn the violation of the rights committed in Germany against Mr. Ayşe Nurkaplı, who is currently chairman of our session, and in this case, unfortunately, I invite the modern world to condemn human rights violations against Muslims in Arakan, Myanmar, Central Africa, Palestine, Gaza, Jerusalem, and in Aleppo, wherever Muslims live. First of all, thanks to the coup that was attempted by subcontractors and their true owners and the selfless fight against PKK terror over the years, and the honor of the veterans, I remember the martyrs with mercy and wish our veterans a good life. Hopefully, as our Minister has expressed, I think April will be the month when we will all watch their destruction together. Turkish police have played an important role in the recent fight against drugs, a new segment took the job, and narcotics are being established. We believe that this April will be their end, as well as the end of the drug lords, because one of the most important financiers of terrorism has become drug lords. Again, I'd like to talk about the AK PARTI power, the camera system that is currently in place in all the provinces, which is being tried to spread to the counties. He plays an important role in the capture of criminals and in traffic safety, acting as if he were a protective physician. We demand that this be spread throughout all districts. In this case, in Nevşehir, hopefully, it will take place in all the counties. Our age is now an age of expertise. In this context, as a lawmaker, I would also like to mention that the use of technology and the practice of law enforcement are now very seriously controversial in terms of the needs of criminology, and I think it should take place in our legal system, in our security system. The police have performed a very important task in our country as of 2013 and later. May 2013 was a very important month. What happened in May 2013? Turkey has lived for a month; it has seen the bottom of interest; the foundation of 100 years of stories, a hundred years of dreams has been laid down, and it is almost like a rise; bridges, the world's largest airports -- have trees been cut down, or have they moved? What happened after that? After him, someone dug holes -- I won't call it a fire -- but with military hand-in-hand and careful work, they knew how to bring martyrs down on them for months. In this respect, it also carried out a huge task of securing the next 50 years, perhaps the next 100 years, in the interest of the state, in terms of the outcome of the state, not only of the traditional police services, but of Turkey. Now, those who can't do that, they've got our guns pointed at us, they've tried to hit us. They couldn't do that either, so the police kept standing up again. Now, they're planning to bring down the economy. A people who are not afraid of tanks, who are not afraid of missiles, who are not afraid to shield their bodies, who are willing to walk to martyrdom, who are not afraid of money. The chief said, "Cash the tattoo." He said, "Now everyone's cashing it." I'll tell you a story, it's a lot of details, but maybe a story will answer them all. A brother of ours, trying to get his bread out of shoe polish, wrote on his shoe polish, saying I'm going to paint his shoes for free. You can't beat this nation and you can't beat it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, we have very little time, and in this case, Nevşehir has taken very serious advantage of our budget so far. Our highway is being tendered this year, included in the KOP. Our first project has passed. Our crowd-Seyfe irrigation line is going fast. The potato has become the subject of a basin-based work within the strategic product. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If so, they will be discussed in the 15th, 15th, 15th, 15th budgets that follow.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0017par0175	Tell me how many hotels have been closed in Nevşehir.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0016par0176	On this occasion, I salute you all. May our budget be blessed.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0018par0179	Thank you, Mr. Undercover. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, they will speak fifth on behalf of İstanbul MP Smurf Ünal. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0019par0183	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the General Staff budget. I hereby salute your high council. The armed general law enforcement unit, which maintains public order by law and law, is a human-based, respectable, reliable, and quality service that protects public order. The expectations of our nation's security forces, especially the gendarmes, have also increased in comparison with the past, which has reached a more complex, systemic, organised and global dimension than the influence of terrorist organisations and crime centers in the developing age of communication and information. Our General General Command, which is responsible for the security and security services of 91 per cent of Turkey's facial measurement, is doing its best to prevent crime in order to ensure our nation's peace and security, to combat terrorism, prevent trafficking and fight irregular migration, to ensure external protection of criminal execution institutions and detention houses, and to carry out transfers from prisons from prisons without keeping track. In carrying out these duties, the gendarmes are based on the rule of law, the basic rights and freedoms of our people, maintaining democratic society order, clarity and transparency, accountability. With the indivisible integrity of our country and our nation and the safety of our citizen's lives and property within the framework of the law and continue to work with great sacrifices to sustain the present peace of mind, our gendarme especially gives up and gives away his duties in all weather and land conditions, especially in the fight against terrorism, if necessary, martyrs and veterans. In 2016, our police department lost 223 casualties and 862 wounded. Once again, I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been formed in the areas where the fight against terrorism is primarily intensifies to be more effective in the fight against terrorism -- the gendarmes' special operations battalions, the gendarmes' commando battalions, the Gendarme commando special security divisions. Special soldiers provided as part of the police professionals' professionalisation have been given priority in providing special operations and commando troops with the needs of trained personnel. In this scope, 45 Gendarme commando battalion commanders, 25 Gendarme special operations battalion commanders, 32 gendarmes are continuing the professionalization of other elements within a plan, 201 MPs' internal security teams, 728 MPs and men's staff. Armed and unarmed helicopters, drones, drones, and armored vehicles are also being used very effectively in the fight against terrorism and are becoming a force impact. Again, it is of great importance to maintain an uninterrupted communication system in the fight against terrorism. It was founded on this purpose, and its short name is JEMUS, which contributed to the rapid execution of police and security services with the Project for Integrated Communication and Information. The Coast Guard Command and our Ministry of Health have been integrated into the system, and the Forest General Directorate has begun to take advantage of the system. AFAD and the Police Department have also begun their work to benefit from this system. This system, which is completely national, continues to operate in our southeast provinces. The support of the budget of the gendarme, who is responsible for the safety and security of 91 per cent of Turkey's face measurement, which is the principle of respectable, reliable, perfect service in the national and international area, is of great importance, to ensure that it improves its resources and capabilities, and to meet its demands for funding that will be needed within the year. In the attempted coup on July 15th, our Gendarmes certainly did not point a gun at our people, celebrating our army of law enforcement. As I end my words, I wish our budget of 2017 would be a blessing. My regards to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0020par0192	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Adıyaman MP Adnan Boynukara will speak as sixth. Mr. Bonekara, please.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0021par0196	Mr. President, we know that the high-value lawmakers have been targeted by some of the centers in which Turkey is united in purpose. Our country is being targeted by different operations that have been planned outside and used by terrorist organizations, which means our people and our public order are being targeted. However, political determination and social support have failed all the games that have been put on display so far. In the process, significant gains have been achieved, and there is a Turkey that has now imposed its strength to resist crises and operations. It is good to remember the operations that Turkey has passed through and through which it has become stronger. The attempted arrest and access to the Prime Minister of the period by arresting the Undersecretary of the 7th February MİT; the attempted attack on environmental sensibilities; the sabotage of the process by opening spaces for PKK terrorist organization in Syria; the unidentified PKK attempt on Kurdish, killing 6-7; the 17-25 December coup attempt organised through judicial and law; the mass terrorist attacks targeting civilians; the attempted attempt of PKK (PKK) to transport terror into cities, and, in the end, the coup attempt on 15 July ̄clu. Dear lawmakers, it is also useful to remember the reasons Turkey has been targeted for a healthy analysis of the process. Criticizing the United Nations structure, which has condoned global systems and global injustices since 2009, taking steps to resolve the terrorist and Kurdish issue that consumes every resource of the country, and looking for a solution within ourselves. To be sensitive to the events of the oppressed peoples, to help the oppressed with a conscientious attitude, to be sensitive to our sociological and cultural geography as a bet on the future. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has strengthened all operations against it and failed. In this case, Turkey is the security insurance of Europe, even the world. If we're tested through terrorist attacks and different operations, not us, but those who set up these games lose. It's in their best interest to see it. But as we look at the developments, there is no constructive mind in the West, but there is a global eclipse. Those who support terrorist organisations should know that all the risks will reach them, so that they may be more vulnerable than Turkey itself. Because on one hand, there's a Turkey that has strengthened its responses to terrorism, on the other hand, its reflexes are weak and there are countries that support terrorist organizations. Those who try to test Turkey at different points may not be able to pass the test themselves. Yes, what we're trying to say is, notice the change Turkey has made, see the strength to resist, take it seriously and play the games you're going to play. Dear lawmakers, the main issue for us is to maintain the will to address our internal problems by talking to our citizens. I believe there are no problems that we can't solve as long as we keep this going, as long as we separate terror from civilian politics, as long as we don't consider our citizens' demands a threat. On this occasion, I wish you the best of the Public Order and Security Undersecretary budget, which contributes to the process of counterterrorism and the elimination of terrorist organisations, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0022par0203	Thank you, Mr. Bonekara. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Adnan Günnar, Congressman of Tripoli, will speak seventh. Mr. Günnar, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0023par0207	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Coast Guard Command budget in the 2017 Budget Bill talks. I hereby salute our beloved nation and your grand delegation, who are watching us on the screens. As I begin my speech, I would like to express my immediate condolences to our families and to our nation and to all the martyrs who have lost their lives in the operation of the Firat Shield abroad and to all those who have lost their lives in various operations in the country. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are responsible for the security of our coast 8,484km long, landwaters and landwaters and our country's face measurement of 378,000,000 square miles [38,000 km] of what we call the Sea of Marmara, the interior waters of the Republic of Turkey, and the coasts of Istanbul and Çanakkale, and the coasts of the ports and bays. Our country's geostrategic position, a significant part of our international trade, was made from the seas, and in particular the recent years of war and instability in countries with border neighbors in the Middle East, has resulted in irregular migratory movements. It is much more understood how important our Coast Guard Command has been doing the tasks that have kept on working day and night to keep the Aylan babies from dying every day, only this year, allowing about 36,000 fugitives to survive and resuscitate. With all this work being done, there is no compromise on the safety of our seas and beaches without giving up human values. The 2002 budget was 91 million 701 thousand liras, while the Coast Guard Command's budget increased by 6 times in 2016 to 576 million, 812,000 liras, while in 2017 its budget increased by about 7 times more than 2002 and will be $650 million. As it turns out, our government's vision of Turkey shows itself by investing in the Coast Guard Command. In 2016, the Coast Guard Command signed successful operations worldwide in preventing illegal activities and organisations such as human trafficking, fuel smuggling, drugs, smoking and bootlegging, poaching. The Coast Guard Command will continue to be our greatest guarantee for the protection of our national interests and to boost the power of our Turkish Armed Forces. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in the next seven years, we aim to increase our national income by at least three times as much as today, hopefully, to reach the level of $2 trillion in 2023. As you all know, we designed and built our own intelligence satellite by Turkish engineers. We've sent our satellite into space, and we're on our way with new satellites. We're building our own infantry rifles, tanks, helicopters; we're building our own aircraft carriers in our own shipyards. With these breakthroughs Turkey has made, it is in the presence of the oppressed that trusts the friend and inspires fear to the enemy. As the EC PARTY, we will continue to work tirelessly, tirelessly, and grow Turkey, not saying night and day, so that Turkey can move on to 2023, 2071. Our commander-in-chief, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, as our President said, "No stopping, keep going." I wish the current 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill to be a blessing for our country and our nation, and I salute our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0024par0217	Thank you, Mr. Günnar. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, eighth, İstanbul MP Serap Yaşar will speak. Here you go, Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0025par0221	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on behalf of the budget of the General Directorate of Migration Management of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act. I salute your high council, our beloved nation. Our country is both a transit country and a target country in terms of immigrants. There has been a dramatic increase in migration and asylum movements in almost every part of the world lately, especially in our region, where turbulence has triggered sudden and mass migration movements one after another. With our Syrian brothers' asylum in Turkey, our country's foreign population and diversity have increased. Thus, in today's circumstances, effective immigration management has been a necessity rather than a choice. In this context, the General Directorate of the Immigration Administration was established in 2013 to conduct business and procedures related to the number of foreigners we have expressed in and out of Turkey, stays, deportation from Turkey, international protection, temporary protection and protection of victims of human trafficking. Considering that Hungary has spent 30m euros to avoid accepting the mandatory quota of 1,294 refugees imposed by the European Union, we can better understand how a large burden has been shouldered. Honourable lawmakers, although the European Union and its member states knew very well that they could not turn refugees away from the door during this process, did not hesitate to take tragic steps. First, they said, "If we can't deny responsibility, let's at least ignore it." However, when pressure reached irreparable sizes, they tried to shoulder the burden on countries such as Italy, Greece and Malta, and when the refugees were moved toward Central Europe, their chemistry deteriorated. Should we not agree on how to distribute 160,000 refugees within quotas and count them falling into each other, closing their borders with barbed wire, arsoning the tents of people living in misery, or deliberately sinking boats, which should we say? The wrong question and the right answer cannot be answered. Europe has looked for answers to the question, "How do we keep these people away from Europe? " This approach has also carried wood into the fire of the extreme right-hand one that has recently risen in Europe. When we put aside the big picture and focus on the details of the situation in Europe, we are faced with an even worse, scarier picture. The Europol Report states that nearly 10,000 unaccompanied immigrant children are missing. Where are those kids? I'm actually asking myself and my clients that question. At a meeting of the AKPM Migration Commission, which I attended on September 22nd, the Europol administrator said that a total of 26,000 children could be missing in Europe. There are examples of abuses against these children, such as sexual abuse, labor force abuse, solicitation for crime, begging. A child is sold for 20,000 euros. Again, another report on the year 2016 of Europol says that Nigerian girls have been kidnapped. 270 children from South Africa are brought in by boat. In short, it's a slave trade.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0026par0226	It is also done in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0025par0227	We don't know where these kids come from, but someone knows. If we had shown proper sensitivity, perhaps we would have known and prevented it. He confesses. It is important to note that countries who play three monkeys and slow down on the issues related to refugees quickly manage important tasks, such as the decision to freeze talks with Turkey and host terrorist photo exhibitions. Such discrepancies occur in Europe, where the wave of panic clouded the political climate, while Turkey has claimed these people from the first day the crisis began with its open door policy, and will continue to date. Today, Turkey hosts three of every five Syrian refugees in the world. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has declared Turkey the country home to the world's largest asylum seekers. I think it's true to say that Turkey has become the world's conscience when a painting like this is considered. As I put an end to my remarks, I would like to extend my regards to all of you who work 24/7 in the central and rural community, especially our General Manager of the Immigration Administration, in order to ensure that the 2017 budget is a blessing for our country, our nation and refugees.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0027par0232	Thank you, Mr. Yasar. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the ninth speaker of Antalya MP, Mr. Atay Kölla will speak. Here you go, Mr. Nice Guy.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0028par0236	Mr. President, Congressmans, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Immigration Administration General Directorate. I salute your committee. Congressmans, immigration is a dynamic process with cause and consequences. It has a serious impact on society, politics, states, systems, and the future. Today, we are living in an age of migration. According to U.N. data, there are over 300 million immigrants in the world today, and 60 million of them live in refugee status. Migration, social, economic, security, cultural, opportunity and crisis dimensions should be discussed, but unfortunately today it is considered only by the security dimension. Evaluating the issue with the criminal lenses is disturbing the peace of society, reducing the economy. However, migration alone is not a good or bad event. Migration brings opportunity when it's well-dominated. Let's not forget, America and Continental Europe are shaped by migrations. Einstein and Steve Jobs are immigrants. Today, Steve Jobs, founder of the most profitable company in the world, was born to Abdulfattah, a Syrian man. The world needs to come up with new policies, considering the value of the economy added to the world by immigrants, the value of cultural and social addition. Congressmans, immigration is an unstoppable process today. The prevention of Europe, increasing border controls, barbed wire, does not reduce migration; rather, it increases irregular migration, causing people to drown in the sea. The world should spend its anti-immigration performance solving problems in the source countries, focusing on immigration and integration policies. Our country has opened its heart to both the oppressed and the asylum seekers in both the Ottoman period and the Republic. In recent years, he has also made significant legal and institutional changes. The International Protection Act, which was adopted in 2013, and the Finnish Immigration Administration, established on the same date and with the same law, is an important expression of this change. The Department of Immigration is an expert organization based on the reflex of managing immigration. Today, there are nearly 500,000 regular immigrants left with a residence permit in Turkey. There are also refugees in Turkey today with nearly 200,000 different protection statuses. Yes, as we know, there are other Syrians living on temporary protection status of 2,750,000. So in total, about 3.5 million refugees are in Turkey. These asylum seekers' admission, registration, integration, and the Finnish Immigration Administration's General Directorate have soon carried out successful tasks. Migration Net has developed exemplary projects, such as e-ikamet. A model and successful project is YIMER, Alo 157 Foreign Communication Centre. It's a line that can be searched from all over Turkey and the world. It does not only serve for immigrant status, for regular immigrant status. He also serves asylum seekers, refugees, Syrian temporary protection. Rights and obligations can be learned from this line, and information can be obtained about the state of their transactions. In seven days, 24 hours of Arabic, English, French, Germany, Russian, Turkish service, this call center has received over 1 million calls in the last year, and this call center has prevented more than 6,000 refugees from dying and drowning in the Aegean. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is successfully conducting an important process on Syrian issues today. As successful as we have been, Europe has failed in this regard. We know that the refugees' valuables have been confiscated and the shelters have been attacked. The fences are drawn to the borders. Anti-immigrant ideas rise every day. Let's not save immigrants in the Mediterranean, let's kill them if we have to. Turbo radical ideas are rising every day. I think these ideas will interfere with the European project. Europe is causing human drama by not fulfilling the 1951 Geneva Convention, by closing the doors, by implementing asymlic policies. We were in Germany last week as a commission. We expressed these concerns. We said that more than 6,000 children were lost in Germany. We said: "The shelterers are being christened by their helplessness." There should be no such thing. And in order for that not to happen, we think the world needs a new immigration initiative. We propose a renovation of the 1951 Geneva Convention. We need a binding new contract, where there's division, relocation, acceptance and harmony. Look, there is a binding Paris condition for countries that disrupt the molecular structure of the atmosphere today, but there is no agreement and no contract for these events that affect the cultural and life chromosomes of humanity. Geneva is not enough. So, let's sign an international asylum agreement, the Gaziantep Convention, Mardin, Urbana. The institutions of the 1950s and paradigms are no longer able to manage the event, even bankrupt. The United Nations, founded in 1950, and its extension, can't do its duty as High Commissioner of Refugees. So we say that the world is greater than five. Congratulations on the 2017 budget.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0029par0247	Thank you, Mr. Goody. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Nihat Ozturk will speak as the tenth speaker. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0030par0251	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on the budget of the National Ministry of Defence, the draft of the Executive Budget Act in 2017. On this occasion, I salute the Veteran Assembly. At the beginning of my speech, before and after the 15th of July, all those who have willingly sacrificed their lives for our country, our flag, and our nation, ask God's mercy and thank you to our veterans. I'd like to point out from here that I have the right honor and pride of making the 15th budget of the EC PARTY governments. It is important and important to us that in 2003 the national Defense Ministry budget, which was $10 billion, increased by about three times over the period of time, is $29 billion. These growing budget resources are effectively used to defend our country against any domestic and external threat. Dear lawmakers, our National Ministry of Defense has made many improvements during the AK PARTY administrations. In the past, the idea of closing our aircraft factories, our weapons factories, and buying ready-made products has now been transferred from the idea of domestic and national production, which has allowed our army to be supported by domestic and national elements. The best response to countries that had previously troubled the supply of weapons our country needed was the domestic and national production model followed by our government. Turkey is no longer the former Turkey; it is a powerful country that many countries envy with its powerful army, with its defence industry. High-tech products needed by the Turkish Armed Forces are largely intended to be developed and produced by the national industry. In line with the objective of meeting the conventional weapons, ammunition and explosive needs of TSK and security forces, the main battle tank Altay, storm obuses and low air defence system 35mm, has been made significant breakthroughs in the new generation of modern and military weapons and ammunition production projects, such as the influential bomb, long-range smart ammunition. Turkey's first domestic and national rifle, modern infantry rifle, is now the first edition of 500 convoys. Two prototypes designed by Turkish engineers have also begun mass production of the new generation of basic training planes, which have successfully been successfully tested, and we are continuing projects on attack planes, helicopters, satellite launch systems and so on. Without geographical restrictions, high-resolution images from all over the world will be served in many areas from border security to intelligence. One of the essentials of being a powerful state is to have an army under the command of the nation, which consists of professionals who are capable of moving, efficient and particularly national weapons. He has national weapons and is a national army under the command of the nation, so I think this emphasis is very important. You can't use the problems we've been through in Cyprus, and you can't use the weapons we're selling to us when we're dealing with rogue PKK terrorists and their supporters in the east, especially when we're dealing with weapons systems that are ready for us -- our own policies that are contrary to their own interests. You can't fly the plane we're selling without our consent. In fact, we all know that some countries today who claim to be so-called allies are trying to make the same kind of decisions. In fact, remember, remember the challenges we had in the days when we tried to recruit the first drone into our army. Remember those drones we couldn't afford to serve when we paid for them? Now, I'm going to leave the difference to you, my friends, by the Turkish engineers, to produce their own drones and missiles installed on these vehicles. It is important that our army is domestic and national, not just for the safety of our country, but for the establishment of peace in the region. The stance and attitude we put forth in Operation Firat Shield supports this description. Once again, on the night of July 15th, we saw the importance of the concepts of domestic and nationality. Terrorists who have sold their souls to a separatist organization or other illegal organizations have no place in this country and under this flag. On behalf of this nation, I'd like to thank you once again for all of our security forces, including our soldiers and policemen, who wrote the heroics that night, who were standing next to the nation, who put their lives on the line for their country. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I end my words, I wish our budget for 2017 would be a blessing for our country and our nation. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0031par0265	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Mehmet Ali Pulcu will speak in the eleventh place. Here you go, Mr. Pulcu.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0032par0269	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the budget of the Defense Industry Undersecretary in 2017. I salute you all. Mr. President, he says to get well soon, and I also express my satisfaction in making my third speech in such a positive state of the President.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0031par0271	Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0032par0272	We'll talk about the Defense Industry budget, but I'll start with Schwarzenegger. You know, there's an actor named Arnold Schwarzenegger. He is the Cüneyt Arkin of Hollywood. There's a film that this friend made in 1994 called True Lies. Well, that's the story. New York's going to be a show of art from Iraq, but it turns out there are Russian-made missiles in the works. Asian, gook-eyed, charming, and blood-soaked Middle Eastern terrorists will set off a bomb in New York City for no reason. No need to worry, Schwarzenegger grows up and saves the world. 1994 is a late date, in 2013, Mr. Minister, I'm talking about another film, closed Halftime, joint production of the United States-England. There has been a terrorist activity in England, 150 people have died. We have a suspect, our suspect's name is Farroukh Erdogan. Mister Erdoğan planned it. He shot Erdoğan. During this one-and-a-half-hour film, the name of Erdoğan is mentioned 55 times. There's a special reason why I'm talking about these films in the Defense Industry Undersecretary's budget. One: a very famous French sociologist says cinema has more power than the Pentagon and governments; Jean Baudrilard. I care about that. Two: These films are popular versions of Huntington's thesis on the clash of Civilities, which was presented to the academy in 1993. Huntington took into account the task of convincing the academic community. These popular films have also taken the position of accepting this opinion with the world's public opinion. Friends, let me remind you that Huntington now says there's going to be a conflict between the West and the others, and Turkey puts it somewhere. There is a special paragraph for Turkey, and it says that the Western elites claim that Turkey is Western, but the Western elite don't accept it. It continues: "In the age of ideologies, what are you fighting for? " The question was important, but in the age of civilizations, who are you? The question will be asked. The answer to who you are is constant, specific and unchanging. Let this be a paradise for our master Cemil Maryic - the children of Mount Olimpos will never accept the children of Mount Hira. I say this: There are incredible steps our defence industry has taken in the power of the AK PARTI in the last ten years. We just got rid of the ATAKs, ALTAAYs, MILGEMs, CIRIT (CIRIT), CIRTÜRK-2, but I think it's very important in the next 30, 50, and a hundred years of hiking that we have a much more important issue under this roof for our national defense. Many friends from the HDP group make many of the stories of the verse and the story of the events. Under this roof, very new, Mr. Kilicdaroglu has made a phrase called what does our beloved Prophet Veda Hutbesi say? It's very medial for now, but it's going to be internal in the future and in the future, certainly and in the family. I talked about American movies, I'd like to finish my speech with a Turkish film, AROG, Cem Yilmaz, friends...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0033par0279	We're not tacitarians, you're the tacitarians.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0032par0280	... In AROG, it's taken back a million years, where it gathers against its monkeys. Friends, you need to reach the level of modern civilization quickly. There's not much we have to do for him: stand upright on both legs. Under the leadership of the EC PARTI, with Mr. President's stance, Turkey, thankfully, stands upright, so we're in a partial jam, but this march has begun, and it says that eventually will come to an end, and I wish you all the best of our budget. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0034par0283	Thank you, Mr. Pulcu.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0035par0284	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0034par0285	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0035par0286	Mr. President, in his speech, he also mentioned the name of our party, and at times, HDP friends, friends from HDP, who have been reading events, have been taunting us without internalizing things. So, I demand word.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0034par0287	Mr. Demirel, we need to put up with the criticism.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0035par0288	Not criticism, but to mention the name of our party...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0034par0289	I'm not just telling you this. Look, members of parliament, members of the group, I can promise you no bullying, of course you have the right to make such a request, but to ask for a taunt called the party's name...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0035par0291	No, no...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0036par0292	He said we didn't internalize it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0034par0293	I'm not talking to you in private, I'm just saying what I think in general. An app has been put into place, which is considered a cause for taunting, just to mention the name of the party. Please, let's be sensitive about this.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0037par0295	No, President, it's not just that. Let me put it this way: we're not just responding because it mentions the name of our party; we're not responding because a lot of our friends from our party are talking about events, but we're answering because they're giving us a challenge about how internal it is.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0038par0296	I mean, it's a question of faith.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0039par0297	No, he didn't. He didn't.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0037par0298	I mean, we took it upon ourselves because it means we didn't internalize it by saying the name of our party.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0040par0299	Okay, two minutes... Who will speak, Mr. Demirel?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0037par0301	Ayhan Bilgen will speak.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0040par0302	Here you go, Mr. Bilgen. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0041par0307	Mr. President, good lawmakers, of course, it's not political morality to share the scriptures here without internalizing the events, as advice to someone else. You, of course, made that reminder by looking at that scale, but here, from our party, at least, the friends who talk about it, the people who read about it all their lives, the people who control it. But there is another problem with human rights, about the Constitution, which binds all of us, other than the scriptures and events, about internalization. For example, our friend, who was just talking about the budget -- I think it was about the Coast Guard -- when he described his 2023 target, expressed the budget over the dollar, saying how much the budget should be in 2023. Obviously, the fight over the dollar that's been going on for the last week has not been internal. [[Applause from HDP and CHP rows]] Again, a valued politician who previously served as a minister of one of the ministries discussed in the budget issued a statement today that Human Rights Day should be understood. Since it concerns the European Union, of course, understanding human rights is important for European relations, but who needs that understanding? Today, KESK's rally in many cities was cancelled on Human Rights Day, friends, and banned. KESK is a legal union, one of the three major confederations in Turkey, and if their rally is being banned, who do you think should internalize human rights? These human rights documents are part of the Human Rights Convention, part of Turkey's legislation; the 90th Article of the Constitution makes it very clear. So, I think it's important to share the verses and events in this discussion of introduction, at least because it connects the believers, but the bet goes to a heavy place, and we go to tell someone else something you don't believe in, and we say it with faith, and we share what we believe in when we share the verses and events. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0042par0313	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0043par0314	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0042par0315	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0043par0316	Mr. President, I just heard your assessment of the bullying. I mean, you're trying to establish an attitude that every time a party's name comes up, it's not supposed to be taken because of bullying. This may be understandable, but for the record, in all the debates that have been made so far, the AKP Group has demanded that they take the challenge to the government, or to the President's name, by accepting it on their own...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0044par0317	Yeah, exactly.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0043par0318	...and they're taking promises from bullying. I mean, there's a point to underline this ironic situation. So that's how I understand in the talks that you will not allow criticism of the government or criticism of the President to be taken by the AKP Group due to bullying. Is that correct, sir?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0045par0320	I've already said I'm speaking in general, Mr. Gök.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0043par0321	Okay. Let's underline that.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0045par0323	Thank you. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2015 1) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2015 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2015 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account CULTURE AND TURISM ACTIVITY [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Terms "I") THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH WRITTEN [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Association 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2015 Central Management Final Account İstanbul MP Hurşit Yıldırım will speak in the 12th place on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0046par0370	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. I salute the General Assembly. I remember with mercy and gratitude all our martyrs, especially those who have recently arrived in the Hereafter, who have made this beautiful land our homeland, which the Lord of the Prophets had been waiting for. Our ministry budget for 2017 is estimated at $3 billion 459 million, 754,000. I'd like to thank everyone who's been working on the budget. As children of an ancient civilization of thousands of years, we are one of the richest nations in cultural history in the world. In particular, with the AK PARTI powers, we've accomplished revolutionary tasks to claim our history, our culture, our forgotten monuments and our long-standing heritage. I'd like to present to you in comparison with the activities of our Ministry of Culture and Tourism during the EC PARTY. In 2002, the number of museum sites was 8 million, while the number reached 28 million in 2015. The museum's revenues, which were 26 million in 2002, amounted to $447 million in 2015. The number of tourists came to our country in 2003 and reached 39 million in 2015. Members of parliament, culture and art are only, however, maintained full independence, created, protected, and maintained by powerful and old nations. We can't build our own culture world with the concepts of others that don't belong to us. In particular, we are preparing our culture world for the future from a local and local perspective, which our President has often stressed, from a national and local spirit, as the heir and follower of a large civilization whose knowledge is based on Turkish-Islamic sources. We have countless values that carry our thousands of years of unique culture back into the future and make us who we are. In Ankara, Haci Bayram Veli is the heir to the same culture as Ahmadi Hani and Aliya Izetbegovic in Bosnia, and Mohammed Iqbal in Lahor. In Nevşehir, Haci Bektas Veli, Yozgat, Ahmet Efendi, Erzincan, Terzi Baba, Hazreti Mezlana, Gül Baba in the Hungarian plains, and St Mahmoud Hudayi in Istanbul are our cultural wealth. Halid bin Velid in Yermük, Salahaddin Eyyubi in Jerusalem, Sultan Alparslan in Szutüt, Ertuğul Gazi in the Balkans, Murat Hudavendigâr and Çanakkale in the Balkans Seyit Corporal in Çanakkale, Milker İmam in Antwerp, Imam Damascusil and Koppe in Kafkasya, and Gazi Mustafa Kemal in the Balkans are the codes of our culture. Isn't Yozgat Sürmeli, as had been in the steppes of Asia Minor for centuries, as well as Neşet Ertaş, and Itri, as well as the same culture that ferments Asia Minor every day? Baki, Sinan, Fuzulî and Başgil, Meric, John Kemal and Orhan Veli are cultural treasures that complement each other from the past to the future. When we were children, Omar Seyfettin, Kamalettin Tuğcu and Necip Fasil and the generation of Asim are our futures. Nene Hatun, Hayme Ana, Fatma Sister, and Gevher Nesibe are our cultural values that make us who we are. Semerkant, Baghdad, Jerusalem, Sarajevo, Mecca are as cultural as Istanbul, as are our cities. Congressmans, the winner of the new world order will be justice and kindness, not profit. Our culture and civilization feed on justice and goodness. Our belief is that our culture, born of our own civilization, is a role model all over the world. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who gave excitement and courage to all the oppressed nations in the world by saying that the world is greater than 5 ▪, also encourages the future of our culture and art world by supporting our cultural values with a local and national spirit. As I end my words, I thank our culture, our values, our cultural wealth, and our universal values, which have brought our cultural monuments to light, which have introduced our cultural monuments to the world, and have made a great debut and achieved success in recent years, and to all who have done so, and to all who have done so, the Ministry wishes that our budget be good, and to all of you, I thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0047par0382	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Ismet Uçma will speak in the thirteenth place. Here you go, Mr. Flying.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0048par0386	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2017. I salute your committee. Dear friends, we were going to take medicine to Africa with friends from the parties in the parliament, but Musa Hoxha said: "It's all written on your stomach." He said, "After this meaningful statement, I celebrate World Human Rights Day, congratulations." Dear friends, in a part of the world, the struggle, the approach, the massacre, has really reached a creepy level, where people who don't think like themselves, who don't think like themselves, who don't think like themselves, who don't sit like themselves. Now, hopefully, together with the AK PARTY staff and our friends in Congress, this fight will continue until the moment and the day that no one is more human than the other. Dear friends, as the AK PARTY staff, we are followers of the vast collection of civilisations that Asia Minor has brought from history to today. We are determined and determined to divide all the colors of our nation with our liberal democrat and conservative identity, and all the vocabulary and proverbs, and the authentic pathogen that penetrates its mountains, its plains, in this beautiful land. One of the most irreparable ways to achieve that is to maintain our savings of national culture, art and literature. We know and we know that our struggle in this field is as important as what we do in the fields of economics, science and industry. The Islamic civilization, which we as a nation have been involved in, has melted the entire savings of humanity before itself into its own hoop, creating a new synthesis, and then has prepared the infrastructure of a new synthesis by transferring it through the Indulus to Europe. This collection of ideas and cultures, divided by Europe from the Islamic muhtah, was fermented there by the yeast of Christianity, and this time the basis for the Renaissance movement. A new movement of thought that was brewed in Europe continued its progress, leaving the existing Christian ideal, along with the Enlightenment period, has become a new human-centered compound. Today, in particular, the concept of modern culture and art, which destroys all societies, crushes local cultures, severs the divine roots of human values, infects morality with every society, such as the virus, has emerged as the toxic fruit of this process. From novel to cinema, from theatre to plastic arts, from music to textile and fashion trends, the dominant character continues to destroy young generations of modern culture, art and literature, which is worldly, pleasure, speed and pleasure. The most urgent task of our liberal and conservative democratic intellectuals is not only to question modern civilization with a negative approach, but rather to question the total buildup of humanity, but to increase our positive share of today's civilizations, and to do so primarily to regain the horizon that we have lost in culture and art. In even more detail, it's to find our modern culture and art tools to start the Islamic renaissance together and put them into action. We have to perform a historical maneuver that will properly manage the current global transformation and transformation process that will allow us to return to the nation's original culture. The first thing that needs to be done is to create a new vision of culture and art for the new Turkey. This vision needs the mind work that our intellectuals will do about it. The first step is for our intellectuals to develop awareness of the problem itself. Our intellectuals, who are the voices of the nation, have to learn to think, to do mental labor, to understand relationships between principles, to conceptualize, to isolate, to analyze and synthesize. To think about things, situations, principles, to explore their relationship with each other, to come to a comprehensive conclusion about the nature of concepts such as signs, karines, evidence, human, society, politics, law, economics, culture, art, literature. In order to achieve all of this, you have to have deep cultural equipment. Unfortunately, the mental depth of our young generations today is found in a disappointing shallowness. Our culture, art, and literature products today show almost entirely the sovereignty of Western code. This is where I finish my vows. I'm out of time. I give you all my respect, love, and conversation.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0049par0398	Thank you, Mr. Flying. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the 14th member of Samsun MP, Mr. Fuat Koktaş will speak. Here you go, Mr. Rootstone.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0050par0402	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the current Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2017. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. From cultural centers to libraries and museums, from historical artifacts to art, accommodation and sea tourism facilities to travel agencies, more support from all governments is given and continued to be given during the AK PARTY administrations. Tourism, including health and winter tourism, crossbow tourism, Black Sea culture and nature tourism, has increased the number of blue flaged facilities. Mr. President, when you say "turism," I want to draw your attention to culture, nature and gastronomy tourism in the Black Sea region, which is the first thing that comes to mind when you say "the sea, the sand, and the sun." I am also obliged to express that the mosque, with its mosques, with its historic inn, with its castles, with its castles, with its structures, with the integration of history and civilization, with its natural vegetation, with its natural vegetation, with its lakes, with its thermals and streams, with its summer plateaus, with its mountains and ski centres, with its historic inn, with its bridges, with its ruins, with its castles, especially the rare beauty of the unique deltas of Red and Greenermak. With local food, the Black Sea has an important place in gastronomy tourism. This nature has an important place in western, central and eastern Black Sea tourism, with its routes, housing facilities, picnic sites, and activities centers, to reach our values, such as history, culture, plateau, canyon, lake, lake, and so on. For 14 years, resources have been being transferred and transferred to restore, restore, and open our history to internal and external tourism. In particular, economic problems occur in the tourism sector from time to time, despite the investments in marine tourism, as well as domestic and foreign-source reasons, and businesses are facing economic challenges. The point here is not that our government or our ministry's support is inadequate, but that it's important to raise the sector, to make it enduring and competitive against shocks. We have to lower the costs before we lower the quality. To do that, all employees from their manager to their manager, waiter to cleaning staff must constantly renew themselves, constantly improve their mentality. Not just foreign tourism, but domestic tourism should be opened, alternatives should be offered. Building facilities that allow everyone to take a vacation is becoming more and more important to the investor every day. In order to get out of crisis, a plan B has to be at our fingertips. We have to create structural changes by not creating negative perceptions, thinking positive thoughts, balancing plans for internal and external tourism. During the time of our governments, many resources have been transferred to promote our country. However, those who should have transferred this source did not promote our country, but promote the terrorist organization. Our government has given a great deal of support to support and wake up the sector, especially from the terrorist incidents in 2016 and the attempted coup attempt. Again, it was announced in 2017 that the travel agencies of the class (A) will be supported by Mr. Buli Yıldırım Bey, our Prime Minister. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly, wishing our country, our nation, the well-being of the current 2017 budget.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0051par0410	Thank you, Mr. Rootstone. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, 15th-place MP Metin Gündoğdu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Gündüz.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0052par0414	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the budget of the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate and the General Directorate of State Theatres. I ask that the 2017 budget bring blessings to our country and our nation, and I salute the Veteran Assembly. Dear lawmakers, as the AK PARTI government, we have always adhered to our values that constitute the essence of our national culture and civilization. On the other hand, as an AK PARTY, we appreciated and loved the creation of race, religion, language, culture, and all that was created without regard to the Creator. One of the most important things that makes a nation a nation a nation is culture. Culture is the character of a nation, and it takes centuries to form. Our civilization has been interacting with other cultures for centuries, and Islam has evolved, all of which have allowed us to obtain a unique and unique savings. Our culture is like ebru, once it's done, it never breaks down again. Anatolian culture has given life in peace and happiness for centuries, with different colors fused and merged in the same spirit climate. So that we can see the traces of this culture from the shores of the Adriatic Sea to the walls of the Wall of China. Today, our duty as heirs of an ancient civilization is to preserve our culture and bring it to a wider audience. Precious MPs, pioneers of a society, intellectuals and artists. The Enlightenment and the Artists are responsible for the society they come out of, both for matter and for reason. Artists, like other professional groups, must do their jobs as best they can, try to earn their dignity. Now, some so-called artists think they're capable of creating simple political polemics just to get on the agenda, ignoring social dynamics in order to be incompatible, humiliating the values and culture that have been coming for centuries and dynamited power. These types only reveal their own exhaustion, or you won't see such examples of lightness in real artists whose work is well-respected. A negative perception of the West versus its own nation and state is being created as if the AK PARTI power was an enemy to art and artist. They're wrong, they're not real. Now, especially in the last few years, we've found something strange in both the Western world and some of our artists. Those who speak ill of our President are immediately crowned. I call it Erdoğan's syndrome. It's a freaky complex that gives itself away. They can't stand up and digest a leader who's telling the truth and walking straight. Because it broke down by heart, a nation began to decide its own fate.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0053par0420	Who can't digest?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0052par0421	This nation stood up behind its own leader, as it was seen on July 15th, which is not digestable.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0054par0422	They put him in jail, they cancel his concerts.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0053par0423	Who can't digest?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0055par0424	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0056par0425	But no matter what anyone says, no matter what anyone does, as Mr. President says, the donkey will die, the saddle will die. The work of our President is in the open, and it is clear what those who are in the insufferable lightness of attacking him will do. Appreciation belongs to our beloved nation. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet and the General Directorate of State Theatres, have been tasked with telling the story of both this land and the world with art. The State Theatres, which believe in the importance and necessity of existing at every point in Turkey, serve in 12 provinces and 28 scenes in 2002, serving 23 provinces and 65 scenes today. In the Repertoire election, he made significant steps in the development of the national theatre by prioritizing the works of Turkish writers. The works of many important writers were performed from Reshad Nuri Güntekin to Haldun Taner, from Yasar Kemal to Tarik Buğra. One of the major activities of the State Theatre is that it is conducting international theatre festivals. Government Theatres, not only aim to open curtains, also reveal social responsibility projects. Many projects have been carried out for prisons and for disabled citizens. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, no matter how flashy and magnificent the buildings are, there are some values that make it a home, and no matter how rich and famous people are, there are other things that make them more valuable. It is no different for cities, countries, and nations. The point is, as the ancients say, to add a spirit to things, or else as soon as they look at them, as soon as they hold hands, the heart likes them, but they don't like them. You can't give the language of the heart and soul the meaning of life without pondering its food. And our job is to make our state stronger by the color and spirit of our nation with the precision of an artist. I salute our holy nation and the Veterans' Council.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0057par0431	Thank you, Mr. Gündüz. The last speaker of the Justice and Development Party Group will be Konya MP Mustafa Baloglu. Here you go, Mr. Baloglu.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0058par0435	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. With the budgets of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Culture, I wish all our budgets, the 2017 budget to be good. I'd like to thank everyone who's passed the effort. This week, as we all know, is December 7th week, December 17th, and the 743th anniversary of the Vuslat anniversary of Maslana, December 17th. I hereby commemorate the Holy Lord with love, love, love, love, and mercy, and invite you, our esteemed deputies and all our listening citizens, to the ceremony of Shebiarus on December 17th, to the climate of Mazlana, to remember the Holy Mashana, and to see all the beauty of our Konya. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The International Memorial Ceremonies of Hazreti Mevlana, the 743th anniversary of Vüslat this year began in our Konya, which was the centre of culture, art, wisdom and science during this period, when organizations such as the DEAŞ, who have not considered any other Muslim in the name of Islam, tried to create the infrastructure of division, disintegration, disintegration in the Islamic world. We have not come to divide, tear, scatter, to divide the world; we have come to assemble, collect, and grow it. I hope that this promise will awaken us all again, both for our country and for our geography that is being tried to break apart. Turkey has an important savings that can spread its teachings around the world. I want to express that this is the savings the world needs. The teachings of the good Lord will be the best response to those who have created politics in favor of division against terrorist organizations, to those who want to distribute Muslim communities according to their religion, to those who want to distribute them according to their profession. As for the office of the Writers' Association, which I have been promised, the writings produced on our country's land and on every corner of our heart geography are handwritten and hand copied before the establishment of the printing press. On the other hand, manuscripts from the first hand in cultural history and from the sources of our national cultural heritage, and rare artifacts are the most valuable cultural beings that shed light on the work of scientists and researchers. Writing is one of our most valuable treasures that connects today to the future, and in a sense, it's the treasures of societies and states. Our writing works are important documents of our religious, decent, cultural and social lives, which express our nation's most beautiful and important regrets in terms of its success. Writing is also full of rare examples of our traditional arts. Our writing libraries are where our arts are protected, exhibited, learned and taught. Every civilization, every culture has an art sense. Art is actually a name for people to paint the environment, the world, the universe, and be transformed into what they imagine in their own civilization. The art of the traditional arts, miniature and line art is also a form of the creation of the imagination of Islamic civilisations. Each work reveals the world of vision and imagination of the nations. The Head of the Writing Arts Foundation, established five years ago by the Law No. 6093, with this act of consciousness, is seeking to fulfill the historical duty of protecting, promoting, and managing our rare editions and libraries, and will then bring them back. 512,000 works, including 3 regional directorates across Turkey and 22 library-bound libraries and 300,000 rarematbu, are most visiblely presented to the service of the scientific world. The building, called the Suleymaniye House of Solomonia, was built into a modern structure with renovations, maintenance and repairs, and was equipped with the necessary equipment for book restoration, consolidation, and research, and began to serve as a book healing. In addition, the Office of Konya Writing Arts continues to serve as Turkey's second book healer. Again, what is going to be done in our Konya, his project is now completed and his tender work continues, and the Writing Arts Regional Directorate Library and the Hat Museum will be one of the most important works in our country. As I end my words, I salute all of you, saying, "Timekeepers, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0059par0445	Thank you, Mr. Baloglu. We will now listen to the speakers of the People's Democratic Party. Mr. Osman Baydemir will speak first. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0060par0451	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable lawmakers, on behalf of my group, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Internal Affairs budget. I salute the General Assembly with respect and respect. Mr. President, before I begin my words, if I may, I'd like to express my condolences for the extremely rude procedure you've been subjected to abroad, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0061par0454	Thank you very much, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0060par0455	To tell you the truth, Mr. President, what you've experienced is also a major trauma to human dignity as a human being. Perhaps since you've lived here today, I'd like to draw your attention to what's happening in this country. Imagine that in your own country, you are subjected to this practice almost every day and every hour. HDP MPs have been exposed to practices that you have been exposed to almost every day, almost every street, every neighborhood, from the day of their election. HDP co-Chairs and 10 MPs are currently in prison, Mr. President. In the same way, Mr. President, our group vice president was not allowed to enter a district. I invite you, the Speaker, the government and all parliamentarians, especially the ruling group, to once again empathy, Mr. President. On December 10th, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is the 68th anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations. The acceptance of the Universal Declaration, based on the idea that human honors and values are a source of rights and that these rights are universal, is, without doubt, a great gain for mankind. At the beginning of the Universal Declaration, which was adopted on December 10, 1948, it also warns that recognition of equal, undistributable rights for all members of the human family is the basis of freedom, justice and peace in the world; that if it cannot be protected, everyone may have to resort to the right to resist persecution and oppression as a last resort. Mr. President, the U.N. organization today faces a major crisis because it has not fulfilled its reason for involvement in refugee crises in preventing, preventing civil wars, which are the main cause of rights violations, especially the right to live. Only when we look at Middle Eastern geography, when we face what's happening only in our own country, when we look at them, regardless of who it comes from, we will be able to see what a huge human crisis we're facing. In particular, in our country, Turkey has once again left its relative calm in terms of human rights, with its return to war policies, conflict policies, from July 2015 to today, to chaos and severe violations of rights, unfortunately. The main problems of the country have become increasingly severe, under the influence of war policies on the inside and outside, political authoritarianism has increased, the separation of forces and judicial independence has been eliminated, and a line has been extended from a operational authoritarian regime, where political power is collected in one hand. Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers have created hundreds of thousands of civilized dead who have been expelled from their jobs under executive decrees, who have been denied the right to work anywhere, whose social rights and property have been seized, who have been taken into custody for arbitrary reasons, who have been tortured, who have been detained for uncertain periods, who have been deprived of all legal protection and defence rights, who have not been answered from the Constitutional judiciary or administrative judiciary. What's fatal is that it's unclear who will become a civilized dead when and under what circumstances. In other words, it is a great human rights crisis, which means that humans will be dehumanized from being human beings, in other words, as well as a social execution by creating political civilized dead bodies in one dimension, as well as the name of a social execution reality in another way. Mr. President, it is your government's objective duty to protect the Universal State of Human Rights and Weeks on December 10th, in the world and in our region, in a sort of democratic state, before anyone else, and as an executive position within the government, it is the Ministry of Interior. The fact that we're here today on December 10th, discussing the Ministry of Interior's budget is a humble thing, but it's also very good. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary, we have some very serious criticism for you, and criticism is essential to democracy. For one thing, anyone who enters politics, who is part of the government, who is a minister, who is president, who is prime minister, who is a main opposition leader or MP is subject to follow-up criticism. If there's anyone who can't handle criticism, in my opinion, let's not get into politics first, let's not get into responsibility. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's look at the Ministry of Interior's mission first. Go to the website, look at his vision and his mission on the Home Office website. Based on basic rights and freedoms, it is one of the Ministry of Interior's missions. It is another vision of the Ministry of Internal Affairs that raises the standard of service for local administrations. It's another mission to support civil society. Being human-focused, that's what this is all about. Human focus is another mission. So, Mr. Secretary, this document of yours, and your vision, do you really have a parallel? Isn't there an oxymoron in you? Is it appropriate for you to say "herru" or "herru" for this mission? Could it be the word of a statesman? I'm very clear, Mr. Secretary, that the epiphanys of politics of either herrü or herrü. The vast majority of those who call it "herru" or "merru" have finally torn it apart, but they have left a great deal of pain, a great deal of trauma. Now, if you'll excuse us, we need to look for ways to emerge from this great crisis of humanity, from violence, from violence, from violence, from lawlessness, from evil. We're at a point where violence, bullying, lawlessness, evil becomes common, and maybe worst of all, it becomes institutionalized by judicial decrees, by government policies, and by your rhetoric, it's being institutionalized, it's being institutionalized. Look, it's clear and clear that it's his law that makes a state legitimate, it's his constitution, it's his laws, it's his side, Mr. Secretary, international contracts, international contracts. It is your responsibility to protect and protect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. At this minimum, when a state encounters a plague, of course, it will fight, but when it comes out of the law, it deserves all the criticism. Look, no exceptional situation, no war situation, no threat of war, no internal political instability, or any other State of Emergency can be cited for torture. This is the rule of paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the United Nations Convention on which Turkey is on its side, and it has the signature of this country, so it is under your signature. Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers, the ban on torture is strictly prohibited in this minor. The execution without judgment is strictly forbidden. In this minor, the laws of the law allow the law to be tortured, setting the stage. The limitation of the right to defend is the basis for the concealment of torture. In other words, torture is now an instrument of access from the suspect to the judge, from the suspect to the evidence. Look, the ban on torture, Mr. Secretary, it applies to you, it applies to me, it applies to everyone. For those who attempt that junta, attempt it, and, according to me, have no share in humanity, there is also a ban on torture. This can't be applied to any human being. There's been 1,622 torture complaints in the last year. Before I take up too much of your time, Cemal Illum is arrested in my own constituency, Şanliurfa No. 1 T Type Closed Prison. He was taken into custody on August 15, 2016, where he was taken to the Ceylanınar Terror and Branch Directorate, where he did not sign the statement prepared by interrogators, and was subjected to electrocution, death threats, copla sexual assault, coup and all other banned practices. Cahit Ok is also under arrest at Şanlıurfa No. 1 T Type Closed Prison at the execution institution. He's complaining, not undressing, until all the non-human treatments are done. Mustafa Süleyman is again in Şanlıurfa No.1 T-type Closed Prison. Ceylanınar is being subjected to all the torture I've just expressed at the Gendarme Command. Faruk Bayğut was taken to Şanlıurfa, again to Şanlıurfa Anti-Terror Branch Directorate. The five or six people who were present here were not police, we are a special task force. They were subjected to strip naked, defamation, offensive water, and similar inhuman torture. Yusuf Çetin, Feyzullah Köpçak and if you wish, you will have the chance to see the list of all 1,222 people in the Human Rights Association, Human Rights Foundation and other human rights organizations. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, why all this has happened, why all this is happening, you have to look here as a matter of fact. First of all, once again, in this country today, the legal, political, moral responsibility for the existence of this painting is the government's before anyone else, because the government is subjectively responsible for preventing all of this. Now, why didn't all of this happen between 2013 and April of 2015? Why didn't today's chaos happen at that time? Because there was no conflict at the time. Because at that time, the solution to the 70-year-old, 80-year-old Kurdish problem was a process of negotiation. I mean, honestly, it wasn't the AKP that created the Kurdish problem that brought the Kurdish problem to this day, it was the Kurdish problem before the AKP. The AKP, Mr. President, with the Prime Minister of the period, Mr. Ocalan... For the first time in the republic's history, there was a paradigmal change in the way the Kurdish problem negotiated, the way it addressed dialogue. Here, he was born in paradigmal change, HDP. HDP's basic mission, basic vision of the Middle East, has become the paradigm of ethnic identity wars, sectarian wars, not knowing each other, slaughtering each other, as well as an antidote, a peace project, and I'm telling you clearly, HDP, freedom for Kurds, freedom for Alevis, freedom for differences, as many variations as there are today. But this paradigm was welcomed by the Turkish community. This great grace has grown so great that the government's ability to rule alone has been eliminated. In the June 7th elections, Turkey opened to a brand-new day, a brand-new process, and the main problem is the lack of recognition of the will released in Turkey on the morning of June 8th. Now, you're saying, "Let the HDP put a distance between violence and violence." I want to express it to the Turkish people, Turkish brothers, if they're watching us on the screen: There's nothing more important than the fact that today's violence has come to this point. On the contrary, I want 400 deputies. I want to be in power on my own. It's the result of his compulsion. All this violence we've experienced today, all this chaos. Look, peace has been sacrificed to the desire to be alone but alone, a sacrifice that every life we've lost so far is the result of the imposition of this policy - objectively, subjectively. Unfortunately, this murder situation and this madness are still going on. Now, I ask you, they're in prison today because they can't be dealt with by the opinion of Denizhattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ and 10 MPs.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0062par0475	What's that got to do with anything? Huda Kaya's out, too.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0060par0476	They're in prison because they can't deal with the HDP idea. Why couldn't the HDP be dealt with? Because the HDP received a 13.1-lead vote. I can honestly say, there were two main reasons why the HDP received 13.1 votes: one was paradigm, it was philosophy, but the other was the ground of non-conflict, the ground of non-conflictness. HDP owed its jump to peace, in debt to the absence of deaths. So, I ask you, my brothers who are watching us on the screen now, what happened between June 7th and November 1st, when the HDP lost 3 points? How did the government get 317 MPs from the government's 258 MPs? What happened during this five-month period?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0063par0477	They fell into the ditch, into the ditch...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0060par0478	What happened was that there was a great attack on Suruç, and 33 of our people lost their lives. Immediately, two police officers were brutally murdered in Ceylanpınar. Immediately the village of Zergele was bombed, 10 civilians lost their lives, and the entire process continued until the explosion of Ankara Gar on October 10th, 102 people lost their lives. HDP offices, offices, and offices have been attacked in more than 400 places. All mass communications have shut us down. Now, let's look right here: between October, June and November, only Prime Minister Davutoglu of the period had the opportunity to broadcast on television for three hundred and ten hours, while Mr. Kilicdaroglu had forty-four hours, Mr. Gardenli twenty-nine hours; Mr. Yüksekdağ and Mr. Demirtaş, our Co-Chairs were able to express themselves only for six hours. The floor of violence, the floor of blood, the ground of the coffin, has been transformed into an instrument of self-dominance, and, without doubt, the ground of violence has also led to the reproduction of a coup mechanics. Now, please take a good look at these photos. Once again, it's the legitimacy that makes the state, and its legitimacy comes from the law. No matter what you fight, no matter who you fight, you have no right to make Cizre, Nusaybin, Şırnak; this is unlawful, this is murder. Look, the photograph here is a photograph of Cizre's, Nusaybin's, Surā's and Şırnak's; cities, cities, an expression of excessive use of force. This picture is the murder of civilians, innocent people. This photo is also taking place in Aleppo, Gaza, and Gaza. When you criticize Aleppo, Gaza, it's a human drama, a human tragedy.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0064par0481	Is there any comparison between here and there?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0060par0482	They tell you: "First look at yourself. First look at yourself, then criticize me." So, it wasn't within the legal grounds, it wasn't within the human rights floor, it was overpowered; that was our criticism. You are witnesses, and mankind is witnesses, and my Lord is a witness. During that period, during June-November, HDP held meetings in exactly 14 locations, 14 municipalities. Deploying the moats, shutting down the operations; the government did not allow it. Why wouldn't he let me? Because the policy of being in power alone wasn't enough, we needed something else, we needed funerals by the presidential referendum, we needed violence to happen.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0065par0483	That's a shame! Too bad, does it suit you?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0060par0484	Mr. Secretary, from the bottom of my heart.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0065par0485	You have no intimacy.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0066par0486	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0060par0487	Come, criticize me, and you will use the bench.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0065par0488	That's not criticism. This is an insult to the state of the Republic of Turkey, not a criticism.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0066par0489	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0067par0490	If you could just listen to the speech and then answer...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0068par0491	Listen to the conversation if you want.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0066par0492	If you'll excuse me, I'm in charge of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0069par0493	My friends warned me that Mr. Minister can't stand criticism. In fact, it's been revealed once again, but I'm not going to break my heart, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0070par0494	This isn't about criticism.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0071par0495	It's pure slander.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0069par0496	Now, from another point of view, we're at a point where...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0072par0497	Say something to the PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0073par0498	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0069par0499	We're at a point where...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0072par0500	Tell me... why don't you say something?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0074par0501	If you listen, you'll understand.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0075par0502	Mr. Bak, please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0076par0503	...the whole area, the whole geography, when we look at this map...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0077par0504	For God's sake! And tell the PKK something, say something to the pits. You're talking! The terrorist, the drug dealer, and the drug dealer.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0076par0505	...the map of socioeconomic policies imposed on the region over the past year, the map of poverty, the policy of poverty. Now, when you look at this map, you see the will of the Party of Democratic Territories. When you look at another map, you see the will of trustees, you see the policy of trustees. Be poor, be in need of nana in one dimension, and then take away your will. The trustee is a coup in this sense, and the process of trustees is not passed by this Parliament, but by law. There were alliances of all groups here, and there should be no trustees. He said all groups, but even so, the trustee policy came to life and was chosen by 50 percent, 60 percent, 70 percent...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0078par0507	The one who supports terrorism.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0076par0508	...the mayors are now in prison, lawmakers are currently in prison, the basis for legal democratic politics is being eliminated.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0079par0509	Mayors taking orders from an 18-year-old boy.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0080par0510	He's not in prison because he's mayor.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0081par0511	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0082par0512	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, whatever you do, whatever you do...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0083par0513	Did the instructions come from the mountain?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0082par0514	...with violence, oppression, force, violence, you can't eliminate a demand for freedom. Look, I make it very clear that whatever the Turkish people have rights in Middle Eastern geography and their geography, whatever the rights of the Arab people, whatever the rights of the people of Fars, the right to freedom is lawful to them as well as to their mother's. The effort to eliminate it, the effort to suppress it violently, is despotism. Mr. Secretary, look, 8,500 people were fired by the coup d'état of September 12th, including academics, intellectuals, writers, social dynamics. Today, it's over 100,000. It's a coup, Mr. Secretary, and it's more of a coup than the coup d'état of September 12th. The other thing is, this whole blow, while all this chaos mechanics is being run, it's also resorting to lies, and it's also resorting to slander. I'm telling you very clearly, the arrest of Ahmet Turk is also the arrest of peace; the arrest of Ahmet Turk is also a coup to the desire to live together. It is not for you to accuse Ahmet Turk after arresting him, Mr. Minister, it is not for you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0084par0517	Yeah, they did the same to you. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0082par0518	You're saying someone came and lit a cigarette in Ahmet Türk's room and said, "Come, light my cigarette." Mr. Secretary, if you believe in your cause, the truth is the truth, the truth is only enough for you, there is no need for such slander. Whoever made you tell that lie, I think you should grab him and clear it up. Was there a camera, did Ahmet Turk tell you, or did the person who made him light his cigarette tell you? Look, I've been exposed to those schemes, you know, and I've been exposed to them.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0085par0519	Mr. Baydemir, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0082par0520	During my ten years of mayoral office, I've been subjected to dozens of such and so-called plots, and before that, some of the ruling party's oratories have also testified in this General Assembly hall. Do you know where this is originally based? It was a congregation practice, that kind of practice. During the ten-year period, similar plots have been set up in the TK main case and operations during the entire time of our mayors' attack. I'm telling you very clearly, this community needs to get out of this quickly, but quickly. There's no way you can get an ounce of distance with the language of threat, the language of blackmail. Today, the arrest of lawmakers, the arrest of our co-chairs, the arrest of our mayors, the appointment of trustees, the silence of the media, the silence of the media, the silence of the newspapers, the terrorism of all who are opposed, the criminalization of all those who are involved in the violence argument, the preparation of legitimacy for those who embrace the violence argument, the building of their propaganda floor. With that respect, this is not the way; this is not the way. If you really want violence to stop, if you don't want this country to lose its children once again, there's no need to wait for the April month, we can get this country out of this violent spiral by hand tomorrow, and once again, the dialogue, once again, the path of the consultation. It is not possible to bring peace, peace, brotherhood to this country with the language of the period of action, with the language of Sheikh Sait, with the language of the Ramgiri rebellion, with the language of September 12th law, with its practice. When the people of this country lose their lives, when the lives of the people of this country are worthless, so will the legacy of this country. When human, conscientious, moral erosion happens, the lira will lose its value.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0086par0525	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0082par0526	I, once again, invite all the sane people and political groups of this country to meet in the common denominators, to emerge from the spiral of violence, to emerge from the spiral of chaos.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0087par0528	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0086par0529	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0088par0530	Mr. President, the speaker has made an open taunt with our group, using the following statements: from June 7th to November 1st, the government party has opened the way for violence to come to power alone. He has done such a practice. He aims for power.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0086par0531	Here you go, Mr. Mush. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0089par0534	He's targeting power, he hasn't said anything to the AK PARTY President, let the government respond.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0090par0537	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers should ask themselves: "Why did we lose the vote?" See, the esteemed MPs, June 8, 2015, address the rangers: "We know how to turn those AKs to you, you'll get out of here." On July 27, 2015, the PKKK drowns you with spit. You'll use these statements, and the government won't say anything to them. Look, valuable lawmakers, as we're saying here, in case they can't say a word to the terrorist organization, look, I'm gonna use something. There's another structure to them, ACK, making a statement. The Co-Chairs of Co-Chairs say: "We understand from this statement that they do not speak of the complete end of the ceasefire, but the ceasefire should be mutual, the breaching military dam should be mutual, the road construction should stop, and if it does not stop, we read like this. Now, a terrorist organization declares a ceasefire in its own way, cuts, cuts statements. A leader who sees himself as a political party, who considers himself a legal party, and the co-Chair of a political party, said that if we don't stop the dams, that's fine. What do you mean?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0091par0539	Where did he say?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0090par0540	What do you mean, the dam and the road will stop?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0091par0541	Where did he say?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0090par0542	What do you mean, it'll stop? Is that even possible? Is that an explanation? Then you'll turn around and say, "Why did we lose the vote?" Look, there's a political party that can't go to the burrito. Hidayet Tetek, age 4, died in Şırnak İdil. He died as a result of a mine laid on your back by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists. That's why you're losing votes. A 4-month-old baby named Mehmet Can Eringil died in PKK's attack on Bonds. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The more people see your true face, the more they bring you down. Don't worry, it's better what you're taking now.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0092par0545	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0090par0546	Every day, as your true face emerges, you'll encounter a much different, smaller ratio.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0093par0548	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0092par0549	Mr. Baydemir, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0094par0550	Mr. President, you see my request, too, don't you?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0092par0551	I didn't see it. I'll look at it now.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0094par0552	But look.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0092par0553	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0095par0554	Mr. Orator, in response to bullying...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0092par0555	Sorry. Mr. Master, I didn't see it. Because here, on my screen, we have MPs entering the system to ask questions. I usually follow friends who want to get into the system on the screen. That's why I couldn't see you. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0096par0557	How do we do that? I can't solve that problem, the Presidential Court will.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0092par0558	Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0097par0559	Mr. President, when Mr. Orator takes two minutes of his time, he can't say a word.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0092par0560	The one who can't speak to the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0097par0561	Yes, who can't speak a word. He has condemned it by saying, "It's a terrorist organization that they've put their backs to, both for us and for our group." I demand word from the teaser.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0092par0562	Here, two minutes... [[Applause from HDP rows]] They can't talk to the terrorist organization. He made an accusation, which you'll probably correct.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0098par0565	Isn't that what Yüksekdağ said?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0092par0566	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0099par0568	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, once again, you have turned politics into hostility. You're creating a barrier, a set, a barrier, in the face of a common mind with political arguments. I'm telling you very clearly, we reject the idea of the HDP and the HDP reality, no matter who it comes from.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0100par0569	It's not violence, it's terror attacks.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0099par0570	Since violence is not a method of solving problems, I am in Parliament today.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0101par0571	For Kaleshnikov, tell him we reject violence.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0099par0572	I was nominated on June 7th for carrying the faith of the Kurdish and Turkish Parliament through nonviolent methods.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0102par0573	Then deny PKK terror.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0099par0574	But at the same time, we insist on legal democratic politics so that this state can become the common state of the Kurdish and the Turkish state, but you insist on covering it. Look, isn't this a Ceylanpınar attack? Once again, I curse, and curse on the first day, and curse on the first day, in the garden of Suruç, when the bomb went off. And I've made a motion here to investigate, and I said, "Come, let's expose this case with all its nudity." Look, for Derik's sake, Mr. Secretary says that Ahmet Bey did not criticize or condemn. I know, I know Ahmet Bey. We deny the murder, we deny the attack, we condemn the attack, but come... Mr. Secretary, there's something fishy about that murder, something stinks.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0103par0577	As usual.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0099par0578	Look, the AKP has been taken into custody and the candidate for the MP's nomination. And the allegations, quite frankly, are that the allegations are that he's started an investigation into corruption.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0104par0580	Mr. Baydemir, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0099par0581	Look, if we reveal these facts, these realities, the effort to expose them in this General Assembly, who is in favor of violence, how can we eliminate violence, and how can we map the road together?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0104par0583	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0105par0584	It doesn't suit you, shame on you! The lie has stolen your soul.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0104par0585	Mr. Master, if you'll also express verbally as a plus for the statement I just made, we won't have any more problems. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0106par0587	I raised my hand, but I guess you didn't see it, it's a disadvantage to be on this side.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0104par0588	Are you going to make a statement?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0106par0589	Yes, I have a brief request for a word according to Article 60.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0104par0590	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0106par0593	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, after the speech of the Hatiman, I believed that I had to make this determination: Now, in Gaza, in Mosul, in Aleppo, in Aleppo, there is a massacre, a massacre. There's no need to confuse the massacres here with the fight against terrorism of our security forces in our country. It would be a grave mistake to be compared, confused. There's no talking about any massacres of our security forces, our government, against innocent people, there's no talking about anything, there's a war on terror, but there's something completely different going on on on the other side. This grave error should not be made. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0107par0596	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0108par0597	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0107par0598	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0108par0600	It's because I'm on a tight schedule, so I won't be renegotiating the bench again. I agree with Mr. Master. See, there's no such thing as shutting down the moats, let alone the operations. No one, no one, within the borders of sovereignty of a state, can try to create a space for itself, create a domain for itself, and the state will not allow it. The attitude of a political party here is to support all the steps that security units will take at the point of closing these trenches, nothing more. A conditional statement contradicts the existence of the state of the Republic of Turkey. Another is the president of their tongues. Friends, let us not fear the will of the nation, but it is the people who will decide. If he says, "I'll go to the presidency." If he says, he approves, he passes, and if he wants another system, he brings it. There's no way anyone can stop saying that with someone's testimony. If people are respected for their will, I think it's important to respect the people's decision.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0109par0603	Thank you. Mr. Mush, wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0108par0605	I also have to say, Mr. President, look, the state doesn't operate here out of the blue, and the state doesn't operate security units for no reason. Look, I'm telling you, these terrorists broke into their privacy, built tunnels through the walls of the houses, into their bedrooms, into their bedrooms. What's security gonna do with them? He'll hold it, he'll disable it there. He's got to come out here and take a stand against them.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0109par0606	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0110par0607	Don't you know how much you're talking?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0111par0608	Mr. President, where was this state when these tunnels were being dug? Where was this government when these tunnels were being dug?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0109par0609	Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0110par0610	Leave the tunnels. Didn't this government shoot Dilek Doğan?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0111par0611	Where was this government when these tunnels were being dug?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0110par0612	He broke into his house and shot him.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0111par0613	They didn't dig these tunnels overnight. Then you were clapping.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0112par0614	I want to hear Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0111par0615	You didn't see it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0113par0616	Didn't he get 92 percent on September 12th?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0112par0617	I'll listen to Mr. Commander, please.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0114par0618	Those tunnels lasted three years.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0112par0619	Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0115par0620	Mr. Hatibe, our recommendation to the Deputy Director of the Group is that the definition of state...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0116par0621	You're defending HDP! These are for you...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0117par0622	Hakan, watch your language, okay? Watch your language.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0116par0623	I'm paying attention here.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0117par0624	You never know when you're gonna crash.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0116par0625	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0117par0626	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0116par0627	Wow, here we go.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0118par0628	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0117par0629	Okay?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0116par0630	Well, well, well!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0117par0631	Watch your language.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0116par0632	I'm being very careful.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0119par0633	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0117par0634	I'll flash those glasses and you'll come down.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0119par0635	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0120par0636	What the hell is this? Are you a congressman or a thug?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0117par0637	Speak properly.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0120par0638	Are you a congressman or a thug?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0121par0639	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0117par0640	Speak properly.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0120par0641	I'm talking like a man. What the hell?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0122par0642	Hakan, please.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0123par0643	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0122par0644	Please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0124par0645	What the hell? You tell him something.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0125par0646	Don't talk to them, talk to me.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0126par0647	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0124par0648	You tell him something. My group deputy is responding to HDP, which is uncomfortable. What the hell?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0125par0649	Shut the fuck up!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0127par0650	No, no, he's not uncomfortable with that.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0124par0651	What's this?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0128par0652	Mr. Ozkoch, please watch your language.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0124par0653	My group vice president is responding to HDP, and your man is disturbed.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0129par0654	He doesn't mind.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0128par0655	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0130par0656	Speak properly.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0131par0657	Yeah, you two got together.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit01spe0128par0658	I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0128par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2015 1) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2015 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2015 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account CULTURE AND TURISM ACTIVITY [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Terms "I") THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH WRITTEN [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Association 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2015 Central Management Final Account The commission is in place. The government is in place. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mardin MP Ali Atalan will speak as the second speaker. Here you go, Mr. Atalan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0132par0052	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to discuss the National Ministry of Defense budget in 2017. On this occasion, I salute you all. Due to the fact that the current political situation and developments are very important, I would like to point out a few issues regarding the policy concept that is fundamental to this budget, so as not to burden it with budget figures and its technical dimensions. It's the government's national defence policy that's at stake here, or rather, should be, if that's what it is. In our opinion, dear friends, it is not possible to talk about a consistent national defence strategy of the AKP government, but it is called the policy of national swing. The government's various ministers and almost all lawmakers on behalf of the AKP constantly stress that they favour peace, justice, and persecution. In the context of foreign policy, it was discussed yesterday, but, you know, national defence politics can't be dealt with independently of foreign policy. It's important to mention this area with a dream of his. As it is known, in foreign policy, it's either the idealist or the realist or the karma of both. What understanding does the AKP government represent? To us, its foreign policy and national defence perspective, unfortunately, is irrational, incoherent, apocalyptic and day-to-day. I'm sorry, but other than that, nothing is your understanding. Look, for example, when the Kurdish people were struck by disaster in Rojava, and then ISIS was next to us, nothing was said, it wasn't done, but when the Kurdish people began to sweep ISIS out of their territory, the apocalypse would break out and intervene. What is it? National security will be compromised. I thought you said you were in favor of the underdog. You keep saying that. Look, we don't trust or believe you in any of the world's organizations or governments. It's the mindset that's the cause of the crises in the foreign policy that have already arisen. As for the fact that the AKP has never dropped from its tongue, as we keep saying, borders are artificially, artificially drawn in the Middle East by imperialists: this imperialist border, which has broken down Kurdish people, is building concrete walls on its concrete wall, and he boasts on its name. Hundreds of miles of shame are put up between his own relatives, and it is the AKP itself who did it. In fact, based on this stance, it will be seen that it is not different from the mindset of impulse and terakki, so it is driven by an imperial spirit, but will it succeed? Certainly not to us. Because success has neither national nor regional nor global material basis nor basis. So when the road is closer, we want you to turn around, and we want to choose what's right for all of us, and we want to go that way. According to us, Turkey has a historical option ahead of it. In the Middle East, it has the potential, power and power to be an example of its own democracy, the rule of law, its liberal, modern, secular structure, its stable state structure, with all the collective groups and citizens living in it. We can start the Middle East spring here. As long as he has that kind of will. No, but if you say that the national defense is about attacking the Rojava Kurds, if you do a cult-axis policy in Iraq, plus, if you destroy Kurdish settlements such as Şırnak, Silopi, Cizre, İdil, Nusaybin, Sur, Susova, you will not be able to travel as far as God and God knows. In this context, it is good to remind you that if you try to plant Saddam, you will reap Malik tomorrow or another dictator will come, another dictatorship will emerge. There's no other explanation, there's no other way. Dear friends, we see what the government is doing. You're holding the co-captains, MPs, and dozens of mayors of parliament's third largest party hostage. What else are you doing? You arrest scientists, journalists, lawyers; you fire tens of thousands of workers, workers. This situation will not be allowed to be completely normalized, ignored as if it were normal, and we will not. From here, again, we send greetings and greetings to our friends, our co-Chairs, our group presidents, our MPs, and all the mayors of the city and all the victims and the oppressed on the part of Ahmet Turk. Mr. Ahmet, I don't know if the Minister of the Interior is here who dismissed Turk. He'll be here. While I'm here, I'll make a concrete suggestion: he can be whoever he wants, or he can be himself, and if they run against Ahmet Turk, we're all ready to resign if they win. If they have civil courage, please welcome them. Look, my dear Eren Erdem said that it is right and right that he represents the will of 81 million people, not just 6 million. Mr. AKP people, don't worry, if you continue like this, Mr. Seoultin Demirtaş will receive the Nobel Peace Prize in 2017.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0133par0063	Wow, bravo! What the hell are you guys?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0132par0064	We say this government is blocking Turkey's future, blocking its future. Dear friends, I'd like to finish my speech with two quotes from Abraham Lincoln, a politician. It says: "If a country is made up of people who are half free and happy and half unhappy and have no freedom, it can't last for long. " The second quote is: "Someone can deceive some people all the time, but they can't always fool all the people. " I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0134par0068	Thank you. The third speaker of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group will be Ağrı MP Diryet Taşdemir. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0135par0073	Mr. President, I have received a say in the budget of the Defense Industry Undersecretary. I salute you all. In fact, since the end of the solution process by the government's hand, all ministries have been operating as a subcontractor of the Ministry of Defense, which should be noted. Look, actually, you know what the best part of the solution process was, we could actually discuss ideas here on every platform, we could talk. In fact, we had captured a basis for dialogue, but unfortunately, for this peace process, I drank the poison that bore me for the negotiation process. Those who called it the reverse of the process, went back to war and monopoliticism again, I'm afraid. Today we are in such a tragic situation that it is a crime to ask for peace, but those who say, "I will cut it, I will destroy it, I will kill it." So, in fact, the government shapes society with its rhetoric. Look, the peace process was 70 per cent of the people's support for the peace will at the time of the negotiation process, the funerals were not coming, the public was clearly insisting on peace, but when those policies were abandoned, the war cries began again, fascism became part of our everyday lives. I'd just like to give you a brief example: Look, a 21 - year - old woman was slaughtered in Adana -- it was reflected in the press, and you must have followed her -- in six pieces. The person who did this said that I was angry and killed because in his defense, in fact, he called it Kurdistan in his defense as a hate crime. What drove this man, this murderer, to defend this man, is the ground, and it's a good thing to think about it once again. Because he knows that if you make a defense like that, maybe he'll get away with it, or maybe someone in custody will take pictures with him and make him a hero. So, this policy, this policy, the insistence on these war policies, frankly, it provokes society against each other, the hope of peace, and it destroys those beautiful feelings. Look, it's not just a day-to-day politics, but it actually started as a concept after the war was decided. After the plan to crash in the 2014 MGK, they actually took place step-by-step. On April 11th, the first step was taken in the concept of Pain Diyadin, but the sacrifice of the people of Pain, the people of Diyadin, and the faith in peace were lost. The next step was the bombing of the Diyarbakır rally on June 5th. Again, the common sense of our people, of our people, of this concept has failed. What were the steps that followed? On June 7th, the AKP was unable to rule alone. After that, violent policies got deeper and deeper, step by step, until they took power alone on November 1st. Crisis, chaos deepened, cities burned, cities blockaded, curfews declared for months, and in this concept we actually saw the results of November 1st. Today, we face a similar practice, a similar concept, frankly. Today, this concept is being tried to spread in a regional sense for the sake of the presidency. To say that such a concept is in place for the sake of the presidency, that the MPs have been arrested for it, frankly, is in plain sight as a policy. Look, this policy, this concept, it doesn't just work internally, it's actually the concept in foreign policy. The strategy and concept, which previously started as Islamic Islam (,,,,, Europeanization) and then continued as the Deep Strategy (,) today actually brought a country into a regional war. We know clearly and clearly the reasons for this inconsistencies, this chaos and critical steps and politics. The reason for this is the insistence and Kurdish phobia of the Kurdish problem with security policies. Look, every day on this bench, in this House, there are contracts with African countries, trips to Africa every day. We're not against it, of course we should be able to have relations, the government is saying that we have historical ties with the African countries. One foot in Central Asia, in Asia, we have relatives there. You are doing politics, it is true, it should be done, but when it comes to Kurds, the President of the period used a statement like: Where is Kobani, Diyarbakır? Look, the other side of Suruç is Kobani, and the other side of Suruç is Kobani. So the relatives, relatives of 20 million of your citizens, live in that geography. I assure you, Minister, Rojava is closer to you than Asia, or Africa, as long as we can achieve the right alliance. Look, there was a lot of talk here the other day about Sykes-Picott, and Mr. Numan talked about the boundaries of the imperialists. Yes, you're right, you're right, but we also want to remind you that Sykes-Picot is the Kurdish problem itself, and that's the tragedy of Kurds, and that's what we need to know. Look, in Syria, the Syrian people, especially the Kurdish people, have been living without status or identity for years; they have paid a price for years in the oppressive, oppressive policies of the regime. Today, the people are fighting democracy against what you call the "dictator," "Esed," which you call the "Zazilim." Again, today people build their own system, build their democratic system, build a system that sells women in markets, markets, cuts heads, murders, ISIS barbarism. To form an alliance with this system instead of hostility, it is necessary to support this system because, clearly and clearly, this system is a prescription for the Middle East, the solution for Sykes-Picot. I think that's the way it's supposed to be. Another thing is, of course, the developments here, the common will and alliance of the Syrian peoples, are clearly wanted to be terrorized. Let's be clear, there's no one here other than you who sees this struggle as a terrorist, and there's no other policy, and there's no response in the international arena or in the world. We also feel that this policy must be abandoned at once. Once again, we warn the government about this. Second, yes, we're experiencing an O.R. process near five months old. When the State of Emergency was first declared, the Minister of Justice used a clear and clear statement: "We didn't actually declare the State of Emergency against politicians, against the people, against the opponents; we declared the State of Emergency to ourselves. Look, I just want to give you an example of this: I was in Patnos district of Ağrı, before the budget talks started. We wanted to pay a visit to a tradesman. You know, it's cold, usually people live in coffeehouses. I wanted to visit a coffee shop. Let alone the press statement, let alone the show, the march, we can't use all of this anyway, these areas are already closed to us, only to the AKP and to power. The visit I wanted to make at the coffee shop, the talks I wanted to make with the shopkeepers, were blocked. And when I asked the reason for that, the officer there said that it was the governor's decision, and that the coffeehouses were declared a collective area from now on. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm told I can't make these calls for him there. My respects.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0136par0088	Thank you, Mr. Stonedemir. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ankara MP Sırrıyya Önder will speak fourth. Here you are, Mr. Commander. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0093	Thank you, thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, on the budget of the Ministry of Culture, we're going to state our party's views, but I think the Minister of Culture is on the run. Last year, I was referring to the concepts on the official website of the Ministry of Culture, which is the most important for this local and national, and now I'm looking at it, and it looks like last year, someone has made this a delightful issue and fixed it. Our language, in a richness that corresponds to all these foreign concepts, it would be nice for everyone with such a word universe to show a bit of sensitivity here, with a concern for domestic and nationality. On the other hand, I feel sorry for friends from AK PARTY, friends who speak for this budget, and I'm not being ironic. I'm sorry, because they're getting a Ministry bulletin, and a lot of our friends don't even bother to read it, so they read this ministry bulletin here without adding anything of their own, like, you know, see it in the market. I think they've had 3 ministers; 317 ruling MPs, 17-20 people -- 14 people before noon -- there's only 17 people in this country who are curious about national defenses, culture and internal affairs, and 15 on average. The commission and the minister's order, the order of the bureaucrat, is more than the number of MPs who are curious. And this...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0138par0097	I think you're wrong.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0098	If we're wrong, there's math.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0138par0099	You know why? They are given out of the Kandil, where they read.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0139par0100	Please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0101	Now, our friend here has made a brilliant taunt.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0138par0102	No, it's not intelligence, you have to accept it, admit it. I mean, you think you're doing something to humiliate people like that.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0103	These texts are given to us from the kandil. The Kandil will not be able to work, and the Ministry of Culture will wonder whether it is a destination or a portal. So, pass...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0140par0104	What's it to you? It's none of your business.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0141par0105	Mr. Commander, please don't be ironicly critical of the speech of fellow MPs.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0106	Yesterday, we had a friend, but he added something to it; a Mr. Mardin MP, speaking in the Ministry of Justice's budget, was listing literature from the Justice Academy, saying "Kurýan and isolation." For him, I took back my sorrow. Just read the Ministry bulletins.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0142par0107	Where do you get the Ministry bulletins now? How do you find yourself entitled to this kind of talk about other surrogates?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0108	At least friends who confuse Tecvit (Tecvit) with (Teccrit) will remain since this error. Now, friends, on the other hand, there are things that can't be weighed in the same scale as culture, the same scale as art. There's a saying, I'd like to start by saying it: "When knowledge falls into the hand of evil, it speaks to the truth and opens the door to superstition. " Now, the concept that our friends, speaking for the Ministry of Culture budget, use for their own use, is that it's a metaphor, a metaphor, and there's a saying that's very sexist, and I don't want to repeat it, and I don't want to make it a shame, it's an insult to her. Well, it's everybody's right to expect a little grace from someone who speaks for the Ministry of Culture. I hope they'll pass it on to Mr. Nabi Hunter when he gets here. We thought they were sensitive about these things.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0143par0111	Well, why don't you talk to us and we'll listen to what's spoken?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0112	Now, genius... the second time you talk to me, you'll have your words in your pocket, so don't throw them out of empty saddlebags. Now, the country has its problems, we have to say something about them.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0144par0114	Ego poisoning, ego...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0115	The guitars are too loud. Look, for him, be smart, let's talk budget here, let's go with the budget.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0144par0116	You've got ego poisoning, ego poisoning. Poisoned. Alas, woe, woe indeed!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0145par0117	Mr. Commander, you're insulting the MPs, please.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0118	Yes, the woman is being insulted, Mr. President, you don't invite them to be taken into custody, you insult me... you say so.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0144par0119	No, Mr. President, he's got ego poisoning.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0145par0120	But you're making fun of the MPs.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0121	Why would I insult you?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0145par0122	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0123	Why would I insult you?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0145par0124	I didn't say you're insulting me, you're mocking me, please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0146par0125	No, it's ironic. Watch your language.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0126	Until yesterday, we all know who's holding hands with archetypes and influence.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0145par0127	Criticize me, but don't mock me, please.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0128	I criticize, I don't mock, I don't mock...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0147par0129	He's beating himself up about making jokes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0130	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Now, dear friends...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0147par0133	They've found the ready mass, they're laughing.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0148par0134	Congressmans, we're listening.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0135	...a few moments ago, the deputy in power -- we were unable to use our right to answer because of the recession -- to express what we should do to the state, how we should pledge to the state, the ditch, the barricade, the Rojava issues, that we did not receive this attitude. The question is, which state? Now, when I first spoke about the budget, what was the truth of all this? I said I would share something in every conversation. Now I'd like to present a little attention to what this state did or did not do in Rojava. All of your Witnesses are alive, all of your witnesses are alive, and you believe in the motto of perpetuity in the state. Your Prime Minister, before Bakili Bey, I think we can accept him as a state, so there's no blame on that, is there? Friends, the negotiation process in Rojava was in trouble. Everyone's arguing in the wrong place. As you have heard, in Horasan, the carpet touches, whether it is wide or wide, no one knows. This is a photo of the Dolmabahçe declaration. Mr. Idris Baluken, who is now being held prisoner, is sitting in the first place, and two of the government's ministers and your group's vice president, we've been lined up like this, we've announced a historic declaration. What was that? There was going to be a call to the disarmament convention. Any one of these two ministers and a group of vice presidents here just say, I don't want proof, the secret didn't tell the truth. Let him say, I'll apologize, that's clear. I mean, let him just say that the truth wasn't what he said it was. I don't want any proof, he'll come here, he'll look us in the eye. No, it's not true. Now, the state delegation and the government delegation were very persistently petitioning Mr. Ocalan, and they said: "Give us a date for this disarmament congress before this declaration." As a matter of fact, Mr. President was on a trip to Latin America at the time, they asked him about this statement he made about the Dolmabahç declaration -- and then I don't know him, and I don't see that photo." He said, "Before this declaration, we were expecting something more." He said, "We were expecting a little bit more." What I'm saying is that he may have meant this part in a different way as a word. Mr. Ocalan has asked the government and the government...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0149par0140	The terrorist, Ocalan, is not Mr. Ocalan.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0141	Mr. Ocalan has asked the government and the government...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0149par0142	Terrorist...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0143	The delegation there called him Mr. Ocalan. There's no need for him to...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0149par0144	Ocalan the traitor.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0145	That's what he said. When you say government, which state, when you say government...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0150par0147	Please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0137par0148	...which government business we're looking at. Now, he said, "Let the monitoring board come." This was the agreement we came to with the government after we read this Dolmabahçe declaration. Have the surveillance board come to the island. A layer was built over the Imranite, and there were no bars. There was a meeting table for 25 to 30, and a conference system was created. In the presence of this monitoring committee, he said, "I'm going to call for this arms drop convention." This date was agreed with the government delegation. We were trying to raise April, May, even Nevroz. Now, that's a promise. I'll apologize when you say there's something missing. When you say there's something wrong, there's something wrong. After that, the surveillance committee, which state... These differences, where these sabotages came from, the keys to who finished the process are here, and that's what I'm talking about, and I'm not doing politics and I'm not revealing anything secret; they've been written in many places, they've been told, they've been talked about. The government recommended the majority of the surveillance committee. I had in mind the names of the Watch Committee from Ahmet Taşgetiren to Crescent Kaplan. A few names have been discussed, but in the final analysis, the following talks will be recorded here. Since it is said, we have stopped discussing the names. Then those names fell to the media, and the government accused us, and you gave these names to the media. Together, we found the first way out of RTÜK. It turned out that a news channel that was very close to the government had been the first subtitle at 6:34 p.m., the first outlet of the news. Then, they considered it a sabotage, and the government said to us: "Well, it has nothing to do with you, it has nothing to do with us." The answer to the question of which state? I'm trying to offer a perspective on whether these leaks or those who are trying to build peace or those who are trying to sabotage peace. After that, it was the last time we had an interview in Imran. Mr. Ocalan has pledged, and it's in the Dolmabahçe declaration: I say this as a statement of intent. I'm going to call the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) for the arms drop congress when the monitoring committee arrives. The government has made a valid approach to this intention, and that's how we gave this Dolmabahçe photo. This will take its place in history as the most honorable attempt in history. The 9 articles there will not be criticised from anywhere who has any sensitivity to this country's unity, integrity, integrity, indivisibility, indivisibility, if it does not happen today as the democratization manifesto in this country, if not tomorrow, the next day, as a member of this state, Mr. Idris Baluken. The organization demonstrates the intensity of crimes committed by propaganda as a coherent to membership, for reasons that it has done so much propaganda that it is a member of the organization at all. Mr. Idris Baluken and I had 117 meetings with all of the executives of the PKK, the NECK, that the state didn't know about. None of these 117 meetings were the agenda of our individual or HDP (HDP) or BDP (HDP); they were all to cross the road to peace, to overcome obstacles, to catch a common language, to ensure the continuation of conflict if we could do nothing, to prevent the bloodshed... The problem here, dear friends, is that when a conflict is to be ended, there are general rules of post-conflict solutions in the world. This is all in the Home Secretary's archives most of the time, they did the work. This is: disarming or disarming, that's the process we call a road map, which is a phase after being overcome. In the world that has successfully finalized 30 per cent of its post-conflict solution processes, you're watching 94% of it without disarmament -- Colombian processes, other processes -- as the latest phase... Now, negotiations are constantly trying to be criminalized like this. That's what the negotiations are for, friends, with all the gunfights. Why would we put so much effort into this agenda if there were no gunfights? For him, we need to consider the armed conflict not as an obstacle to the negotiations, but as the greatest reason for the negotiations to take place, we need to start here. If we don't start here, there's no distance to go, because that's not what happened anywhere in the world. There's a lot of damage. It's been ours, ours, the government's, all of us without a doubt, the wrong, the more, but we intended to do a job that had been done for the first time in Turkey's repertoire. I'll continue to express my gratitude from here to my last breath. It's the first time we've ever done it, we're going to build our own drink. Before us, Turkey had no such tradition or experience of negotiation in the recent, middle-term, distant political history. We tried, wrongly, by breaking his head, by breaking his eye, by making a mistake, by trying to pull it together when we realized it, and it was blocked. He's been blocked and we're paying his bill heavily today. I'll leave Rojava to my speech tomorrow, but I'll give you a brief hint of my speech tomorrow: Mr. Davutoglu has had a meeting with the Imralı delegation. He asked me, "Mr. Commander, when we began this process, it is also true for Mr. Davutoglu that I said in the beginning, that if he says, he says, "The secret is not wrong, it's not wrong -- I'll come out and apologize, it's so obvious." He said that at first this Rojava was not the agenda of our solution process. For God's sake, what happened when we started discussing Rojava, and now we can't take a step forward? I told him, we had met before he became Prime Minister: Rojava has the possibility of having a door to open, not the lock of the solution process. The National Defense Department is here today, and the bureaucrats are here. You know, you're gonna plant as much as you do. There's an Anatolian expression, and we're way out of line here. The question can also be asked, which army is this? More than half of the military attachés, who represent this army outside, represent the state, are traitors, and you stand up looking for traitors during the House. The general of this army, more than half of the officer's staff, the traitor of the state, is answering inside; you stand up during the House, looking for traitors in the votes of the people, who have come with as many saintly votes as you do; everything as a mirror, as transparent, as clear as a statement. So, I said, I said, there is no exception to Idris Bauken's membership in the organization. If not, you can rebut me in two minutes, not so, but with the organization, he's done this, and we're willing to do that. No. So I said to him, I said, "This is it, this is it; there is no value in our involvement in the Middle East as a military force. The key to our being a force in the Middle East is our ability and ability to offer democratic offers to the people of the region. You say this is a custom, that the Middle East can become a home of the peoples with relaxed borders. Our only advantage, and our only approach in the United States, Russia, and other imperial forces, is to attract the attention of the people of the region, the underdogs, is a democratic proposal, which is rejected. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can you give me two minutes, Mr. Group?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0151par0162	President, Ayþe Acar Başaran is entitled to two minutes of...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0152par0163	Okay, fine. I give you two minutes of the time of Ayþe Acar Başaran.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0153par0165	I apologize to our deputy Ayþe. The rest is tomorrow. I'll tell you the rest tomorrow. What did we go through with military bureaucracy, security bureaucracy? How did Rojava become an obstacle when it became an opportunity? How did Solomon's Shah Temple move into the house? How was Salih Müslim invited with a gold-lit invitation today that they put out an APB on him? How did he, Salih Müslim, and I, and the person who was going to be the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, move the Solomon Shah Temple in partnership with the YPG, with the PYD? I'll tell you these parts tomorrow, maybe there'll be more lines. But I'll tell you what Mr. Davutoglu said today, perhaps it would be easier if he felt the need to rebuttal by tomorrow. He said: Mr. Commander, please, go and tell them, this is Rojava's red line for state and security bureaucracy. They declare it at the highest level and at every level. Now that I'm here, go tell them, Rojava, the NYD is not our red line. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0154par0170	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0153par0171	I'm sorry. I've got time. If I go without saying anything to Ahmet Abi, it'll be a shame for your efforts on me. Guys, this is a photo of Mardin City Hall. The seat of office was impounded while the mayor of the EC PARTY was in custody. You had the government, the city, and you had a lot of funds from international funds to renew that historical, cultural fabric. So many allegations of corruption have come to light... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mardin Mayor's personal seat was impounded. What does Mr. Ahmet take from the rock?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0155par0175	Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0153par0176	He's a person he can't pick a powder from. Let it be our duty to send him back to his people and his freedom, which he deserves and belongs to him as soon as possible. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0155par0179	Thank you, Mr. Commander. Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0156par0181	Mr. President, in his speech, he has made an unacceptable statement using both our MPs and our party group, as well as a reference to me, which state has made an open challenge to our group with questions. I demand word from that point of view.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0155par0182	Here you go, Mr. Mush. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0157par0185	Dursun is a colleague, he'll be fine.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0158par0186	Put him in front of Sir Sir.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0155par0187	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0158par0190	Mr. President, while listening to Mr. Commander-in-Chief, he speaks in such words that, as you say, the PKK has never set off a live bomb in the region, in Ankara, in Istanbul, has done anything...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0159par0191	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0158par0192	...six months old, one year old, four years old, never murdered children, never went to the privacy of people, never let people out of the house, never tried to build a kingdom, never did that; so-called courts, never tried to blackmail people, never did any of them, a painting like this. There's a lot about the pictures you're showing, a lot about the photos, that's what they said on this stand. The state has made an attempt to end terrorism in good faith, yes, but if you abuse the good intentions of this state, you'll know this time that the government will see the iron fist of the state, the PKK, the terrorist organization; that's the way it is, there's no other way. However, Mr. Leader, who gave peace signals and peace messages from here, spoke to the Kalashnikovs behind him with the so-called flag of the PKK terrorist organization, while he was speaking with his rag. Now, it's not right to ignore all of this and blame the state, the government, the government, the government, all that has come out of it, to blame the government and the government for it. From now on, the nation, the people, and the people, and whatever the government and the people want, our government will take all the necessary steps in this regard, and I want to make sure that our people in the region know that we will free you from this PKK terrorist organization, from its militants, from its supporters.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0160par0196	Thank you. Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0161par0198	Behind me you said, "What was that gun?" I don't know. He's giving a speech about it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0162par0199	Let me show you, it's in your picture.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0161par0200	Yeah, yeah... He made a taunt, an issue where I was arrested, taken into custody and released, and I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0163par0202	Mr. Commander, I will promise you, but Mr. Mush has voiced criticism that you have never mentioned what the PKK did during your speech.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0161par0203	Besides, give him two minutes, and I'll give him two.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0163par0204	The loot is in my heart. Come in for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0164par0206	Mr. Commander, the photo is here, you can use it if you want.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0163par0207	Mr. Commander, I have invited you to the stand, please.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0165par0208	We're not afraid of photos, guys. There's no pictures you haven't seen yet.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0163par0209	Your time is running, but I've run your time.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0165par0210	Don't run my time until I'm on the stand, please restart it. Mr. President, please restart my time.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0163par0211	We'll probably start over. Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0165par0214	Well...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0166par0215	Let the Turkish people see your true face, Mr. Sýrým Bey.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0165par0216	Yes, let him see, let him see; this is the true face that Mr. Mus is offering, and I have been taken into custody for it, and Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has asked me to testify about it, and I am among you today. Don't be so eager to press a new charge. These, these activities -- I don't mean guns -- our lives...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0167par0217	An AK, an AK in the back? Answer the Akelek.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0165par0218	Could be, could be, could be.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0168par0219	You said peace, there are guns.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0165par0220	Excuse me.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0169par0222	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0165par0223	These are the most honorable pages of our lives.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0170par0225	You can't talk like that.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0171par0226	Shame on you! That's all I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0172par0227	What pages, Mr. Commander?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0173par0228	Peace effort, peace effort.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0174par0229	You can't talk like that on that stand.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0172par0230	Mr. Commander... Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0173par0231	If you let me go, I'll talk.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0172par0232	Look, Mr. Commander, I'm cutting you off, I'll add.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0173par0233	Why?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0172par0234	You have a document, these pages are our pages of honor. You said. Now, please explain your page or your peace initiatives.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0175par0235	Being with baby killers is your honor page?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0176par0236	Honor for what?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0172par0237	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0177par0238	I'll tell you if you don't interrupt me.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0172par0239	I've rebooted your time.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0177par0240	Friends, this 2016 is the Nevroz...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0178par0241	Don't show me that picture again, don't show it!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0177par0242	Your proxy gave it to me, your proxy gave it to me.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0178par0243	Don't point at him, don't point at him from that stand.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0177par0244	Make a deal. I'll keep showing you, and you two can work it out. It's 2016, there's a debate about me and Mr. Selahattin, so let me tell you about his escort. He already has an alibi in this room, as well. Mr. Interior Minister of the period, the Prime Minister of the period, has asked us to do so, he said... Cizre, Sur is devastated; they haven't been there yet. The representatives of the civil society in Şırnak came -- these were the people they called the President's ruling leader -- and they said, "Let the state not do what you did there, or else we will not be able to maintain this neutral position." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...at the request of the Prime Minister, Mr. Minister of Interior -- it is not on our agenda, it is not me or Mr. Demirtaş -- who called for peace at this request...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0179par0249	Mr. Commander, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0177par0250	...advocating peace... I went to the request, speaking in 2016 in Nevroz. You guys get the transcript of that speech. The judge looked at that speech and released me on probation.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0179par0252	Mr. Commander, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0180par0253	Mr. President, I won't take any promises. In Turkey...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0179par0254	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0180par0255	You can keep it. Here, keep it in your archives, your honor page.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0181par0256	I've got it, I've got it all framed in my house.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0179par0257	Congressmans, you may continue your conversation, your bilateral conversation outside.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0180par0258	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0179par0259	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0180par0260	I want this to go into the Parliament's records: I want peace in this country when you have weapons behind you and the terror organization of the PKK behind you. It's not believable if you say it, people don't pay attention to it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0179par0262	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0182par0263	Mr. President, this is a digital indicator panel behind us.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0183par0264	fucking Billboard.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0184par0266	What difference does it make?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0182par0267	Excuse me.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0185par0268	Congressmans, we're listening to his statement.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0182par0269	He's showing active images on the synesthesum.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0186par0270	Sure, it's active.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0182par0272	Every night, like this one, it's on every news channel, hundreds of times. We've looked at this, too. Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has launched an investigation into this, not a non-obstruction decision, but an acquittal of what?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0187par0273	You're saying it's important what you think, my honored page.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0182par0274	It's about the setup committee. Because they're responsible. Why did he order an acquittal? Something like a documentary or a short film or something from these active images, that's what it looks like. If we had chosen the weapon, we wouldn't be here.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0188par0275	And that was your honor.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0189par0276	Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0182par0277	I, Mr. President, have traveled 17,000 kilometers through the Imran-Kandil-Ankara line through the peace process.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0189par0278	Mr. Commander, thank you, you've made your statement, but please wrap it up.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0182par0279	If I'd preferred the gun, I'd have stayed there any time I went, be my guest.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0189par0281	Mr. Commander, I wish you'd made that statement when this photo went to the press. And you appreciate it's not a pretty picture.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0190par0282	We did it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0191par0283	He did it, he did it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0189par0284	Please, friends...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0192par0285	Mr. President, when this photo was released to the press, we made a very detailed statement.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0189par0286	All right, then. All right.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0193par0287	My honor page. What are you telling me in detail?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0192par0288	But another name for fascism is the necessity to speak.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0189par0289	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0194par0290	Say that under the Turkish flag.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0192par0291	Okay, so say it in this secret language, condemn it, curse it; that's not going anywhere.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0189par0292	Mr. Commander, thank you, I understand.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0192par0293	That's not the language of peace. Because no one's ever come this way to peace.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0189par0294	Let's just say it's not the language of peace, and it's not a photograph.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0195par0295	We condemn fascism, condemn all kinds of fascism. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2015 1) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2015 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2015 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account CULTURE AND TURISM ACTIVITY [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Terms "I") THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH WRITTEN [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Association 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2015 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0196par0339	The fifth and final speaker of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group will be Mr. Ayşe Acar Başaran, Batman MP. Here you are, Mr. Ayþe Acar Başaran. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0197par0343	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, yes, in a one-and-a-half-year period, we actually see that we're going through a war spiral, and in all the recent talks, unfortunately, we see and predict that we'll be back in a war spiral in the next year's policies.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0198par0345	Fighting terrorists, not war, fighting terrorists.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0197par0346	This war is war against culture, war against women, war against nature, war against civilian politicians, war against the will of the people.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0198par0347	Anti-terrorists, anti-killers. Traitors, scoundrels...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0199par0348	Mr. Başaran... Mr. Başaran, there is no war in our country, there is no fight against terrorism. Please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0197par0349	Mayor, I'll explain, if you'll just let me. Mayor, if you let me go, I'll explain.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0199par0350	Please... continue.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0197par0351	We say there's a war against civil will. Look, our friends in the photo in front of me were taken hostage by one night's blow. Every time we say he's being held hostage, you give a lot of excuses.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0200par0352	They were not taken hostage, they were arrested by the state of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0197par0353	The arrest was taken because they didn't go to confession. You say, "You have a lot of excuses." I just want to give one as an example for the record here: Şırnak MP Leyla Birlik. Leyla Birlik was in Midyat, who was not in her home that day, unfortunately because she was under the blockade of Şırnak because she was busy being destroyed, not in her home, not in Midyat, not in her official residence. The police went through the checkpoint, but there was no statement that he had been called to testify in any way. He went home to Mr. Mehmet Ali Aslan, our Batman MP, and the time was waited, and the night was half past midnight because the button had been pressed from one centre. So, how was it determined that our deputy was there at our congressman's house? These MPs are either in physical pursuit or in technical pursuit, but like I said, the clock has been held because one center programmed three provinces on the same day in one hour. That goes for Mr. Farhad Encu, too, my friends. Mr. Ferhat Encu, our Şırnak MP wanted to go abroad for a program, his passport was confiscated at the airport, but there was not a single sentence said that he had been called to testify that day, that he had been arrested, that there was a detention warrant. What's done? It was half past 1:00 in the morning. Now, you're talking about independent and impartial judgment. That's what you said during the TKC, you went back to those choruses. We told you guys back then. Today, we're going through a process where the courthouse doors are closed, where police and prosecutors are being operated on at the courthouses. How can you speak of an impartial and independent judgment?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0201par0356	When he's released, he's an independent judge, and when he arrests him...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0197par0357	Friends, yesterday's decision was made to fall to the Blue Marmara, where you were propaganda over a long period of time, where you voted on it. Why? You made an agreement with Israel. Did those people give up their complaint because you had an agreement with Israel? Are these people so happy now that you have an agreement with Israel? They're insubordinate, they won't accept this decision. But yesterday, he decided to drop your independent judgment on this case. Yeah, why are we talking about this in the Ministry of Culture's budget, unfortunately, of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism? Because if there is no peace in this country, we see what culture has become. Especially from the World Day of Human Rights on December 10th, we need to remember a name today, Tahir Elçi, especially when we talk about the Ministry of Culture budget. While trying to protect the Four-legged Minare, Mr. Tahir Elçi, a human rights advocate and a constant fugitive, who fought against crimes committed by the state in particular, was murdered at the feet of Minare the Four-legged. We've made a motion to investigate, and if you had, the perpetrator would have been found, and you wouldn't have bothered, because you know how to knit. Whatever. I want to remember again from here, on this Day of Human Rights, Mr. Tahir Eval, our brother Tahir, with respect and gratitude. Yeah, like I said, we're talking about the Ministry of Culture and Tourism budget. And as a Batman MP, I'd like to ask the Ministry of Culture: Why hasn't there been an application for Hasankeyfbook, which has nine of the ten criteria of UNESCO? And I'm going to go further and further and say, why is it today that this historic place, which is home to many civilizations, is under water for a few years of energy revenue? But it's not our concern to protect them, I'm afraid. Let us make way for future generations in history. Energy is important. I want to mention the Minister of Energy's word. Yes, energy is very important, friends, and we know it, but let's not fight nature when we produce this energy, let's not slay nature, let's not fight culture, let's not slaughter our cultural values. Today, Hasankeyf is the duty of the Ministry of Culture to protect all of us, all of us sitting here, from their own past. Again, I'd like to talk about the Ayder Yayla in particular in the Ministry of Culture and Tourism budget today. A Black Sea MP -- I think it was Trabzon -- mentioned that tourism was developing. Yes, my friends, to improve tourism, I'm afraid we're sending a TKİ (TİKI) to Ayder Yayla, one of the greatest natural wonders today, why? Someone's got to win a runt, so somebody can make money off of him. Let's let Ayder Yayla stay on his own, let's let her be beautiful for a lifetime, let's not touch it, folks. Let's also say, you know, today in Turkey -- or perhaps, if you don't know -- 15 languages, friends, are in danger of extinction. Do you know that? These languages include Lazca, Zazaca. A language called Hertevin, perhaps none of you have heard, but a language that is in great danger, in need of protection, I'm afraid. These are the languages on the map, among the languages that UNESCO now states are at stake. There are 15 languages, unfortunately, that are in danger of extinction. Does the Ministry of Culture have any work in that direction? But we know you're not. We know that there's no study of it, it's true, but the institutions that work on it are also being shut down, my friends. Look, there was a language association called Kurdi-Der that said Kurdish should be improved and studied, but this association was shut down.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0202par0362	Why, why is it closed? Why is it closed?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0197par0363	You don't do it, let people try to protect their own language. Friends, with these war policies, with this warmongering, you're going to leave our future generations; yes, you're going to leave your way, perhaps, by plundering nature and leaving dams. We're going to leave the earth, looting nature, leaving buildings, leaving no green space, leaving no place to look at the sky. But unfortunately, we're going to leave one more thing, and that's the kind of language that's in danger of being destroyed, and we're going to leave a lot of mourning in this land, I'm afraid. But, you see, I say, we will continue to fight against it to see the sound of peace, the cry of peace rise, instead of those mourning. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0203par0367	Thank you. Mr. Demirel, you've entered the system.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0204par0369	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0203par0370	What's this about? Do you have a request?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0204par0371	Mr. President, I have a request according to 60, and I have a few things to clarify.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0203par0372	Here, wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0204par0375	Mr. President, it's been expressed here several times, and there's a situation that state officials have expressed. As a low-density battle process of this process, you can find it in many government records, as well as in explanations. That's how it's explained. You know, it's not just because we said it as a whole -- you interfered in private, but in this war process -- it's an expression of a low-density war, which the authorities have expressed in all state records. That's how you're supposed to see it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0205par0376	There's a war on the terrorist.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0204par0377	And secondly, we've made it very clear about this Blue Marmara. Today we're talking about the independence of the judiciary again. I'm afraid we've made it very clear that the judiciary is not independent. When we think about the Blue Marmara incident alone, the fall of the Blue Marmara case is actually a sign of how political the judiciary is, it's necessary to see it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0206par0379	Pack it up, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0204par0381	Thank you, Mayor. I'll finish with two sentences. The fact that the Blue Marmara case has been demanded is an example of how political the judiciary has become. Let us put it this way: If the relationship between the AKP and Israel had not been developed that way, there would have been no fallout in this case. This is an example of how political the judiciary has become, how intertwined the judiciary and politics are, in fact, today's request for a mistrial. I thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0207par0384	Thank you, too. I think there's a war on terror in the country, I don't think there's a war. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Sky, come in. Are you going to make a statement based on your position?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0208par0389	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0209par0390	Tell us who you're fighting, and we'll know. You're fighting a Turkish soldier, let's know what you're fighting.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0210par0391	Is there really no war? Go to the area, is there a war or not?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0211par0392	Congressmans, we're listening to the deputy leader of the group. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0212par0395	Mr. President, I was about to, but I have to say it because it's right there. This Blue Marmara case is the top of the issues that power can't account for today in the world, tomorrow in the afterlife. For years, a government that developed a policy against Israel over the Blue Marmara, channeling people in that direction, was eventually found in a crucial error, by giving Israel $20 million in the rights of the victims, only of his own free will. Such sacrifices don't go away by government agreements. Ask the victims if they're getting along. The point that has come today in the case of the Blue Marmara is truly an exemplary point, and it is also a cautionary tale of how our citizens, our citizens, have been abused in this matter for years, have been exposed by such an impromptu attitude of power.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0211par0398	Please complete, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0212par0399	It's an exemplary story of how much our citizens have been put through. There's probably something to talk about for a very long time, and this picture of the government coming about the Blue Marmara and being completely violated by the victims' rights is not a picture that can be forgotten in terms of justice. Therefore, the government, who ratified such an agreement, signed it, must have said something to the victims, that the victims were not convinced, that the Turkish people were not convinced. I, too, am critical of this exemplary case today, and once again draw attention to the government's indiscriminate attitude about bringing it to the point of decline.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0211par0401	Thank you. Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0213par0404	Mr. President, I have to express in particular that there is a counterterrorism process in Turkey, not a war. The state of Turkey is the process of cleaning and liquidating this armed terrorist organization, which is responsible for the lives of police units, security units, citizens, armed forces, and the lives of our security forces. There is never, ever a low-density war here. It is absolutely out of the question for us to accept such an expression.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0214par0405	It's not me, it's the archives.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0213par0406	That's out of the question, and we don't accept who's saying it. There's a struggle with the terrorist organization here. There's a process of disarming this terrorist organization that's trying to get into the streets, trying to kill people, orchestrating live bombings, using trucks, attacking our security units' buildings, their compounds.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0215par0408	Please complete, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0213par0409	Here, there will be a full fight against terrorism, terrorists, and as we can see now, we will see that our government, our nation, our government, are on the side of our citizens in the region with all its resources. I'm saying we're gonna fight terrorism, we're gonna fight terrorists, we're gonna get our citizens out of their hands. Anyone can come up with a phrase for themselves. It's about reality and reality. This fight continues with a vicious and treacherous terrorist organization. We have to make it clear from here that if our government is not responding to the call of the terrorist who took a gun and went up the mountain, what else is there to do? That leaves us with an option to neutralize him using law enforcement, and that's what's happening right now.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0215par0411	Thank you. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2015 1) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2015 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2015 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account CULTURE AND TURISM ACTIVITY [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Terms "I") THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH WRITTEN [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Association 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2015 Central Management Final Account Congressmans, just now, friends in the system to ask questions in the QA have been deleted from the screen for a technical reason. Now, I'm going to read your name in order that the lawmakers have to enter the system in order to be able to rephrase the question-asking section. I read: Mr. Gürer, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Çayak, Mr. Paşoğlu, Mr. Man, Mr. Çay, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Ahrazoglu, Mr. Güllücuoğlu, Mr. Tor, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Yilanalp, Mr. Turpcu, Mr. Arslan. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0216par0458	Mr. President, I can't see most of those names you're reading here right now, but if you could remind me a little while before we go to the QA, because there aren't many of them.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0217par0459	If you leave it at the end...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0215par0460	Okay. I'll have friends get into the system, and then, when that part comes in, I'll give you another reminder. Now, let's hear from the speakers of the National Movement Party Group. First, Mr. Kadir Koçdemir will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0218par0466	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute your grand delegation. Again, at the beginning of my words, I pray to our veterans with mercy and gratitude for all our martyrs who have been martyred for the unity of our country, including Mohamed Safiturk and the martyr of the King's House of Derik, which we have made a fresher martyr, Muhammad Safiturk and the martyr of the Crown of Peace. Today we're discussing the Ministry of Interior budget, but we're trying to give the right to the budget from opposition, people, reality, to a decrepit government 800 years ago with Magna Carta. Today, however, we are in a situation where my former colleague, the poet Ashraf, described it very well with this verse. He says: "A poor cry for help, the government thinks that the things that are said here are being met with laughter, with intelligence, with arrogance, and unfortunately, we can't make the power given by the nation to contribute to the process of living. The government distorts the issues well. For example, every year he tells us that he's devoted the largest share of the Republic's history to national education. A day or two ago, PISA came through, and unfortunately, we're the 2nd from the last of the OECD countries in PISA. Those who are better than us in other countries are the United Arab Emirates, Uruguay, Romania, Moldovia and Albania. If so many projects, so many spendings are achieved, please don't be interested in this national education, don't devote large resources to national education so that our national education, as before, will follow at least an upward course. Similar attention applies to our urgent concerns. We're very interested in the parity of the dollar at this time. If they're not interested in this for five or ten days, especially Mr. President, I think the dollar will be normal. I'd like to congratulate our Home Secretary on a few things. In particular, we have recently seen how effective determination is in the fight against terrorism, and we support that attitude. This determination against the separatist organization has begun to manifest itself, against the PKK and against ISIS. Again, we are pleased to see that the Ministry of Interior is more zealous, according to other ministries, in terms of remaining in law in the fight against ا. Even though it has been said that the manager of nearly 400 things has been suspended and has been removed, the principles of the legal state are being observed here, and this is satisfactory. But I'd like to express my system on one thing. Recklessness to the living is incompatible with this Ministry's function. Not only does our Minister not answer questions, but we can't even get information from the Home Secretary's departments as a normal website address. But when I read the Minister's speech at the budget presentation and the Plan and Budget Commission, I saw that this information was not given to the Minister. For example, we have reduced traffic accidents. The number of deaths in traffic accidents has increased in contrast with the Minister's statement since 2012. From 3,750 (7.750) to 3,821) in 2015. In 2015, the actual number was found, including those who died outside the scene of the car crash, and 7.530 people died in traffic accidents in 2015. That means 20 casualties per day, every day. In this way, bragging about it shows a lack of truth, of reality. Instead, Mr. Secretary talks about implanting chips in gas stations. If it's gonna keep us safe, let's put in a chip for 80 million, where everybody's doing what they're doing, we'll have eyes everywhere, and we'll have no problem with security. I.T., equipment-selling lobby is effective around here, so I'll get back to it. Sir, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is a ministry in many areas of our lives, from birth to death, from the register process of population to the funeral burial process of municipalities, and is far behind in the financial and autonomy rights of this ministry, especially compared with the peers of the general administration staff. The situation of the village rangers who became security guards has been improved, but in terms of social security, it's as if they're still working as if they were fugitives. Our police have had 3,600 additional indicators to be described for years, but so far no results have been taken. The negative differences between our expert gendarmes and their peers continue, especially as part of their school term as a service. Again, after the powers taken from our chiefs, they have only been reduced to a duty officer, and I'm afraid the state of their influence in public services regarding their whereabouts has been compromised. The law on municipal administrations has confused local services in the country in terms of responsibility, and has negatively affected the position of service of units far away from the centre, which cannot be explained by the transition period. Again, property managers -- who are the property managers -- if we didn't have them in multiparty lives, a lot of things would have been more negative than they are today -- are public officials who are close to everything, anywhere, everyone. Again, when you put an olive in the mouth -- in the words of a brother in the profession -- people who, unfortunately, have done a great deal of service in the country, with such small opportunities to extract oil from the barrel, with absences -- but in recent years, the gap between their predecessors and their civil servants is growing in terms of financial and autonomy rights. I have a public investigation of a research company in Bursa. According to this, friends, the most important problem of Turkey is what do you think it is? The question has been asked: 48.11 per cent of it is terror, 12.20 per cent unemployment, 5.89 per cent economy. Here, you can view it as a perception -- like in weather situations -- but if you download 48 percent, you can download it to 45, 40. If terror is still the biggest problem in this country, we need to move forward and assess our own situation. The real problem is terrorism, because before the PR building collapsed, we had a mosque there, you know. I've stated here before, that the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in this very electronically, very tightly controlled parliament, friends go to Friday's prayer with a lot of signal cutters, a power car and a guard army, 30-40 meters from here. You know, one of the conditions of Friday prayer is to be free, one of the shortest definitions of freedom is to be free of fear. If we can't go anywhere in this House, then the Home Secretary has to look at him in the mirror in Turkey. That's it? Recep Tayyip Erdogan, on October 22nd, our President came to Burma for a program, two and a half or three days ago, all the entrances and exits were held in Burma, life stopped, and that's the only way security was provided. It's not really a simple citizen of a country that has no security, not even being president is a good thing, my friends.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0219par0484	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0220par0485	The same is true in America. Life stops when the President goes to America.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0221par0486	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0222par0487	Friends, the purpose of terrorism is to invade the brain, the mind, the mind, the thought; the purpose of terrorism is to sabotage the communication between us, and I see it happening here. Such blind defense can't even be explained by the concept of beer, but it's explained by the concept of nervousness. You know, anything your child does that sounds good to you can only be explained by this. That's what the government does. Our previous Prime Minister had a famous saying: "We do value-oriented politics." But, I've seen today in the debates before me, we've moved from value-oriented politics to political values; we've started using whatever concept works for politics. If the negotiation, mothers don't cry, if the solution is working, we use it; no, it's changed tomorrow, if the struggle, the crushing, the defusing, we use it. A sign of hope for help from this camping and polarization is that this country's total mind-blowing coup on July 15th is a blessing, and then the extraordinary state of condition, which requires the constraint of freedoms in all Turkey, has been declared to our great nation three days earlier. This understanding, however, does not succeed in carrying out the security mission, which is truly the first function of the state, which thinks that limiting freedoms is good news for the nation. What's happening now, my friends, is that our cabinet members are looking at a single person, like the bank manager, who's been assigned to referee the heavyweight boxing competition, or they're acting like an 8-year-old boy who randomly hits the switches and changes the button according to the reaction he sees. The Minister of National Education has been able to state here that the solution process is still correct in talks on the entire budget or in the law on its own Ministry. When did this solution process begin, friends? The terror was almost over, while the interior minister of the period was able to visit the tradesman in Hakkari, with 7-8 bodyguards. And just like that, all of a sudden, this process of solutions started. You don't negotiate with a man who's armed to carry out his message, his request. The rate of success in such talks around the world is one out of six, one out of five, when negotiations begin. Without seeing this, the mistake that was made without understanding our legacy of living together has grown and made this threat unresolved today. When you negotiate, you'll know who's talking with a gun when you're dealing with one, and when you do, you don't have the right to be angry at other people. In this struggle, the government's general weakness has shown itself. Tanpınar (Tanpınar) is a novel by the Institute for Adjusting Hours. There, those who established the clock-setting institute, at the end of the job, when it closes, this time -- one of the heroes of the novel -- builds a liquidation board there and guarantees his salary until he retires. We now see that the government sees the money, the tender in every case. For example, we're walling Syria. Friends, do we have a number on the proportion of terrorist incidents that have been committed by transitioning from the Syrian border to Turkey in total terrorism? Instead of putting Syria's inhabitants in a simple notebook in 2013, we'll be able to identify them with biochips. We have to ask them if it's because it's not a wall to let them walk in and out. Why don't you take a look at our border-wide counties from the Iraqi border, where the biggest terrorist incidents are. Why isn't there such a precaution for that place? Similar things, you know, the chip project for every vehicle, the FATIH Project, and even if it helps to shed light until now, all the work in the city security management systems, which have been seen over and over and over again, which, in fact, had no use to predict the event. I'd like to give you a concrete example of this ruling mentality, a story that's been published in the newspapers today. It's an update on the institutional website of the Bursa Metropolitan Municipality. For the job of updating an institution's website, there are 690,000 liras in 2015, $3.5m per year, $7m per year in 2016 and 2017. You guys think about what happens when we divide it by the day, which is the budget of this city hall, except for 20 or 25 companies. I calculated that when I was running for mayor of the city, that the mayor's office would introduce itself; that, as we saw in Syria, Iraq, someone would make us smile in every building on every street, for better or for better. The price of their writing was 30 trillions a year. In fact, security today has become a serious problem for all states, the balance between freedom and security is abandoned, but one thing that remains constant is democratic security for the use of democratic freedoms. There are three basic conditions for that. First, it's transparency and communication, as it should be, a communication without 5t. An untapped communication environment, an untamed communication environment, an untamed communication environment, an unthreated communication environment, and an untamed communication environment. If you're not taking these precautions in this communications environment, then there's no chance you'll succeed. But in private Turkey, you have to add a 6th t, and add a communication environment where 6th t is standing in the Constitution and acting like one. Our second condition is the process of democratic decision-making and the control of these decisions based on the separation of forces. So we have to come up with an approach that is not restricting freedoms, but securing them, because the right to security now stands before us as a fundamental right that can be sued, and the state has lost its legitimacy, which has not been able to provide security since Hobbes. I started with Poet Ashraf, and I'll finish with him, but the bottom line is that the government can't rule Turkey. This shows itself when the problem with fulfilling the first function of a state is expressed by close to 50 per cent people as Turkey's most important problem, when the trust in the judiciary falls to 20 per cent. And finally, I say, friends, that with applause, the collapses are more than the collapses accompanied by criticism. I began with the poet Ashraf. I end with him. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He says: 'It's not gam. It's not the disposing of property.' My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit02spe0223par0502	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0223par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Muğla MP Mehmet Erdogan will speak. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0224par0009	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group on the budget of the National Movement Party on the budget of the Council of Public Order and Security, and on the budget of the Finnish Administration General Assembly. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation, watching over us on their screens. Today, again, is World Human Rights Day. I celebrate the Day of Human Rights of all mankind. I wish you the best of luck to the Crimean Turks, who are now condemning my auction in Crimea, which is occupied by Russia. I'd like to see your activities make a sound in the world. At the very beginning of my words, he has blessed our martyrs who gave their lives to protect the beloved Turkish nation and its Turkish homeland, which he knows honor, and I wish our fellow veterans a good life. On this occasion, I wish our heroic security forces, who are already fighting terrorism in and out of the country, well done, and I salute them with my regards. Also, I wish Mr. Home Secretary the best of luck with his new assignment, but he hasn't been here yet. You know, Mr. Secretary -- except for the elected ministers -- is the sixth interior minister of the AKP government. I think we're going to talk about the Ministry of Internal Affairs now, instead of the Ministry of National Education that's always been talked about. Dear MPs, on the night of July 15th, the state of the Republic of Turkey faced a treacherous invasion attempt that had never been seen before in its history. Alhamdulillah, the mighty Turkish nation did not accept this vile attempt with all its segments, and gave the harshest response. However, there are some things here that shouldn't be missed. I must point out that all of this is a clear indication that there is weakness in the administration of the state. The reasons for what happened on the night of July 15th stand aside for now. He used every opportunity he could to infiltrate the capillaries of the state. The state's genetics has been manipulated. Therefore, a patient, determined, and systematic struggle must be fought in the fight against ▪. In this context; 1) The political foot must be revealed, regardless of which political party he goes to, no matter who he touches. 2) Its financial resources must be drained to the roots, without compromise with the capital foot in the country and abroad. Of course, it was done in the top bureaucracy, as it was done in all levels of the state, and you and we both know it. It is imperative that the people involved in the high-level bureaucracy be discovered and purged from within the state. 4) However, all of this should be done in accordance with the law. Those who want to cast a shadow on the struggle of the Republic of Turkey should not be given the opportunity, the investigations should not be watered. As of July 16th, there should be no reason to allow the target to be misled by false reports to reach its goal. 5) In cases such as Ergenekon, Sledgehammer and Espionage yesterday, it is clear how much those who murdered the law today need the law. Therefore, in order not to make the legitimacy of the righteous struggle after the July 15 occupation attempt controversial, every task must be carried out in the framework of the law, without haste, with the state mind, decisive and constant. Dear lawmakers, of course, the Turkish nation has shown total terror in the events of that night. The political institution, the press organizations, our citizens, our patriotic soldiers in the heroic Turkish army, has done more than enough for the large audience. But in all of this, I'd like to talk a little bit about their heroics in the eastern and southeast of our country, despite the dozens of martyrs and veterans they've given us, the Department of Special Ops, whose heroics we've witnessed by cleaning up the remnants of the solution process in the region. If we take a closer look at what happened on the night of July 15th, I'd like to give you two examples of how professional the Police Department of Special Ops is. At around 11:00 p.m., bombs are being dropped on the head of the Lakehead Aeronautics Department, and at around 24 p.m., to the Office of Special Operations; unfortunately, at that moment, 50 of our heroes are killed, and that's when they get hurt. However, the 45 remaining private operatives continue to fight continuously until the coup attempt is completely suppressed. They continue their duties at the expense of their fellow martyrs and their wounded friends. Again, I'd like to report to you that the Special Ops units running the operation on the Gendarme General Command building in Fivetepe, which the coupists used as their headquarters, did not fire on any of the men who were not involved during the operation, but were used as shields. Again, it's also admirable that when they surrender the coupgers, they don't allow the Turkish army to crawl on the ground by removing their uniforms from all of them. Today, the number of these heroes is around 12,000. In addition to this issue, however, 10,000 special operations police have been ordered to be taken further directly. With the announcement of the purchase, the number of patriots and brave sons who have been fueled by the service of the beloved Turkish nation has been sought out. But the state has to think long-term. We have no doubt of the ability, courage and patriotism of 300,000 sons who have applied for this glorious mission, but to continue the professionalism of Special Ops; 1) I don't think the direct purchase of these 10,000 special ops is appropriate. 2) I think it would be appropriate for the special ops units to be re-established within the police force as they have been so far. Again, I think it's going to be difficult for these people to grow up as special ops with 10,000 people taken into Special Ops. 4) At the same time, the taking of 10,000 people together will improve the professionalism of Special Ops. One of our national education ministers once said, "I'm going to make all the high schools anadolized." But he turned all the anadole high schools into normal high schools, which is not like him. 5) Taking 10,000 at the same time will make it difficult to maintain the continuity of Special Forces. The fact that 10,000 people grow old and retire together puts us at risk for new weaknesses in the future. This will complicate the continuity of Special Ops. Because our past experiences show that our brothers and sisters who have left Special Ops are not happy in other units, so they are not useful. I think it would be more appropriate for these purchases to be held at least five times in two thousand-dollar parties. I'd also like to present here a matter that we'd like to make urgent about our heroes. These heroes of ours need to be driven by their rights, by their duty. Because Special Ops officers, like other public officials, go east and southeast for two or three years and never come back west again. They serve for the first time, for the second time, in the east and southeast, according to the need. At the same time, they remain in the east and southeast for months, as well, when they serve in the West. Mr. President, in this regard, we ask that our Special Ops brothers and sisters' rights be made in accordance with these conditions. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, of course, when we talk about their rights here, all of our police have problems with their rights. We've said that a lot in the past, and it's been in the National Movement Party's election statement, and we wanted the police to have an additional indicator of 3600. However, the government recently passed a bag of laws to 3,000, which reflected only 40-50 liras in the pensions of our police. If these 3600 additional indicators were given to our police, we wouldn't be talking about this today. This matter needs to be fixed immediately. In addition, many police involved in the events of the CHP have been suspended, discharged, and even arrested; it is true. Our country is in a much more intense period of counterterrorism after July 15th. For this reason, the workload of our law enforcement officers, whose numbers have gone down, has increased greatly. That would have wiped out all the workforce that wasn't already in the police force. Even if you can't make any other arrangements, at least give them overtime so that people can get some financial spiritual relief. Mr. Secretary, another line of professions, whose voices are not heard and ignored, are veteran gendarmes and experts. We've been talking about the problems of our veteran gendarmes over and over again. These brothers and sisters serve under difficult circumstances. However, the training of officers and petty officers in other military units is considered service, but their training is not considered service. The solution to their problems is obvious. If they're given financial and social rights, like other friends they've done the same job, then the problems of the veteran gendarmes will be solved. A permanent solution to the employment problem of specialists and expert gendarmes, whose contract ended, because these people have been serving for years under difficult conditions, but when their contract ends, what are we going to do after that? They are desperate to go around looking for work. That's not a fair thing to do either. An immediate, permanent, and satisfying solution is essential. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as you know, our young graduates from police schools with an internal security package have been given a new post-graduate exam, a new interview condition. This is what the current conjunctive requires. You can say, "There are serious sacrifices in this area, and they have serious demands for us." About 1,800 of our teenagers who finished police school in 2015 were not able to pass the interview after graduation, so they couldn't be a cop. The reason why they can't be a police officer is because the fact that they haven't been able to pass this second interview is because of their assessment that they have contact with the PDY. I'm going to try to explain to you an example that this structure has also taken over these interviews. We have a brother. Our brother's name is here, it's in his file. I don't want to give it to you. But in a moment, when I'm done speaking, I'll pass along a sample of the file to Mr. Secretary. This brother followed up the injustice that had been done to him. He collected all his findings, brought them to us. And I will present it to you in a file. Now, look, Mr. Secretary, this brother took the police test in 2004, he didn't win, and the parallel structure didn't win it that day; in 2005, he didn't win it in 2006. He went into the army, came in, took the exam in 2012, took it in 2013, didn't win again. He won the exam in 2014. The year 2015, of course, this policeman was again eliminated after finishing his university of applied sciences, and he was not a cop again. However, many who later took part in the training of this, sir, took part in the examination were discharged after July 15th. So they didn't stay parallel, they stopped these kids from becoming cops before July 15th. We demand that these 1,800 people be reassessed in this sense by the intelligence institutions and the Security General Directorate, with a new test, to eliminate the victims of those who were not involved in the parallel structure. Mr. President, good lawmakers, when we say Immigration Administration General Directorate, we think of refugees coming directly from Syria. Instead of preparing them for Turkish citizenship, the Finnish Immigration Administration should keep them to turn back when the turmoil in Syria is over. Turkey's policy should also be to end the turmoil in Syria, which will go from Turkey in the long term. Mr. Secretary, the esteemed MPs, we have an institution called the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security. You know, there's also a process that has cost us thousands of martyrs, which has resulted in the return of a part of our country to the battlefield. And this process, although we've already warned it over and over again, was then insisted on implementing the process of betrayal called the solution process. Today the process is over, including the top officials in the government. But it seems that the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security no longer realizes that there is no such thing as a process of resolution. The official website still mentions the process of resolving, which is marketed under the name of the brotherhood project. Given the history and duties of the Undersecretary on the website, it is impossible not to ask some questions. 1) Is the Commission for Interagency Surveillance and Co-ordination still present, including the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security? If so, why, as the Prime Minister repeatedly stated, is there still a commission, the board of a process that does not exist? 2) According to information on the website, who are the members of this ongoing board and commission, and what do they do? 3) Where were the members of the Anti-Terror Co-ordination Council when thousands of our soldiers were martyrs? 4) Where were hundreds of our citizens when they were killed by bombs from all over the country? 5) The fact that the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security -- on the Internet -- has never given up hope of this so-called solution process, which will never be revealed again -- can lead to serious weaknesses in the fight against terrorism. I'd like to say that it would be appropriate to shut down the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, who so far have shown no presence in the fight against terrorism, nor have any active roles. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I approach the end of my statement, I'd like to draw your attention to a few more issues. One is that, as you know, our country deals simultaneously with many terrorist organizations, particularly the PKK, the PKK, the NYD, the YPG, ISIS and the DHKP-C. As you know, there is a state of emergency across the country. And we, the National Movement Party, have supported this extraordinary process. What we expect from here is that the fight against terrorism is total and that in this extraordinary period of time, all of the resources of the state are spent on certain points and not lost time. As we have fought PKK, DHKP-C and so on in the east and southeast of Turkey, we need to eliminate structures such as PKK, DHKP-C and so on and so on and so on and so on, and with its extraordinary state lifted, Turkey must no longer speak of terrorism again. Our people in our country today have problems, Turkey has a real agenda. The most important thing on the agenda, of course, is work shortages, food shortages. From now on, it's not about terrorism, it's about the environment to talk about it. Mr. Secretary, you've just begun your mission, but it's been mentioned recently that the government is preparing some arrangements to change the structure of property management. We have reason to believe, Mr. Secretary, that by taking the subsidiary class, some of your allies will be allowed to be appointed as a trustee, regardless of their driver's license and merit. It means playing with the foundations of the state. I advise you not to discuss such an issue that would undermine the Turkish administration system fundamentally. For years, the management of the property has successfully carried out the government's representation of the Turkish nation in the country, its unity, veracity and central government. If some separatists don't get what they want today, everyone can take credit for it, but the biggest share here is the management's. In this regard, as a property manager, I would advise that these matters should not be discussed at all, but by the way, I would also like to remind you that the rights of property managers should be made in line with their duties and functions. The salary of the property management has been one-fifty on the salaries of the judges they served together in the country. It's time for this freak to be eliminated. The last thing I want to say is that the fight against terror is a hard thing, not to break the law. I'm very familiar with the challenges. Of course, by the way the government works, some things can be slow. There's no need to rush, there's no need to panic. Everything that's done needs to be done within the rules. Our experience today shows that whoever murdered the law in the past, who ignored the law, today has become very dependent on the law that he murdered. In that respect, everything we do has to be in law. Today, those who practice law must patiently, calmly, with the state mind, decisively and consistently fight every structure that refers to the union of the Turkish nation, the unity of the Turkish nation. In the meantime, the necessary measures to avoid opening spaces to new parallels at a time when we are working hard to combat a parallel structure should be taken, with sufficient sensitivity. With such feelings and thoughts, I salute your grand delegation and our beloved citizens who are watching us at the beginning of the screens with respect and respect, and I pray to God that the 2017 budget is a blessing.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0225par0047	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP Erkan Haberal will speak third. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0226par0051	Mr. President, I'm here to announce the National Defence Ministry budget of the National Movement Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the total number of martyrs since July 20th is 946. We've killed 19 people in Operation Firat Shield. During the July 15 coup attempt, we have 248 martyrs, including soldiers, police, civilians. I wish them all the blessings of each and every one of our beloved martyrs. We're happy with them and they're happy with us. The Turkish army, founded by Mete Han in 209 B.C., formed by the Turkish army in 209 B.C., trembled the world at Attilan, built the Alparslan Anatolian as a Turkish home, horseed in Europe, became a tyrant, opposed seven heifers who became Mustafa Kemal. I say hello to our hero Mehmetchik, the hero of the Special Ops, who we believe will forever wave the glorious Turkish flag with the power and authority of the nation, who will not leave us without a country, without a thousand years of brotherhood, who will not leave us without a flag, who will not leave us alone, who will not leave our country without a thousand years of brotherhood. Members of parliament, Turkey is going through a dark period in which domestic and external security problems are getting heavy every day, when the negative effects of major developments in neighbouring countries have taken on our national security, and the circle of hostility around us is getting narrower and narrower. The geography we are involved in is a troubled geography where the hostilitys are fueled on the basis of ethnic and religious divisions, where civil wars are waged, the blood terror organizations run horses, the country's territorial integrity is torn apart, the political structures are torn down, the dynamics of dissolution, division and conflict are activated, and in every area instability prevails. Developments in Iraq and Syria, two borderline neighbours with civil war conditions, have left Turkey in grave danger of national security. The picture we're looking at today is alarming in every way. Today, Turkey was taken into a terror spiral. Three of the bloodiest terrorist groups in history are under the multi-directional attack by PKK/PYD-İSİD and ا. The PKK's terrorist attacks have escalated. ISIS has gained the potential to commit terrorism within Turkey. The state and society have surrounded our lives like an evil cancer. There's a relentless struggle going on inside and out against these three angels. In the face of Turkey's presence and its future threats and dangers, it is seen as a national obligation to act with the awareness that Turkey is facing a beka problem. Dear lawmakers, the dangers, threats and risks posed for Turkey's national security of Iraq and Syria must be considered under the following three main topics: the first is the origin of Iraq and Syria. Second, these are the new political formations that oppose Turkey on the territory of the two neighbouring countries. The third is the existence and future of our Turkishmen brothers in Iraq and Syria. To address Iraq first, the PKK's terrorist organisation continues to use northern Iraq as an attack base against Turkey. Thanks to Barzani, the PKK is free of charge in northern Iraq. The terrorist group, which was not satisfied with this, began spreading its presence in Iraq out of Barzani's territory. First he settled in Sincar, west of Musul, on the border with Iraq and Syria, and also tried to infiltrate the Turkmen settlements in Kerkok, Mosul and around it. He's here, opening outposts, waving his rags. The Sincar region, unfortunately, is on its way to becoming the second Kandil. Iraqi Turkmen, Kerkuk, Musul, Telafer and Tuzhurmatu have become vulnerable to PKK threats. As well as the Iraqi Central Government and Shii militia are assisting the terrorist organization in expanding the PKK terror base. Barzani is a serious threat to security and stability in the region as much as Turkey is to the process of establishing an independent Kurdish state in northern Iraq. The ultimate goal of Barzani is the large four-part Kurdistan, which will include Iraq, Syria, Iran and Turkey. The first step will be taken in Iraq, then in the north of Syria, where PKK's tongs will come to the autonomous region of TYD (PYD) and then to the southeast of the unstable Turkey. That's their goal, that's their plan, that's their road map. Everyone must see this truth now, and understand the true intentions of Barzani. Barzani has not only stepped forward on the path of the independent state, but has expanded the borders of the autonomous region in the north since 2003 with systematic efforts. As we arrived today, the Barzani region, 40,000 square kilometers according to the Iraqi Constitution, has increased to 71,000 square kilometers. I repeat: According to the Iraqi Constitution, the Barzani region has increased to 11,000 square kilometers. First, Kerkuk has taken over, this historical city of Turkmen has changed its population structure, and the Kurdish population from outside has settled here. To tell you the truth, Kerkuk has seized him by force. Not only that, it also included some of the districts of Mosul (Musul) in the Kurdish region. His goal now is to divide the city in half after Mosul has been cleared of ISIS, and to take the part of Mosul to the east of the Tigris River into the Kurdish region. Barzani's unchanging strategic goal is to establish the independent Kurdish state of Iraq, where Kerkuk will become the capital. For this, he expects the political conjunctive to be formed with all its elements. It should be a warning for everyone, especially the Republic of Turkey, last week, when Barzani's spokesman announced that official talks with the Iraqi Central Government on the establishment of an independent state began. With these facts out in the open, Turkey's view of Barzani (Iraq) as the only legitimate challenge, unfortunately encouraged the chief of the heist to take steps towards the evil ambitions. The media reported that the government welcomed Barzani's request to open official representation in Turkey, which made the Turkish nation very upset. Iraqi Turkmen today are fighting for their lives in despair and despair. In addition to Barzani, the defenceless Turks are under pressure, persecution, and threat from Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), pro-Islamic Shia militias and ISIS. The government of Baghdad ignores the Turkmen. They were driven from their homes, oppressed, and killed. They don't have a safe zone. There are no organized defence forces. Turkishmen's geography has been shattered, their ties to Turkey have been severed. The Sunni-Sii division among the Turks has deepened and has increased the risk of conflict among them. The national presence, national identity and security of the Turks who were left alone, abandoned to their own destinies is a deadly threat. Their only guarantee is Turkey and the great Turkish nation, but unfortunately, Turkey does not have a consistent, effective and comprehensive Turkmen policy. In Iraq, this devastating development also appears to be Turkey's desire to be excluded from the political-military equation in this neighbouring country. Turkey's relations with the Baghdad government have come to a standstill. Iran has significantly increased its influence in the region. The Mosul operation and the Basika camp crises have been indicators of the front against Turkey. Turkey is an outcast from the Mosul operation. The main crisis has been left to cool for now, but the problem has not been resolved permanently. After the removal of Mosul and the mujavir regions from ISIS, sectal conflicts are a serious risk. The most damaged will be our brothers, Musul, Telafer and Tuzhurmatu, under the threat of the Shiite militia. The decision of the Iraqi government to accept the pro-Iran Hashdi Shabi militia as an official part of the Iraqi Armed Forces is a factor that raises concerns. Turkey's concerns and sensibilities on this issue are mainly collected at these points: the failure of the Musul demographic structure to change; preventing Shii militias from being massacred against the Sunnis; preventing the conflict of sects from Mosul (Musul) to the west; especially the creation of a Shiite belt in the Iraqi population to the Syrian border; the formation of a Shii belt, corridor by the Turkish community; preventing the PKK from expanding its influence from the western Sincar The actual situation in the field today is seen as far away from those goals, based on the political-military equation. Dear MPs, Turkey's Syrian policy has made serious assessment errors following the start of civil war. These mistakes made with the masses returned to Turkey as terrorism, returned as domestic and external security problems, returned as a flood of refugees, returned as an image and loss of reputation in the international community, returned as new elements of tension in Turkey's relations with Western countries and Russia and returned as internal divisions and polarisation. Turkey has paid very, very heavy prices. At the point of arrival today, developments in Syria are also following an alarming course. ISIS and PKK terror threats stemming from Syria are a serious national security issue for Turkey. The PKK, unfortunately, has settled south of our Syrian border after northern Iraq. The Syrian arm of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has opened its second front of attack on Turkey with three cantons in the border area of the PSD/YPG. I'm afraid the terrorist organization has not given up its goal to unite these cantons and form an uninterrupted corridor of terror. These three cantons will be transformed into a Syrian independent Kurdish state, that's the plan. The PKK and the NYD have become US strategic partners and ground forces against ISIS in Syria. The United States does not consider the PYD a terrorist organization. Western countries, primarily the United States, continue to provide weapons and logistics support for the PYD. The PKK and the PYD have taken a serious distance towards gaining international legitimacy in this way. Here's an anecdote, and I'll put in a joke: you're on a basic plane, you're on a plane, you're on an English, German, French, American, Russian, what, brother, every joke. Now, even though these British, Americans, representatives of the European Union, and Russians, unfortunately, are no joke, in real life, we can always see them together whenever we want to put dynamite under Turkey, in Syria and Iraq today. Turkey's Free Syrian Army has launched the Firat Shield Military Operations, and ISIS has been removed from our border zone, but the military operation has not yet reached its final goal. The operation appears to be blocked in the direction of El Bab. The main reason for this is that America remains distant from this operation, Russia is reluctant to support the operation in the air, and Turkey's action is seen to be toppled by Bashar Assad. After this barrier has been overcome and the removal of Al Bab (El Bab) from ISIS, Cerablus, El Bab, Azez, Mare will be able to create 5,000 square kilometers of terror-free zone and prevent the PYD (PYD) from combining three cantons from the south. Turkey's primary goal from now on will be to make sure that the PYD (PYD) is to withdraw to the east of Fırat. Menbic will also need to be cleansed of the PYD. I'd like to point out that I'm a prayer for the success of our heroic soldiers who fought terror again on Syrian soil and killed 19 of them. May God have mercy on our beloved martyrs over and over again. Blessed be my Lord, above them all. Syrian Turkmen are at the top of the most damaged from the Syrian civil war. Our Turkmen brothers are trapped in a triple-fire clamp. Syrian regime forces are fighting for their lives under the attacks of ISIS and PKK-PYD terrorists. Assad forces, supported by Iranian and Hezbollah militias, are shooting Turkmen from land and air. Turkmen are also targeted by Russian air elements. The goal here is to rid the Turkmen of the Aleppo, Damascus, Lazkiye line, starting south of Turkey's borders. Turkmen living in the three cantons declared by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) have also been expelled from their homes. The demographic structure of the region has been forced to change, killings that have reached the ethnic level of cleansing against Turkmen. ISIS also massacred Turkmen in their occupied areas. The Syrian Turkmen have been abandoned to their fate. Turkey wasn't there for them, unfortunately, to the extent necessary. Today, the Aleppo, Hama, Hummus, Lazkiye and Bayır Bucak Turkmen are in final resistance to survive. Turkey must demonstrate that Turkishmen are not alone with all its resources. A new political architecture will be created in Syria after the civil war. In this context, the vital issues for Turkey are the lack of autonomous PKK territory in northern Syria, and the constitutional guarantee of Turkishmen's rights and laws. The protection of Syrian territorial integrity is vital to Turkey's regional peace and stability. Although Syria seems to have no way of returning to unitary political structures, at least every effort must be made to ensure that the country does not fall apart. It is important that political architecture in Syria does not form on a loose, slippery floor that will eventually become independent states. In this scope, Turkey must use every means to prevent Syrian Turkmen from being excluded from the new political architecture and abandoned at the mercy of other ethnic groups. Turkmen will not be considered second-rate minorities. To ensure the security of Turkmen in the new political architecture and ensure full and equal use of constitutional rights should be the primary goal of Turkey's Republic of Turkey. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have shown that Turkey has passed through a ring of fire, as we have made progress in our recent geography and a tour of the horizon for the situation. Turkey will not be expected to remain silent and unresponsive in the face of such developments. It is now a national obligation to take every preventive, deterrent and compelling precaution necessary for our national security and implement an effective strategy. This strategy has to have three basic legs. Iraq and Syria must be our top priority in creating a security threat to Turkey. Turkey must fully exercise its rights from international law to purge terrorist elements nesting beyond our borders. In the same way, it is vital to prevent hostile terrorist formations in our Iraq and Syrian border region. Our determination to take every precaution against such formations targeting the territorial integrity and national unity of Turkey must be established without any doubt. The third dimension of this strategy is the creation of an effective Turkmen policy to protect the national assets of the Turks in Iraq and Syria, their national identities, their political rights and laws. Turkey must establish a comprehensive Turkishman policy with legal, political, economic, cultural, humanitarian aid and military dimensions to protect the rights, laws, and existence of the Iraqi and Syrian Turkmen. The steps must be taken to implement this programme as far as the current conditions allow. Turkey's implementation of a comprehensive deterrent strategy, including the use of actual military force and effective sanctions for these purposes, has become a problem. The National Movement Party will be at its side and behind the government's strategy and measures on this issue. I salute your grand delegation in the hope that our National Ministry of Defense budget will prosper.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0227par0076	Thank you, Mr. Haberal. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın will speak last. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0228par0080	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I present to you on behalf of the National Party for Action on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. I salute you all. Members of parliament, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, which previously served with the authorities under the name of two different ministries, has been combined with a decision adopted on January 1, 1982. On 24 November 1989, the 2 ministries were relocated under the name of the Ministrys of Culture and Tourism under the provisions of Law 354 and 355, but were reunited by the release of the Official Gazette No. 29 April 2003 and 25093. On this occasion, I am very grateful for Talat Sait Halman Hodja, who was first a major contributor to Turkish culture life, which we lost on December 5, 2014, because, indeed, he has very original, very beautiful works that carry Turkish culture to Western Europe and Western culture to Turkey. One or two of them, particularly Jonah Emre and Mazlana, who carried their poems, their Rubais, to the West, except for their own original work -- have contributed from many Western classics, including Shakespeare, to our Turkish literature, to our culture. God rest his soul. In fact, the fact that it can operate better under different ministries, unfortunately, with the combination of culture and tourism as it is today, we still think it's easy for them to pass through a number of areas associated with each other. How can we say that? Because, as tourism is now defined, especially when we emphasize its species, we see that culture tourism is really a very important place too. In this respect, if a good joint is done, we can really talk about a different and appropriate Ministry of Culture and Tourism activity. Members of parliament are a material and spiritual entity in the creation of human beings, which means that a person can both design and reason with his mind and contribute to science and technology and produce very immortal works of emotion and emotion, and there's always a connection between the heart and the brain. When you set this balance well, it's really a perfect being, and what it produces is very good. Why am I saying this? Art, literature, culture should not only be removed from concrete science and technology and some structures that are the product of this technology. That's how you have to see the whole nature of a human being with movement. So, when we think about it like this, we see that Mustafa Kemal's word, which means that one of the life vessels of nations without art has been severed. I'd like to make that very clear. So, really, in an ancient geography, in our 2,000-year-old state tradition, we have a cultural texture that we pass down from generation to generation. Take from local to national, from national to universal, the most permanent foot is the cultural foot that sustains nations, strengthens the union, even establishes ties with other nations. Thus, the assessment and protection of our cultural riches and transference from generation to generation will contribute to the preservation of intergenerational cultural tissue, as well as to the most permanent attraction of the tourism industry. Congressmans, when we present a general picture of Turkey today in the context of culture and tourism, I'm afraid we can see very clearly that it is not where it deserves to be. Today, the historical and cultural values of our country, which has hosted countless civilizations and has been the seal of Turkish-Islam civilization for the last thousand years, are a great deal of indifference and neglect. But let's not forget that the concrete documents of a nation's existence are not only deeds, records, population records, but historical artifacts, especially the mausoleum here. Here, our cultural deeds, our historical texture, are wasted on a pragmatist and non-human approach with the slogan "Winner Win." Among the most important evidence of this, we can show that historic, beautiful image of Istanbul, which was sacrificed to the zoning event. What happened? As we look at it today, God forbid, Istanbul, which has been sacrificed to a multi-winning zoning sense, is sadly endangering its historical heritage. That's what the mouth of authority says over and over again. It's not just supposed to be a silhouette, but God forbid, because of the noise and the pollution of the image, maybe we'll have a hard time wearing these artifacts down and passing them on to the next generation. Now, sir, I'd like to give you another very typical example of this from the knowledge that I'm a representative of: Erzurum is really a crossroads in history; in the time we have from East Rome, Byzantines, Seljucans, Ottomans, and in the end, historical documents are a high, historical monuments, but, unfortunately, we have a hard time maintaining the structure of our Erzurum, both three-dimensional, Seljumite and Ottomanian, both bearing witness to the history of the Republic. Why? Let me give you a simple example: Look, historians know the concept of tatabiah, which is a defense mechanism of Erzurum, especially in the 19th century, which is often used in wars, because it's the logic of the plate, it's built up with soil, and there's 21 in Erzurum. Because, Erzurum is a city that has been invaded by tears, especially during what our ancestors called the 993 War, 1876-1877 Ottoman-Russian War, where great occupations and great tragedies have been experienced. Unfortunately, we, sir, have brought the jump towers for the 2011 World College Winter Games that we bought in 2009 for a sporting event, in the center of the city, destroying what we call the historical identity of the city, and began building a jumping tower there. Now, by the nature of the plate, because it was a pile of soil, it couldn't carry millions of tons of concrete, and believe me, these jump towers built with millions of dollars were destroyed a few years later. He's been retried, and they insisted we do it there. They said. Now, I wonder if those who exercise that authority that day really have a clear conscience. They've done it again, and it's the main intersection of the city. I mean, if the jump thing was a little abnormal, it would fall into the middle of the city, into traffic. We insisted on saying: "Look, this is a plate, it has a history, it has a century, it has a history of two centuries; let's do it elsewhere, not here; let's make it green, let's light it up, let's have a historical legacy that we can pass on to our children from generation to generation." But, unfortunately, we couldn't do that. It's a very important story that hurts our hearts. On the other hand, I'd like to express a few flaws in a number of institutions that are actually on the agenda of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. When we look at these, sir, our mobile libraries are multiplying. Yes, we thank you, it's a really good event, because we can't contribute to the development of this country unless we catch the reading generation. We have to read to the European averages, so here's a friend of ours, who's told us about the PISA results, and really, we're going to talk about these results, and we're going to take the hat off, and we're going to think about it a lot, and we're going to make some serious decisions. These mobile libraries are a very good project, but, Mr. Secretary, we're getting reports that there have been some setbacks in some provinces, especially in the lack of experts, including the driver. Another problem is that we want cultural calibration to be reprinted in a simple way, without being wasteful, as well as destroyed artifacts. Really, sometimes like this, we can't pinpoint our direction at the ulterior default point. Now, in the past, when we were young, we had a very beautiful classic in our youth, both the Western works and our own work of 1,100 basic works, 101 basic works, or classics, and we would go and buy those books with our allowances. It was simple, but it was big books. So as I mentioned earlier, it's like that messy book Ali Empire has, but it means, it means, it's worth a lot. Let's not waste it. Let's not waste it. What are we doing? We're printing a book within the Ministry of Culture -- a couch or a classic -- a print that's so gilded, heavy, it's hard to carry, so we can't even open it up and get it out of the cover, so it's so spectacularly printed. Please, let's keep it simple here, let's do it right. What's the point here? How many masses, how many people, how many precious books, how many cultural values can we convey? I think that's the target. I think it's good to do it, but if it is, it's good to replicate it. Sir, another important problem is that some classics are being translated within the Ministry, and we even see the same flaws in the introduction brochures of some institutions. The translations are so broken, so wrong. On the one hand, when we're trying to express ourselves, to introduce ourselves, while we're working, we're trying to move our culture, our values, we're misconstrued. Believe me, if you want a concrete example, we have the Dolphin Emre Foundation; I remember, during a trip abroad, I opened a catalog of Turkish-English, which was painful. His English and English were so far apart, I was sorry to hear that. Therefore, I think it's in the best interest of experts to do so by being given the job to the best of them. Sir, another important problem is that the Turkish Writers' Office's Law was issued six years ago, but three district directors were assigned: Istanbul, Konya and Ankara. Now, I'm going to go on the website of the Ministry, the Konya, the Istanbul branch manager's office, the district manager's address in Istanbul, even Istanbul, even 2 addresses, but there's no address for the Ankara Regional Directorate. Next thing we know, the district director's office in Ankara hasn't been operational yet, and there's no address, and it's temporarily forwarded to Istanbul. This has to be done quickly. Really, it's a big flaw. With these, the writing in the museums, yes, I think it's on the schedule, but let's speed it up, and let's get these writing done under the presidential roof as soon as possible. Otherwise, a lot of people are in a position to prevent a very urgent, very important work of the day. Sir, another important problem, another interesting thing: this Congress has been bombed, we've been through a lot of trouble, but we're still in business, thank God. I mean, part of us is dust, part of us is still active. As I cross this corridor, I really think that sometimes I pass through the glaciers, and sometimes I think I pass the equator, so we're working on these conditions, but I'm looking at the Writing Artists portal online, and there's a note that says, "We're out of service for a while to give you better service." I checked again this morning so I wouldn't be embarrassed. Oh, for God's sake, can that happen? I mean, I just got the numbers. I think the portal of such a serious Ministry should be taken care of and presented to the services of scientists in one night, even when 500 grand is being assigned to a municipality's website. Sir, on the other hand, we're saying these things, but we're looking at the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and I'm looking at the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism; we're high; we're high; we're high; we're high, we're rich, we're rich, we've made the biggest contribution to education, but the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism is not one percent of the overall budget, but it's half a budget of 0.55 per cent, and with the merger of the two major ministries, I'm looking at a huge service network -- the vision, the mission -- the ministry's budget of a very important service mission -- is ear to a camel. And believe me, the current budget is 75 percent, the investments are only about 25 percent. God help you. So, what are you going to do with the 25 percent investment budget, what are we going to do? I mean, I wonder what kind of cultural event we're going to be able to cure at the point of detecting a 5,000-year-old presence that has emerged from the Grizzly Excavations. Congressmans, we need to have a national culture that starts in the local area, and then we need to have a rich culture that moves into an international dimension, but of course, we have to do it very well with the tourist foot. Yes, and the tourist foot is very important. How do we do that? We're going to do it by keeping track of these values. Believe me, our beaches, our hotels, our luxury transportation, that may not be the cause of tourism over time, but something will be permanent, our cultural heritage, our cultural values are always the center of attraction for people, and our assets will always be the basis for tourism. And when I say that, I also want to talk about tourism with a few things. Really, last year was a dark year for tourism, because you all know that investment feet, incentives, the quality of hotels, the beauty of places, not transportation, but tourism, just as we did in 2016, is one of the most affected and associated with inner peace of the country. The tourist first makes sure there's no security issues in the country he's in. Unfortunately, we, you know, lost over 200 people in Ankara with just three bombs that went off in a few months. Now, it's not that important to expect tourists in such a process. I mean, internal security needs to be pretty good, and this terror thing needs to be dealt with fast. First our own safety, then the safety of our foreign guests to host. Plus, a second important factor is that of course we are one of the countries in the world. Look, we shouldn't be making foreign policy attempts to overstep our bounds to exploit and insult like this, because you know what this is? You're making friends as individuals, but this affects individuals indirectly when it becomes a conflict between the country's policies. What's the most concrete evidence of this? Our southern provinces know very well that our tourist provinces are heavily home to German and Russian tourists, but when we look at the numbers in 2016, we have over 80 percent loss. It's a shame, it's a sin, it's a national fortune, so it's a very important foot. Besides, we really need a beating, which is very current these days. It's tourism, which is the most important foot that the exchange comes directly from, but we're not going to shoot ourselves in the foot. So let's take a healthy step in maintaining balance in domestic and foreign politics, so that this sector doesn't get too affected, it's one of the few good sectors we have left. Sir, because this industry, alone, is not just a industry where tourists come and eat, drink, and relax, and leave money; it has a lot of multidimensional, interconnected sectors. In our tourist region, agriculture is affected by this, and animalism is affected by this, and believe me, the tradesman is affected by that, and the industrialist is affected by that. Thus, we need to protect a sector with such factors very carefully. Sir, on the other hand, what should we do? We've been complaining a lot. I'm telling you from here, like friends, that disrespectful treatment of our President. The behavior of the German authorities is not acceptable.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0229par0103	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0228par0104	But, this isn't the first time. Look, we've got to talk about ourselves. We've got to get our promotional budgets in order and make them healthy. An orientist has a very beautiful expression that says: "You'll have one decent film, one documentary, and we'll have a bigger impact on it." Unfortunately, we're very short on it. Look, a film called Pearl Harbor was made in America, a military film, a film that actually means defeat, but they made a heroic story of defeat, and they made a promotion cocktail over the 6th fleet, which cost $300,000. Which one should I count? We never know our mythological figures. If we ask our children if they have a Turkish heroine character, no one knows her, but she knows Xena very well. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He doesn't know about Ergenekon, but unfortunately, from Spider-Man to superman, ant-man, bug-man, he knows all about it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0230par0111	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Now, we're going to hear the talks on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. First, Bart's MP Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya will speak. Here you go, Mr. Yalcinkaya. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0231par0117	Mr. President, I have been promised to share our party group's opinions and proposals on the Ministry of Interior budget. I salute the High Council. Before I begin my speech, I wish all our saintly martyrs who have laid down their lives for the unbreakable integrity of our country God's mercy, urgent healings to our veterans, all the heroic security forces who have served day and night for the peace and security of our country. Dear friends, today is Human Rights Day. I congratulate you on the Day of Human Rights, a Turkey where people live freely, honorably, fairly and equally. Dearly beloved lawmakers, as a country today, we are going through the most difficult, uncertain, lonely, insecure, darkest, and most difficult period in our republic's history. There's major damage to democracy, freedom, justice, security and intelligence, our economy is alerting, our structural problems are getting deeper and deeper every day. In the last 15 years, when the AKP alone is in power, our country and our people pay heavy price for the wrong, inconsistencies, inconsistencies, and inconsistencies that have been implemented inside and out. The AKP government revived terror that reached zero in 2002. Terrorists have been killed, and they've been re-flagged. As if the PKK in charge of Turkey was not enough, ISIS, ا, and many terrorist organizations that we don't even know their name have been put in trouble for our country. Turkey has become the most target of terrorist organisations in the world. The countless mistakes of power in both domestic and foreign policy have made Turkey a typical country of fear in the Middle East. What will become of this country, citizens, neighbors outside? He expressed his concerns, concerns, and concerns. People are afraid, and they are right to be afraid because the safety of the country and the people is now up to God. I'm not just saying this, but recently Culture Minister Mr. Nabi Avcı said: I'm in trouble, I'm waiting for a prayer. There was a similar explanation by Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek. A few days ago, he was having the most difficult time since World War I. Who put our country through the most difficult days since World War I, and what policies caused this? Why has our country become a country that needs prayer? Dear friends, put your hat in front of you and think: What have we said, what have we done, and what have we done, and how have we come to this point, and how have the stones of our journey been laid out by whom? You need to do this realistic accounting now. Mr. Secretary, I'm afraid in the past 15 years you've been involved in saving the day in the fight against terrorism, you haven't been able to demonstrate a bold and decisive course of action. Your attitude has led to great weaknesses in the fight against terrorism, and our country has lost. You've given our citizens a concept of terror under different names, hoping that something new is always being done, that it's always going to be done, but where we come from, nothing has changed, things have gotten worse. Terror has reached an uncontrollable point today. In the last year alone, the number of martyrs we have inflicted on terror has come close to a thousand, hundreds of civilians have lost their lives and hundreds have been injured with bombs that have exploded in the cities. Every single citizen we've lost has your wrong policies, your responsibility, the plague. At the end of every step you've taken for political tax and ambition, saying only I know, we have faced a new disaster as a country. The stoves continue to go out today. We're suffering with no description in every martyr story that comes in. The cries of the martyr parents do not go out of our ears. The images of the children, the wives, wrapped in his father's coffin, crying behind his back, make us all very angry. Our people know exactly who's responsible for all this, but enough is enough. Dear friends have opened the door to political reconciliation, which has given our July 15th history an important feature. If we can move forward with this culture of compromise, we can leave our children with a much nicer Turkey. In that case, we have a historical responsibility. From now on, we have to do something other than attend martyr funerals, grieve, express our condolences. In the heart of Turkey, we must take initiative as a solution centre in our Veteran Assembly. The Republican People's Party is ready for this; we are ready to support the end of the terror, we are ready to step forward, we are ready to lay our hands on the stone. (CHEERING) As long as you're sincere and sincere. Turkey has the capacity to overcome this process with reason, dignity, historical build-up, state culture. Minister of the Interior Minister, Mr. Efkan Ala is a member of the police department of the province before you. he said. Again, you, including the Police and the Gendarme, have announced that 21.929 personnel from your Ministry have been discharged. Just two days ago, on your visit to Van, you said again that 400 property managers had been deposed. The picture of what your power has done to our country is much clearer when we overlay your statements and the statements of Mr. Ala. Mr. Secretary, remember that the concept of state office is a national duty, which is extremely important for the survival and future of our state. July 15th has shown us this fact once again. Over the years, cults, which your power has filled with state institutions, have tried to take over our state. The power struggle you've created has led to a coup attempt in our country. Minister, I'm asking you now: how did Turkey end up on July 15th? Who laid the stones on this road, how? Who made these mistakes? Who brokered the appointment of these people to state institutions, and who referred them? Who signed the appointment decrees? Get on the stand and give the people the answers to these questions. (PEOPLE APPLAUSE) Give these people the assurance that these mistakes, these mistakes, will ruin the future of our country, will never be made again. For God's sake, learn from all this, make no mistake, make no mistake, so that our children don't die, our republic and our state's institutions don't be destroyed, our state's back, our people look to the future with confidence and hope. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0232par0129	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Hussein Yıldız will speak secondly. Here you go, Mr. Star. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0233par0134	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As it is known, the Interior Ministry is an important ministry in charge of our social security with public administration governors, trustees and police chiefs. It is important that the Ministry of Interior intervenes fair, equal and impartially with all citizens. Dear friends, however, the events following July 15th clearly show that both the governor and the trustees of property management services and the Security General Directorate have been handed over by the AKP to the terrorist organisation. The former interior minister, Mr. Efkan Ala 81, admitted it himself that 74 of the district police commissioners of the time were members of the state. Dear MPs, did the Republican People's Party or the HDP or the MP appoint these 74 district police chiefs? For years, since 2002, who has placed this terrorist organization in all institutions? Who's been running this country for 14 years? You have to answer for him, dear friends. Of course, before coming here, when I was discussing the Ministry of Interior budget, I received an e-mail from about 100-150 people, to the Minister of Interior, to the Governor of the Province of 1981, and how many of the 81 district chiefs are Alevi? How many are women? Ask them. They said, "Please, I ask you to answer this question. Dear friends, the Ministry of Interior is also the ministry in charge of local governments. I mean, the local government's law comes from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. You know, they immediately issued the entire Metropolitan City Law in 2013. As we pass this law... there's a city law all prepared in a hurry to ensure that only Melih Gökçek will win the election in Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, dear friends. Now, I'm asking you from here, Mr. Home Office: there have been 30 cities all over the city. For example, I'll give you an example from Aydın: County private administrations are closed, their personnel are all transferred to city municipalities, but their properties, resources, machine parks, none of them have been transferred to city municipalities. Do you know who it was only handed over to? They were only given in places where the capital city municipality of the AKP was located. Neither was the MPP given to CHP, nor was it given to HDP's mayors. Dear friends, for the development of democracy in this country, all countries that look like us are very interested in local governments. Let's say: We had 3,225 municipalities in our day, and I'm sorry to say, they dropped them to 1,397, along with the Metropolitan Law. At the same time, they've closed down all the cities. When we look at it, there are about 57,600 municipalities in France, 8,506 municipalities when we look at Germany, 8.117 municipalities when we look at Spain. Dear friends, after removing this Metropolitan Law, they have all the authority of the district municipalities. I'm going to give you an example of the district's 17 districts of Aydın Province, China -- the AKP MP is here, Mustafa Abi, who is from China -- the municipality's central population in 2013 is 20,250, its hundred square miles [12 km], its neighborhood 6 and its budget is 18 million 385000 lira; its population is 50,241, its service area is 940 square miles, its area is 72 million square miles [23 million km]. Now I'm asking you, I'm even asking the lawmakers who are mayors of the AKP, and I'm asking the Minister of the Interior: is there any chance you'll be able to carry a load when you've put a ton of weight on it? No. Now, I'm asking you guys, how is a mayor going to serve up from 12 square miles to 940 square miles? Their income, their water revenues are gone, they're not allowed to build, their income is down, but its volume is growing, its population is up from 20,000 to 50,000, but the budget, I'm saying it's the same budget. Now, I'm asking you... immediately and urgently, we need to re-open the entire Metropolitan Law, or else the mayors of the county will all flag bankruptcy in three or four years. On this occasion, I give you all my love and respect, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0234par0143	Thank you, Mr. Star. Third on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Gürsel Erol will speak third. Here you are, Mr. Erol. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0235par0148	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. Mr. President, I wish you my condolences.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0234par0150	Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0235par0151	In previous talks, I have defined myself as a person who did not do politics on opposition and tension in my speeches on this platform, but rather as a political questioner and a solution-oriented politician, and as the main opposition, I see myself not as an opposition to power; on the contrary, I consider myself an alternative member of power. In this sense, what I'm going to talk about here today is not only critical of the process, it's a suggestion, it's a discussion. My fellow lawmakers, July 15th is a turning point for our country and for our Parliament. If July 15 coup attempt had been concluded, many of our friends in this Parliament today were either in prison or executed where we were captured. So in fact, we witnessed a friendship of fate in Parliament in the 26th term, we all met a time of friendship because we stood together against the coup, we stood together in the squares against the coup, with the joint declaration of group presidents and presidents of 550 MPs in Parliament. If we think the July 15 coup attempt is over, we'd be wrong to assume there won't be any more coup attempts. Look, until a few days before July 15th, no one would have thought there was going to be a coup in this country, and on July 15th, we all had that day, and tomorrow, there's no telling what's going to happen. Because unfortunately, within our government, there have always been deep structures throughout history. This is called Contgerilla, pre-September 12th, the deep state on September 12th, the 2000s, the terrorist organization, this is the painting that we're dealing with. If we consider dissolving one deep structure with another deep structure, if we compromise in replacing it, we'll be open to the same threat of impact tomorrow, because after some time, the deep construction within a state was exerted by the power of the state, it either used it to shape the state for itself or for its own point of view. Reconstruction of the state, according to the merits of the state, and with loyalty to the secular republic, the state needs redevelopment. Dear lawmakers, this Parliament has achieved national achievements when it acts in common with our country in the history of Parliament. For example, in 1973, the CHP and the MSP government. The CHP and the MSP government completed the Cyprus Peace Movement in 1974 in fifty-two days, and Operation Peace of Cyprus was a glorious date in our history. The reason for the success of that day's operation is because the CHP and the MSP government look at the problem as a national problem and act together through national values. Some of our friends in Parliament have been wronged in the past. What's all this? For example, the oath of a turbaned friend of ours was not made to be an MP, but a problem was resolved in a Parliament with the Republican People's Party, the AKP, the CHP and the HDP (HDP) and the headscarf issue was lifted from Turkey's agenda. Where do I want to go from here? Dear MPs, I am an anti-HDP politician known in my constituency, known for my line of Ataturkci and republican, known for my identity against the PKK's terrorist organization, this is my political right, but a congressman should have the right and the right to feel free to express problems in his own province on this bench. It is natural for a parliamentary MP to be tried because our Constitution has expressed how to prosecute all of them, from presidents, ministers, lawmakers, to public officials, with the concern and doubt that all of the officers in the public office can commit crimes. Whether an MP can commit a crime or commit it during his term of duty; whether he can be charged, whether he can be charged, but whether an MP can be tried or not, it is not right to be tried. Again, trustee appointments. A mayor may act contrary to public order, a mayor may abuse mayoral powers; the state may also remove public authority and appoint the mayor to protect public order, as well as replace him, but he cannot ignore public law and public freedom while providing public administration, public authority. Dear HDP MPs, I'd like to address you as well. Because on June 7th, June 7th and November 1st, I am the only Republican People's Party MP in the east and southeastern province who has taken over the parliament. As much as we're criticising trench operations in the area, if it's so true here, you should have reacted there as you did when those trenches were being dug, and you should have brought them up from this podium. I mean, just reacting to ditch operations doesn't give you the benefit of the doubt. You had to be able to react while those trenches were dug, and you had to be able to react locally, and you had to be able to bring it up in Parliament. In fact, trustees are a culture of trustee appointment culture brought to Turkey by Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP). Because a appointed co-mayor has been appointed mayor over the elected mayor of every municipality. I'll give you an example from Tunceli. The mayor who was elected in Tucson couldn't sit in his own presidential office, in the mayor's office.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0236par0158	You're slandering me.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0235par0159	...the husband sat down, there was a meeting room next to the chief of staff, that meeting room was prepared to be the office of the elected mayor, and the mayor couldn't officially sign those papers unless a transfer from his co-chair, so the co-chair was in charge.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0236par0160	Is that your idea of co-chairing?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0235par0161	That's the kind of administrative management I saw in Tucson.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0236par0162	Where did you see it?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0235par0163	Dear friends, if we see power as conjunctural about ourselves, if we believe in the power of politics, if we don't believe in the independence of the judiciary, the rule of rule of law, and we don't dominate them in our country, we can be open to all kinds of threats tomorrow. Look, big states aren't remembered for big public buildings, they're not remembered for their big budgets, they're not remembered for the size of their armed forces. Great states are remembered to their citizens by the freedom they know, by the law they practice in their country. I'll give you an example: you can be strong today, politically, but tomorrow is unknown because in this country, a day before a traitor, it can be called a hero, and a day after a hero, it can be called a traitor. I'll give you an example: Kenan Universe, who carried out the 1980 military coup, met tens of thousands in every province he visited during the presidency, was given to the squares, given to schools, given to the streets, the Constitution received 92.7 per cent of the vote, but if Kenan Universe died, there were four civilians to carry out his coffin. I mean, there's no telling what happens tomorrow to the heroes today. So I'm saying that we all need to serve in a state order, not in a conventional way of political power, but in the presence of the state, independence, the unity of our unitary state structure, loyalty to the secular republic. As for our Security General Directorate -- the term is up, and I beg you for 30 seconds -- because of Mr. Hussein -- the cabinet's most difficult and most risky task is the Ministry of the Interior as Security General Directorate and as Minister. I have suggestions: one, the age of the city's police commissioners is to be raised from 60 to 65, the additional indicator of the police is 3600, the building of housing and housing for police officers serving in the east, southeast, and the construction of guest houses. Non-existents can be taken by horizontal transition, not by external purchases, but by contracting contractors and private heads serving in the public. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish you all the best of our 2017 budget for our country, with my sincerest wishes, my love and respect.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0237par0169	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0238par0170	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0237par0171	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0238par0172	Mr. Orator has repeatedly made accusations against our party, and we want our right to answer him according to the Civil Charter 69.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0237par0173	Mr. Demirel, in his speech, Mr. Erol has not joined your politics as a party, but has also expressed your criticism and suggestions, stressing your rights.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0239par0174	The HDP appointed the trustee. He said.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0238par0175	The president expressed it beyond his criticism.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0237par0176	What did he say?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0238par0177	HDP had no reaction to the ditch operation and with those reactions, HDP's operation of the ditch...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0237par0178	If you want to say you reacted, go ahead. Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0238par0180	Now, let's take it from this, to our municipalities, to the mayors, to the state of the HDP MPs, to many things that I've expressed, and since you've listened...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0237par0181	Two minutes... two minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0238par0182	Okay. Mr. Ayhan will speak.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0237par0184	Two minutes, Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0240par0188	Mr. President, we would expect the esteemed lawmakers, who are political in Dersim, to express here, on the stand, the governor's deputy governor, who has been appointed, to be eliminated by members of the CHP, even though there are no moats in Dersim. I don't think the co-chair system should have been put on the agenda, especially by someone who does politics in my class, because the co-chair system is about equality of men and women, and the co-chairs come with the election, so it's not like they've been appointed. It must be a grave lack of information to make such a simile of trustees for co-chairs. I don't want to say anything else because co-chairs are councilmen, co-chairs are councilmen, but with the business department between them, one happens because you don't officially know the president, one because you don't know the vice president. But I think there's something more grave, and I think it's that, unfortunately, in this Parliament, it's that lawmakers from all three parties are in a hurry to cover up their own offenses because the process has been initiated on the trial of lawmakers. Two parties did this as a whole group, and they took over, and they took over. The CHP officially said that the referendum would vote yes, because it was concerned that the referendum would lead the country to camping, and a group of MPs voted yes, which was obviously above 367. Now, I think, it's expressed here in defence psychology, but if you go into this method once, we'll see the same sensitivity as the painting of Syria's Syria's conflict, as it turns out today, as a secret agreement tomorrow, perhaps a few hours later, the issue of the Constitution that will be presented to the Parliament will be presented above the referendum of 367, and we'll see it together in the coming hours. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0241par0193	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0242par0194	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0241par0195	Mr. Erol, I listened to you. You, the co-chair system...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0242par0196	I'd like your word on the bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0241par0197	I'll give you my word. ...as a system, you mentioned an application in Tucson. So, I promise you two minutes of teasing.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0242par0200	Dear MPs, I'm the Tunceli MP, and it's not a profit for every father to have the courage to make my speech because you're a member of parliament in an open city against the PKK threat and you've shouted your political line everywhere as an Ataturker and a Republican, and you're known for that identity. Congressmans, the Republican People's Party has never made an open or vague agreement with HDP, or rather with the state or AKP. Before you, the leader of Sırrıyya, who spoke ahead of us, stated who had made a deal with the government under what circumstances and circumstances. Also, if you look at the referendum results on September 12, 2010, five of the highest games in Turkey: Hakkari, Siirt, Mardin, Diyarbakır is 94 per cent. Yesterday you may have made an alliance, tomorrow you may have made an alliance in the future, that's my political line and my opinion. I'm a Tunceli MP in Parliament, but I use my political thinking to solve people's problems, not to benefit people. A congressman's job is not just to voice problems in his own district. Here we are MPs, elected from our own province, representing Turkey. My priority is to solve the problems of my science, to fix the legalities of my science, to cure people's desperation; of course, as a member of a political party, I am a member of a party that struggles to rule this country in the coming period.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0243par0202	You also represent Diyya Agha.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0242par0203	I mean, today the AKP could be in power, and tomorrow the Republican People's Party could be in power. Our duty is to protect state order and public authority. I give you all my love, my respect.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0244par0206	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0245par0207	This is also fitting for the grandson of Diyap Agha.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0244par0208	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0246par0209	Mr. President, in his orator talk, Mr. Sırrıyya told me that you made an alliance with them yesterday. We didn't make an alliance with anyone. I think the orator is referring to the speaker's speech at different points.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0247par0210	Sir, there are statements in the transcripts from Mr. Sırrıyya Bey.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0248par0211	Yeah, what did he say? There was no bloodshed, he said.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0246par0212	So far, we've never made an alliance with anyone, with any party in this Parliament; the parties we've allied are always open. So, this means that you have made an alliance with the state. That's why I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0249par0213	You've recorded what you said, Mr. Demirel.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0246par0214	But, Mr. President, the information he gave about the referendum is wrong, too.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0250par0215	The information on the referendum is wrong, too.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0246par0216	Now, in the 2010 referendum, he brought it into practice as if we had given it a yes or a no. However, our approach to the 2010 referendum at the referendum was boycott. That's the wrong way to put it. I don't want to say it all one by one.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0251par0217	Tell me...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0246par0218	That's why, I mean, they're...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0251par0219	Now, look, but when you ask for a speech, when you say your reasons, in fact, you respond to bullying, Mr. Demirel, and it goes on the record.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0252par0220	It's on the stand, President.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0246par0221	But, because the President is being bullied, because there's a taunt, the answer to teasing is made from the bench according to the Civil Code 69, and I want an answer to the bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0251par0222	Who wants to say that again on the stand?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0246par0223	Mr. Ayhan will tell you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0253par0224	He can say something else, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0251par0225	I give Ayhan Bilgen a two-minute window to repeat what you have said.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0254par0227	Mr. President, we don't find it fundamentally right for opposition parties to make polemics between themselves. But each man determines his own position, of course, and we have to share our own principled position and historical reality only with your choice. In the 2010 referendum, yes, we boycotted because yes, and no, we thought we had problem dimensions. Today, the new package shows how problematic the referendum is; the HSYK members are being asked to change their position; the number of members of the Constitutional Court has been increased in 2010; they are now trying to be reduced, or, at work, the parties claiming that we had a secret alliance with the AKP (AKP) and that we had a secret agreement at that time, at the constitutional initiative four years ago, are now bringing a constitutional package here. But since we boycotted at the referendum in 2010, in Hakkari, 90 percent came out of a few games because they didn't boycott. But I'd like to tell you about peace: He has a good story about the Shams. They say... let all men take advantage of the house, and all men, and the whole world, not your property. They say: "Sems has come, and he gives his cardigan to the bearer of this good news. But they say: "He who says this is a liar." How did you honor it and give it to him? He says: "We will give our sweater to the lie of Shams. If it were true, we would give our lives. We have met for peace. We'll see each other again. If another party were in power, we'd see each other again. It doesn't matter to us whether it's CHP or MHP. We've met in this country so there won't be any bloodshed, and we don't regret it. The fact that there were no funerals at that time is thanks to those meetings. And today everyone has to take care of it. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0255par0232	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2015 1) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2015 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2015 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account CULTURE AND TURISM ACTIVITY [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Terms "I") THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH WRITTEN [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Association 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2015 Central Management Final Account On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the fourth member of İzmir MP Murat Minister will speak. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0256par0280	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the General Command of the Gendarme and the Coast Guard Command. Extraordinary situations also require extraordinary measures. And you can appreciate the days we've been through, the extraordinary days. But when you take these measures, you have to maintain a good balance of democracy and security. If you can't maintain that balance, if you take an extreme security attitude, you will destroy democracy, as you have disrespected the memory of our martyrs who stood in front of the tanks to protect the parliamentary democracy against that coup. That's exactly what happened today. You've started making structural changes in the state under the law. One of the most important ones is the General Command of the Gendarmes and the Coast Guard. We're going to civilize it. You said, and you connected it to the Ministry of Interior. Without thinking about it, this change in the internal and national defence commission has raised serious structural problems in the gendarmes and Coast Guard. Months passed, but the system couldn't dry. It is true that the police's rights should be carried out in accordance with the Turkish Armed Forces personnel, but its disciplinary procedures in accordance with the Security Disciplinary Charter have made things complicated. When the gendarme is tried, he is a civilian, he is a soldier, he is a police officer when it comes to discipline. Dear friends, the gendarme is ranked first among the general law enforcement forces in terms of the challenge of duty. What do you mean, being in the first place in the line of duty? It means he's in the hills, in the middle of nowhere, in the middle of nowhere, in the middle of nowhere, in the most basic social possibilities, in the middle of nowhere, in the middle of nowhere, in the middle of nowhere, in the middle of nowhere, in the middle of nowhere, in the middle of nowhere, in the middle of nowhere, in the middle of nowhere, in the middle of nowhere, in the middle of nowhere, It means uninterrupted transfers. To leave your wife and child at home and go home and go on a mission, knowing there's a chance you won't see his family again. Children spend their education in four or five different cities. To give root to a city means not to have lasting friendships in that city. Sometimes it means not being able to see your child born, sometimes not being able to watch your child graduate. Knowing that he or his comrades could be martyrs at any moment and living with that state of mind. Dear friends, there are serious problems between the police officer, the police officer, the police officer, the senior officer; there are serious differences among the staff that are troubling the conscience; let me simply say that the police officer has to be launched from the 8th degree degree. In order to address injustice, the additional indicator of petty officers in 4 ▪ must be changed. Petty officers can't benefit only from seven different compensations paid to the senior officers; this should be resolved by consultation of the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Interior, and by consultation of both ministries. There are around 21,000 veteran gendarmes with domestic security staff; 80 per cent of them are university graduates and faculty graduates. The officer's school of the petty officer is not considered a service, but the school of the expert gendarme is not considered a service. Let's borrow. They can't do these debts, even though they say so. Expert gendarmes demand 3,600 additional indicators. An 80 percent of the senior officers employed in the staff of petty officers will be the root solution to their problems, including a plan and taking the necessary courses, such as the previous extension sergeants. An expert contractor with a contract doesn't have job guarantees. Specialists should be given a staff and retire in uniform. The attending doesn't want to go to the doctor even though he's sick. Why? Because he thinks my contract will be annulled. It's possible he's a martyr, but there's no way he's sick, a group of experts like that. If he gets disciplinary action, his contract will be annulled, leading to the chief justice. An inequality of subsidiary housing must be resolved in the gendarmes. We read a story recently, and it spread on the Internet: in the Turkish Armed Forces and the Ministry of Interior -- Mr. Minister, I'm telling you -- that if you look at the satellite, the security personnel will be dressed in nanotechnology uniforms that will not be seen. Mr. Secretary, you don't have to dress the petty officer, you don't have to dress the expert gendarme, you don't see them in private; you don't see them in life, we remember them as martyrs. After that, we're talking in this Parliament: "Who went to the martyr's funeral, and who didn't?" Dear friends, these problems aren't solved by lecture on heroism. Heroism is not about running the land of Solomon Shah Turbage from the deserts of the Middle East; it is not about challenging Israel and taking 20 million and giving up the case. (Applause from the ranks of the Turkish Republic) It is not to speak against the Republic of Turkey as a state and to let the Greek flag fly to 18 of our men; one day we entered Syria to end the persecution of the Syrian people. We said, "The next day we entered the fight against the terrorist." Do you know who the hero is, my friends? In World War II, he kept our country out of the war and left the children without a father and the mother without a son. (HPP) In Yugoslavia, he was the hero of many ethnic and religious structures after the war, who resisted Hitler's fascism and lived together as brothers. The Vietkongs have done me no harm. Why should I fight them? (Applause from the ranks of CHP) He is the hero of Fidel, the ruler of Cuba, who defeated the dictator who ruled an island in the ocean with oppression and persecution, and saved it from imperialism. (HPP applause) The hero of Gandhi is India, who believes that love is the greatest force and uses love for violence as a weapon. He is the hero who led Cyprus to freedom and peace. Our people who lay in front of the tank to protect their democracy are the heroes of our Veteran Assembly, who are united against the coup. It's the gendarme who risked his own child to be an orphan so that our children could live freely in the love of our country. It's the Coast Guard's crew that saves immigrants from desperate, raging seas. Our Wise Leader is Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our country. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0257par0293	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the Republican People's Party group, the fifth speaker will speak for Sakarya MP, Mr. Engin Ozkoc. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Ozkoch, your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0258par0297	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are officially coming to parliament, the Constitutional Commission, to change our 90-year-old republic history today. Today, let's put aside AKP, CHP, MPP, HDP; all these political parties. Let's see who decided on this regime change today: President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. When he came to power 14 years ago, only three martyrs were given from PKK terrorism in one year; 2016, 750 victims were given from PKK terrorism within a year. By his order, we went to the solution process in Turkey. By his command, the governors ignored the dug trenches, the tunnels. By his command, the soldiers were confined to the barracks, the terrorists were untouched. At the Habur Border Gate, under his orders, PKK terrorists were brought into Turkey with drums in front of judges and prosecutors. Now, those terrorists are martyring our children. The same President Recep Tayyip Erdogan handed over our Chief of Staff who fought the PKK, the soldiers, the writers, the journalists, the students, the patriotic people to the prosecutors of the congregation; Silivri sentenced them to life imprisonment. Erdogan was behind the famous prosecutor of that day, Zechariah, who now pursued him. He replaced the generals he had condemned during that time with the generals of the congregation. He created the floor of the most bloody coup attempt. That's why we killed 250 people. Bombs went off in the cities, we lost 300 victims in a year and a half for 17 live bombs. Who drew Syrian terror into our country with their own hands? Assad, the brother who was hosted in the basement, later became the terrorist Esed. A year ago, he apologized later to the Russian leader, whom he defied. For the Russian plane that was dropped from the Syrian border, I gave it to him. It was said, "It's OK, and then when three of our soldiers lost their lives on the anniversary, he didn't even say a word. The Al Nusra terrorist organization did not become a terrorist organization at Putin's request, but in front of the world, the whole world learned from Turkey that he had delivered to that terrorist organization, El Nusra, from his mouth. He said, "I will ask for the account for the Blue Marmara." He said, "He went to Israel's foot as if nothing had happened again." In exchange for our people who died in the Blue Marmara, he accepted the $20 million bounty money. Did you stand before the weeping, screaming families, and ask me, and I said, "Did you go?" Neither did the embargo rise in Gaza, nor could he himself go to Gaza. We have no friends left in the Middle East. In Europe, Austria is the enemy, Germany is the enemy, Holland is the enemy, Greece is the enemy, the entire European Union is the enemy. We were supposed to be NATO members, and now we're trying to get into Shanghai, Russia. There is no reputation in the world; there is no reputation in the PKK; there is no reputation in the PYD; there is no reputation in the caliber; there is no reputation in the YPG; there is no reputation in Turkey. Turkey has nothing left in its hands. In 14 years since his arrival in power, he has sold PETKIM, TÜPRASH, TECEL, SEKAI, Sumer Holding, ETI Holdings, sugar factories, public banks, thermal plants, water plants, mines and ports. The government's debt rose from 240 billion dollars to $680 billion. The dollar went from $1.5 to $3.5. Now it's time for the dollar under the citizen's pillow. Everyone will be questioned about the dollar in the bedrooms and the shoeboxes. When he said, "He condemned people to the dollar under the pillow." President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is responsible for the political crisis, the economic crisis, the social crisis, the suffering of instability. (HPP clapping in rows) Sitting in his thousand-room palace, he calls out to the people: "I am alone, make me president." he says. When we have hundreds of martyrs in the country, when we're stuck in Syria, when our reputation is over in Europe and in the world, when unemployment, poverty is on its way, I am alone in that thousand-room palace, make me president." he says. He wants to change the history of the republic for 90 to four years. Now, I ask you: the good people of my country, the valued MPs, held on to the palace of Saddam in Iraq, and Gaddafi held on to it in Libya. Isn't it a shame if one day the imperialist countries of the world, like the United States, entered that illegal palace to bring democracy to Turkey, to divide this country four to five, as they did in the Middle East, and we, like the Syrian citizens, began to search for our homeland in the dark waters of the Mediterranean? I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0259par0308	Thank you. Mr. Engin Ozkoc, we discussed the presidential budget on Tuesday, but today you were going to talk about the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, and I think there's been a mix-up, so I thought I'd give him your attention.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0260par0310	He's lost his day, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0261par0311	We spoke to the State Department yesterday.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0262par0312	Mr. President, you're not supposed to comment on this, no.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0263par0313	There was no confusion, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0262par0314	You're not supposed to comment on that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0264par0315	I know what I'm doing.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0265par0316	That's a good comment, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0262par0317	No.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0266par0318	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0267par0319	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0266par0320	Mr. President, after the AKP Group took a statement in the morning, I had suggested that the AKP Group might want to speak out because the president had spoken out or because the government had spoken out, but frankly I hadn't thought of you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0267par0321	Well, there's obviously an insult.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0266par0322	No, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0267par0323	I took what you did this morning, your morning speech as a joke, and I accept it as a joke at the moment, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0266par0324	Our friend's speech is a complete criticism, and politicians need to be prepared for the harshest criticism.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0267par0325	That's how I see it, Mr. Sky. I've just reminded Mr. Ozkoc of how to speak, how to speak, what to do, just to follow the working order.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0268par0327	Then you send the texts, and we'll speak accordingly, Mr. President. Write the texts, then send them.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit03spe0267par0328	I just did it, and I'll do it again. Oh, and if you want more, I can tell you that our president is not alone. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0267par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Istanbul MP Selina Doğan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Dogan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0269par0009	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, on behalf of my group, I have made a pledge on the budget of the Department of Immigration. I salute you all. You know, Turkey has faced a massive wave of migration in Syria and the Middle East over the past five years. Since the civil war in Syria is not over yet, this wave is not known when it will end. However, there is a known fact that the AKP's foreign policy with imperial dreams, fantasies, and religious ideas has collapsed. As a matter of fact, this policy is nothing more than a nostalgic Ottoman dream that ignores the international conjunctural situation. As a result, about 3 million people today had to take refuge from Syria to Turkey. With millions of people, it's a big organization to deal with economic, sociological, cultural, legal issues. We thank all institutions who have worked hard in this sense. However, the volume of the immigration phenomenon in our country has already exceeded the volume of the Finnish Immigration Administration General Directorate and the volume of the AFAD (AFAD). Therefore, we again repeat the proposal for the establishment of a ministry of immigration and integration, which we have expressed here on various occasions as a party. Members of parliament, it is clear that Turkey must first have an immigration policy to deal with this problem. This policy needs to be prepared with an understanding based on human and pluralism that does not change according to the conjunctural situation. To date, Turkey thought it was an immigration policy to provide for asylum seekers' basic needs, such as housing and health. However, only 10 per cent of the 3 million refugees still live in camps, while no housing policy has been prepared for others. The problem of immigration is handled by the AFAD and the Interior Ministry Immigration Administration, which deals with disasters, but the problem of immigration is not a single disaster and security. It is time for Turkey to form a more holistic and permanent immigration policy. Instead of doing so, the AKP's government uses people who seek refuge in our country from war, slaughter, as a means of blackmail against Europe. Of course, the European Union's policy to not take responsibility for Turkey's immigration problem or to not share responsibility equally has nothing to defend. However, we have a government that threatens Europe through people who take refuge in it every time there are problems. What's he saying, Mr. President? Look at me, if you go any further, these border gates will be opened, and you will know that. We leave it to your appreciation for what kind of conscience and political understanding it is to threaten others over people's desperation. Remember, just two days before the July 15 coup, we were talking about giving citizenship to the Syrians, and suddenly the refugees were vaporized, and now we can't even talk about it. Of course, there's no way to accept a rebuttal agreement signed by the European Union. It's obvious that both sides are getting away from their values. How much of the 3 billion euros committed to the extradition agreement have been paid? Where will this money be spent, how will it be spent? Our motions on this matter have yet to be answered. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to address another important matter. You know there are 19 return centers in Turkey. The capacity of these centers is 6,810 people. This year, the new 210-capacity reference centre will be opened, as well as 12 other 10,070-capacity hubs in 2017, so the capacity of the send-back centers will be doubled in a very short time. We want to know what needs this, why the capacity of these centers is increasing. But one thing we do know is that these centers are being used like prisons. There have been increasing allegations of intense human rights violations. On November 19th, there was a riot at Kumkapi Resuscitation Center, 123 people escaped. There was another riot at the same station the week before, and the people waiting set the beds on fire. We're wondering what's going on around here. So, how many days does a person stay in a recycling center? One day, two days, three days... I want to give you an example: Andrew Brunson, an American citizen who has lived with his wife in Turkey for 22 years, a Christian man of the cloth, and so far he has no criminal record. Brunson was taken into custody on October 7th and taken to the İzmir Hardmandalı Repatriation Center and kept here for sixty-four days. Now, we're questioning this: you know, even in extraordinary circumstances, people can be held in custody for 30 days at most, but this person has been held at the send-back center for sixty-four days, and since his file has a restraining order, neither the American Embassy nor any of us have been informed in any way. It seems that this person was only told that he was being held for threatening national security. It seems that the bill for the coup attempt is being raised to all but the AKP. Less than a few days after the coup attempt, His Holiness Bartholomew, the Greek Patriarch of Fener, who was the most important spiritual leader of the conservative media Orthodox Christians, brought him to the front page of a supporting newspaper. It was said that Fetullah Smiley was actually Armenian, which is what we want to know. Again, Christians were publicly accused of meeting with the pope of the period as part of Smiley's interreligious dialogue project. I wish you would have done such a project as the legitimate government of this country, and if it hadn't been for terrorist organizations like this, we'd be proud of it. In the end, Minister of Forestry and Waterworks, Mr. Veysel Eroglu said that he who laughs will die in the United States and will be buried in the Jewish cemetery. We obviously don't care where Fetullah Smiley is going to be buried, but we also condemn the fact that such a sacred place of a certain religion, like a cemetery, has to be put into the form of such hatred. Dear lawmakers, as minorities of this country, we are concerned, concerned. It is the famous dialogue of the cult scene of Casablanca film: round up the usual suspects. We don't want to be the usual suspects in this country anymore. Please don't burden the infidels with the crimes of your former ruling partner, which you have given them, which you have not said twice, nor with what they have asked for, according to the testimony of Mr. Numan Survivor. You're in charge. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Members of parliament, after July 15th, Turkey entered a large nightmare and was fired from tens of thousands of opposition jobs on the basis of the fight against the coup. People are unhappy and nervous in a sense of nothingness; look around, in companies working for visas, the Turkish Republics are on their way to becoming refugees to foreign countries.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0270par0022	Thank you, Mr. Doğan.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0269par0023	People are desperate. But we call out: Do not despair, but we will continue to fight each other by giving each other hope. Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0270par0026	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt will be the seventh to speak on behalf of the People's Party Group. Mr. Bozkurt, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 14 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0271par0031	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Mr. President, I wish you my condolences again.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0270par0033	Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0271par0034	Before or when we begin, Mr. Secretary of Defense... you know we're both interviewing the 2017 budget and the 2015 Final Account Bill. In the Defence Industry Undersecretary of the Court's Office of 2015 Investigation Report, Mr. Secretary of State, it has been reported that the account records of the $1 billion,894m,586,680 Turkish lira -- held under the name "Project Accounts" and in the euro accounts -- were not taken into account in comparison with the bank accounts of the Defense Industry Support Fund. Now, under the principle of the provision union, all government funds must be transferred to the Central Bank or to a public bank by order of the Council of Ministers during the day. You seem to be using the Agriculture Bank here. But to be honest, the money that didn't go into the accounting records is worth, like, $400 million. Now, you also have an explanation on December 7th, and you say: "We have converted 262m euros and 31m euros from the Defense Industry Support Fund into TL. " I'd be very pleased if you explained it from here. You probably followed Mr. President's call to remove the money under the pillow, which is about $1,800 million -- or 2 quadrillion -- under which pillows. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, who have been talking about the budget of the National Ministry of Defence and the Defense Industry... have been here for days, 16 AKP MPs every day -- we're listening, although the valued ruling group is not very popular, they prefer conversation among themselves, but 16 of our fellow speakers and members of the group who have been taking word from time to time tell us how successful their 14-year-old powers are, and the 15th budgets will be the same success. As far as I know, the PMs are offering the budgets to the House, as head of government. And you, now, lift the Prime Minister. If you're so pleased, why in God's name would you lift the Prime Minister's office? So what's the purpose of the lift?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0272par0036	It's not working.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0271par0037	There's talk of budgets, there's a country you've created in 14 years. In this country, as we spoke here last week, on behalf of this House, I apologized to our children who were raped in Karaman, and burned in Aladağ. Dear friends, do you realize that in this climate that you have created in which you say in 14 years we're raising a generation of religious and vindictive people and using a religious jargon to make them so religious that you don't like anyone's Islam, our women are no longer able to walk in parks? And I've been waiting for days, and on September 12th, she gets kicked in the van in shorts, and I wonder if this Parliament feels the need to apologize to the Deputy Speaker of the Parliament or to the women in power. No. Or a brother named Ebru Tireli, who was attacked while walking in a park in Manisa Turgutlu a few days ago, says, "I'm pregnant, don't shoot." I had a coat on my back, and nothing was open, he says. If you are happy with this Turkey that you have created in 14 years, continue. Now, at the point where we're here, there's a bunch of people on television who are giving you the power trumpet -- by the middle of the night -- who are actually related to the CHP, who are related to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and who are already burned by CHP and so on and so forth. It's interesting, this effort has reached that extent that in 2002, when you actually came to power, for example -- you're always a victim, you've always had military custody, then you've got custody, then you've got media custody, you know, Aydın Doğans, then Ergenekon. Uğur Mumcu was killed by Ergenekon, Ahmet Taner killed by Ergenekon; Mustafa Balbay coupger, Dursun Cicek wet signator; then Ergenekon... Ergenekon was already with the CHP, so they were doing it together. And now that he's out, you're always the victim, you have no responsibility. You've been running the country for 14 years, you're not responsible for military custody, you're not responsible for Ergenekon, you're not responsible for anything, you're not responsible for anything, you're not responsible for anything, and you want the presidency now. For who? 1400 times in 14 years, 14,000 times for your chieftain. May God forgive us and forgive us and let us continue our work... let us continue, my friends, what shall we do with these photos? Look, this is the opening of Bank Asia. Look, this is like a visit to a shrine by your friends, Fetullah Gülen. Look, these... look, here...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0273par0040	Osman Bey, my memory...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0271par0041	Mr. Bulent Turan, calm down. Look, there's no Kemal Kilicdaroglu here, take a good look. Look, now, look where you come from. Look, brother, look where you come from...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0273par0042	They passed...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0274par0043	Please... please... please respect the speaker.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0273par0044	It's an independence fight. Show me again, show me again...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0045	Look where you've come from.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0273par0046	It's a shame, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0276par0047	I don't see it, and that's why I can't interfere, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0048	Look, you're from around here.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0273par0049	Well, who are they, who are they, who are they? Can you tell me who they are?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0050	So how much, how much has it been, since 1924, that's been trying to break down the secular republic in this country?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0273par0051	You're showing wisdom. What do you mean? What a shame!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0052	...religious, religious, reactionary, religious, religious, religious, organized organization, all of you are blood brothers, all of you are identical twins, you created this painting with all of them; you don't have to twist it at all, you're clearly together with all of them.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0273par0054	Where's the counselor now?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0277par0055	But the counselor's got the wrong speech, the Defense Industry Undersecretary!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0056	Look, my dear friends, on March 16, 1923 Mustafa Kemal Ataturk says: "You must know that the wicked who led us astray, they have taken up much of the veil of religion and have deceived our innocent and decent people with the words of the law."
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0273par0057	They're so stale.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0058	Read our history, listen, and you will see that the evils that destroy the nation, destroy it, destroy it, always come from blasphemy and melanettes, which is what Mustafa Kemal said in 1923, ninety-three years ago.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0278par0059	Just so you know, they ate Baykal.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0060	Again, your President will deny them, of course, and you will deny them.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0278par0061	A victim too, Baykal, tell me that.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0279par0062	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0063	Again, in 1924, when it is discussed how the President will be elected, the Parliament is almost elected by the people. When the decision is made, Gazi takes the stand and says: "Sirs, it is lawful to have the Cumhurrei elected by the people, it is better for the MPs to choose. As for the cause, tomorrow, someone will come out, and the people will choose me. He will declare his kingdom or dictatorship, which will slaughter democracy.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0280par0065	Weren't you elected by the people?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0066	If you'd stop saying Mustafa Kemal, two drunkards from 90 years ago and listen a little, dear brothers, you'd be better off.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0280par0067	Stop the hostility of the people.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0068	If women can't walk the streets in this country anymore, I'm calling from that stand to all the women of my country...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0281par0069	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0282par0070	That's not fair.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0071	My dear women, if the women of this House allow this presidential constitution to pass through this House, you, dear women, if you want to walk the streets freely...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0282par0073	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0283par0074	Get rid of the Mayor's paranoia.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0075	...don't ever let this attempt to divide Turkey and create a one-man dictatorship, women.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0284par0076	What is your fear of the chosen man?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0077	Because women are sentenced to seven years and seven days in prison to a British judge who is tried for scaring a young girl who walks in a park in London.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0285par0078	What is London ruled by, England? What is England ruled by, Mr. Orator?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0079	Ma'am, listen.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0285par0080	We're listening.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0286par0081	We're listening, but we don't understand.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0082	The press say: "Ya, why hasn't he touched her for seven years, seven days, seven days, a lot?" He says: "Seven days, for scaring that young girl, but seven years, for scaring her English girls to roam the streets freely. So, dear brothers and sisters, for sure, the history is -- truly, I'm telling you -- for sure -- for the sake of God's sake, let alone read a little bit of this lunatic who's been walking around the streets. Read, history is full of lessons. Believe me, history is full of lessons. Ayþegül Terzilar, Ebru Hanım, look, I'm telling you, it was possible for her to roam the streets of this country freely these days, but now this is Mrs. Ebru, and she says: "Why did they attack me?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0287par0083	What about girls who don't go to colleges? Then why didn't you talk?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0084	Now, if you're preventing women from living freely in the streets of this country, dear Osman Look, I won't look at you, you take care of yourself, brother, never mind. I'll talk to him.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0287par0086	You tell me that.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0087	See what Ziya Pasha said in 1859.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0287par0088	Tell me that!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0089	Do you think every person is private? You think Edhem's the one who wears every crown? You wouldn't find a man in a thousand if you called the Dehri. Do you think Adam is a man of sight? I've seen a lot of mukbil, and he laughs, and he bleeds inside. Do you think anyone who shows up at the inn is Hürrem? Know (the truth). Verily, Allah is the All-Knower, the All-Wise, the All-Wise. Do you think every ointment is an ointment for every wound? What's with the arrogance? Otherwise it's true that I'm the queen, You think you're my motto? O you world of old! You think the world is yours? When was the time left of the people of Jihan, Do you think that you have any control over this world? It discovers what you least expect. Do you think everyone is blind and stupid in the world? Dear brothers...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0288par0106	That's you. This poem speaks of you. The same things...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0107	Look, dear brother, we say the same thing, of course it's true.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0288par0108	It's all about you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0109	We're discussing the budget of the National Defense Department. Our two ministries are the head of the National Guard; one is the National Education, and one is the National Defense.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0289par0110	What a shame!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0111	Why National Education? Because in national values, his mind is made up of science and enlightenment to raise free individuals. Why National Defense? To protect our borders and our homeland. Now, whatever we say here, Naci Hodja comes here and says: "But we got 49 per cent of the vote."
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0290par0113	Take it if you can.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0275par0114	Dear Teacher, I'm a doctor. I mean, I've got a doctor's degree and I've done the wrong surgery and I've killed a patient, but I don't have a doctor's degree. You, now, in national education, according to the value of the 2015 PISA, you have reduced the children of this country to the 52nd position, Mr. Minister of Education, this is your national education, and your Minister of National Education has said: "If only they had one science high school, we would be 3th, when they had vocational high schools. But the man you're running for Kabataş Boys' High School says: "Let's make all schools imam-acquainted." Your position in the national defense: Mr. Secretary, excuse me, the Greek flag is flying on your 18 islands, and if I were you, I wouldn't sit in that chair one day. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0291par0118	Thank you. Mr. Bozkurt, I have to make a statement: As the women MPs you've criticised and I'm among them -- who become women MPs of the AK PARTI, who are members of the AK PARTY -- I'd like to give you a brief examination of what we're doing about the intervention of our sister in shorts, how we're taking a stand. Please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0292par0120	They don't look at him.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0293par0121	Read it, read it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0294par0122	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0295par0123	Mr. Mush, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0296par0124	Let me tell you something.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0295par0125	I just made a statement.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0296par0126	Okay, well, if that's the kind of statement you made, Mr. President, I'd like to convey my happiness. But the reason that our daughter, who was attacked two days ago, made that statement is because of this climate created by the ruling party you belong to.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0297par0127	Not at all, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0298par0128	It's got nothing to do with it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0297par0129	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0298par0130	There's no bread, work, work...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0299par0131	That's your own personal opinion. In that case, Mr. Mehmet Mush, the Deputy Director of the Group may respond. My power to answer is out of the question right now.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0132	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0299par0133	Mr. Mush, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0134	Our group has been publicly bullied. I mean, the state the country is in, what they say about conservative people, what they say about our party's corporate identity, that's open teasing, I promise.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0299par0135	Here, two minutes... [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Congressmans, we're listening to Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0140	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have made it clear that we condemn both of these events, and that our government, the Minister of Family and Social Policy, has made the necessary statements and stated that these two events will be followed at the point of legal process. Besides, it's obvious that our women's deputies are here as well.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0301par0141	You're getting that mentality programmed in TRT, program; you're encouraging that mentality.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0142	Look, I'll tell you one thing: in the group speech of the presidents, they applauded the words that he used against our Minister of Family and Social Policy in his group, that's the mentality.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0302par0143	You know what he meant by that, you know.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0144	First give your president a line, teach him how to use words against women, then come out and talk to us.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0302par0146	You know what that means, don't twist it, don't twist it. You know very well what he's saying, you're twisting it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0303par0147	Mr. Pine, please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0148	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look what it says: "Efficiency belongs to the nation unconditionally. " Who said that? Vezi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said. Don't be afraid of the people. It's about the presidency, the matter of the presidency will go public, whichever way people use their opinion at this point will be subject to it. Sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally, and may I remind you, it may be great, written, forgotten. Number two: Dear lawmakers, look, there is a struggle here that we put forth as AK PARTY and AK PARTY after it was discovered that this structure was an organizational structure. So, what did the Republican People's Party do after it was discovered that it was an organization, that it was secretly trying to get inside the state? It's not me, it's the presidents. Look - Birgül Ayman Güler - I've said this before, Mr. Orator, read these.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0304par0151	No more supplies, no more supplies?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0152	We co-operated with the body -- so he's using that expression -- they're saying it, we're not saying it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0304par0153	Where is she, where is she, where is Miss Birgül now?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0154	Look, Hüseyin Aygün says that while I was a member of parliament, it would benefit the AKP to criticize the congregation of Fetullah Gülen. He is Kemal Kildaroglu, who came back empty-handed.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0305par0155	Who told you to turn around and end this longing? Who was the one who brought help to the congregation in the Milky Way? He's going to help the congregation in the Milky Way TV...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0156	Shall I tell you the day he warned me about Fetullah Smiley? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On the day of the burial of Ali Ismail Korkmaz... he answered the call. Look...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0306par0159	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0160	One more thing...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0306par0161	Your time is up, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0162	Mr. President, I'm dying. Look, instead of showing pictures here, take a look at these photos. When is this?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0307par0164	What's that?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0165	March 19th, ten days before the local elections. Whose channel? It's the channel.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0308par0166	Mr. Mush, please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0167	He goes out there and says about the Prime Minister of Turkey...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0309par0168	RTÜK allowed that channel to open, RTÜK...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0169	He has no choice but to flee the country. For Erdogan's sake, we'll bring him to this country even if he runs away.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0310par0170	Mr. Mush, please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0171	Dear MPs, Erdogan is here and in charge of his country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] How about you?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0310par0174	Mr. Mush, your time is up, please.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0175	Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0310par0176	Please, Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0177	I'll tell you the details, Mrs. Büşra Erdal is here.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0311par0178	Very nice to meet you, very nice to meet you. That's the 10th time I've...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0300par0179	Look, Mrs. Büşra Erdal is here, I'll tell you about it, I'll tell you about it. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0312par0182	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0313par0183	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0312par0184	First Hosni Bey has a say in the taunt, and then I will demand it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0314par0185	I picked on the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0313par0186	Mr. Husnu, let's hear it. What did they tease you about?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0315par0187	Mr. President, I know what I'm saying. Mr. Orator, the vice president of the group is taking bets on things I've never said, one. For the second or 10th time, it shows the same thing.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0314par0188	You're showing the same.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0315par0189	Now, Birgül Ayman Güler is not a member of parliament.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0316par0190	Now, look, your group vice president can answer him, talk to him.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0315par0191	No, sir, I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0316par0192	What did he say about you?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0315par0193	It's obvious what he said about me, saying what I didn't say. What's that got to do with anything? I know what I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0317par0194	Mr. President, I have criticised the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0315par0195	I know what I'm saying. I'm talking about the relationship with the Fetullah Smiley organization.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0318par0196	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0315par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Mehmet Mush Bey, you say the same thing now, now, maybe for the 10th time here. Look, Fetullah Gülen terrorist organization. When did you tell the organization you call it? On December 17th-25th, December 17th-25th, you admit that you were in touch with this organization, that you were in touch with it, that you were in touch with it, that you were in touch with it, that you said so yourself. Now, if you're with this organization before 17-25 December 2013, where do we put the word of your President, who says, "They've left me alone to fight this organization since 2010?" If you've been fighting this organization since 2010, in 2013...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0319par0200	Tell me what you've done. It's not power, but what did you do?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0315par0201	We're not in power, sir. You still think you're the opposition.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0319par0203	What did you do as opposition?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0320par0204	Mr. Bozkurt...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0315par0205	You're in power, you're in charge. Now...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0320par0206	Mr. Bozkurt, can I have your attention, please?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0315par0207	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0320par0208	You'll respond to the bullying about you, but you're doing something else.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0315par0209	I'm telling you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0321par0210	Mrs. Büşra Erdal is here. Look, Mrs. Büşra Erdal is here too. The first visit is to CHP.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0315par0211	In 2013, your head of the Turkish Olympics is on the stand today, saying: "Mr. Hodja, turn around, come back, this longing will be over."
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0321par0212	The first visit is to CHP.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0315par0213	There's nowhere for you to go now, showing the same photos of a party that's not in power for the 10th time. You will answer the question I asked, Mr. Mehmet Mush. I say: You are in contact with the Fetullahist terrorist organization and you are in contact with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and you are in contact with ISIS. Come, answer this here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0322par0215	We're not.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0315par0216	Yeah, you're in touch, you are.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0322par0217	We're not.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0323par0218	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0324par0219	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0325par0220	You're the one who said, "Lovely children." I'm not.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0326par0221	I'll listen to Mr. Sky
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0327par0222	We're not.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0326par0223	I'd like to hear Mr. Sky first.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0328par0224	Mr. President, if you'd like, you can promise Mr. Naci Bostancı, that after his speech, maybe I won't have the right to take another word. Let him make an assessment, and then we'll...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0326par0225	Well, thank you for your understanding. Mr. Bostanci, let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0329par0227	I'd like to thank Mr. Levent for his grace. The speaker who was just here, referring to my name, carried a link that I didn't mean for the 49-50 percent assessment. I demand a word of bullying according to 69.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0326par0229	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0329par0232	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, I salute you all. Who did Ataturk trust when giving up the Istiklal War? He trusted people. Didn't Ataturk know that the people he trusted wouldn't put a tyrant, a dictator to work with his vote? He knew. Because he trusted this nation to the end, we fought this national battle because this nation was behind the Ataturk. Now, I also leave it to the appreciation of a political party with such a history, a history, and a constant political statement to present what Ataturk said in a form of insecurity towards the nation. Ataturk has always trusted the nation, and Ataturk has trusted this nation in the future, open up and look at his ideas. But forgive me, who hesitated to trust the nation in the political atmosphere of that period, because you opened it -- it's CHP, and you should know well how the only party in the elections has already nominated its MPs.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0330par0234	June 7th, Castamonu, number one candidate.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0329par0235	I'll give you one example: John Kemal is a great poet, a great literary man, and a great steward. First Yozgat served as a deputy, then Tekirdağ served as a deputy, then he served as a deputy in Istanbul. And while you're doing all that, make sure he hasn't gone to any of them except Istanbul, because in that period, he's not looking for any ideas, influence on the elected MPs, anything like that.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0331par0236	That's wrong too, Hajji.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0329par0237	There's only one person to look after, our Pasha. The atmosphere of the period, of course, says our Pasha: I don't think that my MPs should have such different ideas. He'll come after me regularly like a battalion.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0331par0238	It's for propaganda.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0332par0239	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0331par0240	It's wrong, it's false information, it's not true.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0333par0241	After all, he's from the military.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0332par0243	Mr. Botanci, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0333par0244	Today, look at the changes in public selection, classical democracy. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0334par0247	Erzincan, where do your deputies live, Mr. Bostanci?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0335par0248	That's false information.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0336par0249	The Palace casts you all, the Palace casts you all, the Palace.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0335par0250	He's wrong, it's not true.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0337par0251	Mr. Özkan, I'm listening to your Group Chairman. Please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0335par0252	But he's saying something historically wrong.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0337par0253	Well, please... Now, here's your Deputy Director of the Group. Please, Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0335par0254	That's not true, Hodja.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0337par0255	We have to stick to our agenda.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0335par0256	There was an election at that time.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0337par0257	We have to stick to our agenda. Mr. Sky, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0335par0259	And what the Deputy Director of the Group said is wrong.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0337par0260	This is the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0335par0261	I thought he was gonna fix it. The teacher twisted history.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0337par0262	Please... I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0338par0264	Mr. President, in the words of the speakers who just spoke, there are accusations and allegations against our party, our President and our members.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0337par0265	Two minutes, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0338par0267	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, of course the days we live in will be discussed in a way that all -- all nudity and truth will come out, and all facts will come out in a clear way. The Republican People's Party founded this state. When he founded Turkey in his war of independence against imperialism, Ataturk had only one model in mind: the level of modern civilization, the sovereignty of the people and the secular republic. And as a result, under the leadership of Ataturk (Ataturk) and his comrades, Turkey lived without pain more than a single party to return to the party and showed its ability to give up power by buttoning its way when the Ismet Innu was defeated in the first election. Here's the idea of democracy and maturity we're looking for. Now, as soon as you offer the Republican People's Party a law proposal that reduces Turkey to one party and one man's regime from a multi-party system to more than one party, do not attempt to lecture the Republican People's Party on democracy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Today is a historic day, an attack on Turkey's 100-40-year parliamentary regime is being launched. We, hopefully, will repel this attack with our people. As Turkey deserves, we will crown democracy on the secular republic's axis, human rights, we have the power to do that, but you have nothing to teach the Republican People's Party about Fetullah Gulen, in any way.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0339par0271	I remind you of the Adana rally.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0338par0272	You've been in the same range from the beginning, you've walked in the same range, and you've placed those squads.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0340par0273	Look at the counselors, the consultants.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0338par0274	Did I tell you that the chief of police in 81 provinces was 79? Your Home Secretary told me. If there is, at the wrong Republican People's Party, the Republican People's Party will go through these mistakes, never make a mistake, but look inside. For example, Şaban gear, Mehmet gear, do you question them? Your vice president. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mehmet Toothli is the most important key name of the coup.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0341par0277	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0342par0278	How do you know we didn't question him? We're questioning him.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0343par0279	What does the accused have to do with Şaban gear?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0344par0280	Vice President Şaban Toothli is there. As long as you don't question them, unless you do this reckoning, the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0342par0281	Is your president guilty because he's your president's advisor?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0343par0282	Mr. Kilicdaroglu's brother is saying something, too, what then?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0345par0283	Mr. Sky, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0346par0284	...no claim will be found.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0347par0286	Mr. President, we want a promise.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0348par0287	Mr. Levent is a lawyer. For the record, there's a very basic principle about the personality of crimes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0349par0288	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0350par0289	That's right. Isn't the same for us? 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2015 1) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2015 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2015 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account CULTURE AND TURISM ACTIVITY [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Terms "I") THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH WRITTEN [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Association 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2015 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0351par0333	Mr. Radishcu, I believe you're here. Mr. Radishcu, please enter the system so you can ask questions in the QA section. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Hatay MP Hilmi Bilicier will speak eighth. Here you go, Mr. Maker. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0352par0338	Mr. President, we'd be very happy if you'd promised us as women of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0353par0339	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with love and respect. I'd like to start with a quote from a writer in the past who served as Prime Minister of the Press: If there are two areas where the PARTI's government has failed most, surely one of them is a culture and an art field. The debates have eaten years, but we haven't been able to get any distance from them. It's a big disappointment, a huge fiasco. It is the past Minister of Culture of the EC PARTI. It is a very accurate and accurate assessment, and I agree with that assessment. Art was something to spit out for you, that's how we met, the way you looked at art. That's when it came. For your founding leader, ballet was below the belt, and the statue he didn't like is a freak. Therefore, there is no room in your culture and art world for opera, ballet, music, painting, sculpture. The fans of the mentality you represent are tearing up statues all over Asia Minor, raiding artists' cocktails. We didn't get a single response from the Minister of Culture. It was your duty anyway. Come on, you've made roads, you've built bridges, you've been bragging about it. But the skycaffes, stuck like a dagger in Istanbul's skyline, is still in place. You also stabbed a dagger into the magnificent image of Sultanahmet, Ayasofiah. For the skyscrapers of Oliveburn were made in your power. You've never created anything of aesthetic value. You know what the Nazis' propagandist Goebbels says: when I hear the word "culture," my hand goes right into my pocket. You are standing before us as the ghost of Goebbels. Yes, the culture and art policy of your 14-year-old power is simply nothing, and that nothingness imposes itself on society as a vulgarity. That's why you're trying to silence artists and artists today with pressure and intimidation policies. And you know very well that the conveyor of free thinking is culture, art. You're giving the country pain in the process of the fall of the Ottomans. The famous debate of the Tanzimat period is that let's imitate the laws of the West; let's take his gun, his technology; but not his culture, his art, his free thinking environment. You have the blindness of the ruling team of that time. I told you, the conveyor of free thinking is art, culture. That technology was that free-thinking environment that created those laws. And as far as art is concerned, he's opposing, revolutionary. And because he's hostile, he's drawn to your wrath. During your reign, you attack the art community with an unprecedented rage, break the musicians' fingers, blow out the eardrums. Art institutions and artists left without a living room, writers banned books, filmmakers censored movies, sculptors who break statues, theatres, theaters that can't be paid for supporting the resistance to travel... After the coup attempt on July 15th, you put art on the target board, suspended a lot of artists, expelled some of them. One of these artists, Ragıp Yavuz, was suspended from his profession again on September 12th as a fascist juntasin, and had to stay away from his country for thirteen years. You have shut down Kurdish broadcast channels, primarily Jiyan TV and Kurdish children's channel Zarok TV. Did the Kurdish boys do the coup, for God's sake? And you didn't get enough of that, you took advantage of the impact, you turned off the screens of various opposing television channels, such as the Voice of Life, İMC TV, Orda Radio; you made every attempt to turn off the radios. You have locked the doors of many magazines, including the magazine Universal Culture, and dozens of magazines that operate in cultural arts. You boasted of these fascist practices. Your minister told them to open the lock if it was tight. Congratulations, you're already history, just like the September 12 coupgers. It's not that, of course, that you have banned the group's independent Turkey concerts one after the other. You couldn't take your anger, you kept raiding the Idil Cultural Center where they were conducting their work, you organized operations, six of you under arrest, you arrested five people. Because of his stance during the travel resistance, you terminated Levent Grapeman's position at City Theatres. You took revenge by not allowing the halls where he could perform his games. Still, he did not give up his passion for art. Artists are being tagged through social media accounts. Even when you hire artists, you give them jobs based on their social media accounts. There's work if there's beer in reise; no money, no work. That's the summation of the period. Your anger against Behcet Aysan, the writer who was burned to death in the Madimak massacre, must not have stopped, but you also expelled his daughter, Eren Aysan, from the Ministry of Culture. Even human emotions seem to be a burden to you now. Which of your antidemocratic practices should I count? You've got the CEO of State Theaters, which is a celebration of homes. We know him when he's on a state-funded cruise at the international festival. The artist has been more king than king enough to seek out scenes in various provinces, where we hardly know his direction. His latest act was to remove foreign games from the repertoire at State Theatres after the July 15 coup attempt. It will strengthen our national stance by weighing on the local games, as if the strikers had decided to strike after watching Hamlet. When Yasar Kemal received the Great Prize for Culture and Art in your day, Abdullah Gul and Tayyip Erdogan applauded a lot, saying: "The world is a flower garden, the moment you pluck a flower out of that garden, you destroy a color, a richness, and you make the world barren. Art is freedom, art is creativity; art is the foundation of thinking, questioning, producing and sharing; it is the lifeblood of your life, the voice of the peoples of Turkey, the breath of your life. If you drain this vein, you'll turn this country into an uninhabitable desert. Prohibition, censorship, art of one kind, culture, and you will not be dating a tulip, but a desert. After all, it's not the way you're going, it's the way back. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0354par0359	Thank you, Your Creator. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Revolutionary Root will speak last. Here you go, Mr. Root.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0355par0363	Mr. President, I have been promised the budget for the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. President, there is no way that we can accept the injustice and injustice done to you in Germany. I'd like to start by condemning this matter.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0354par0366	Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0355par0367	Congressmans, I would like to briefly share my views on culture with you. Then, as a member of the Tourism Commission and as an Antalya MP, I would like to tell the Minister my thoughts on tourism, and ask them to listen. Now, without cultural and social development, valuable lawmakers, economic development is not possible. Turkey is a country with a great collection of history and culture. The language, religion, faith and origin differences within our national culture are our wealth. The need for advanced democracy is to ensure that these differences live freely in national integrity, but Turkey will not be able to democratise further until it has achieved social and cultural development. A society that doesn't respect art and artists has no respect for itself. The artist is universal. The artist must be creative and privileged, the artist must be free, the artist must be contrary, and it shouldn't bother anyone because the artist is innovative, creative; moreover, revolutionary. A true artist can't be bigoted and conservative. Look, lawmakers, when a man is influenced by a music he hears, a poem he listens to, a book he reads, and he reshapes his life, it's called art, it's called revolution. But if individuals develop, so will society. I'm afraid it's impossible to see the value of art and artists in our country today in the early years of the republic. If Europe had not experienced the Renaissance and Reform, would it have reached today's income level, today's prosperity, today's culture? That's why we need to protect the art and the artist like our eyes. Members of parliament, with a draft law moving to Parliament, more than 50EST art institutions, including the State Theatre, State Opera and Ballet, State Symphony Orchestra, Community of People's Dances and State Multisession Choir, are asked to be shut down. The destruction of these institutions, created by years of hard work and dedication, is the greatest blow to our culture and art lives. Dear lawmakers, we don't want to do politics on tourism. Tourism is especially important to our territory. Tourism and agriculture are a matter above politics to us. Unfortunately, tourism has had its worst moments in 30 years. After 2015 and 2016, 2017 gave no hope. In 2015, 36 million foreign tourists came to Turkey, and in 2016 the number remained around 25 million, and we lost 11 million tourists in the first ten months. In order to save 2017, the number of tourists is required to increase by 40 percent, but unfortunately that is not possible. The sector representatives' biggest concern is that the European countries replace Islamophobia with Turkophobia due to the wrong policies imposed on them, Turkey's assessment of it in the same category as the northern European countries. 1,300 hotels went up for sale in Turkey, 30 hotels went down in debt. The maximum-selling hotel is located in Antalya, which operates mostly on Russian market tourism. The number of hotels for sale in Antalya is 410. 120 of these include five-star hotels. With tens of thousands of employees employed in the industry, 400,000 people are about to lose their bread. European countries are urging their citizens not to go to Turkey on the basis of security, and tourists are not coming out of the hotel. So far, no serious solution has been produced. My first example is, I'm afraid there's been some very distorted developments. The G20 summit, you know, gathered in our country. It was a two-day program, and the money spent on this two-day program is $536 million. The government's bid for the Tourism Action Plan is 255m euros worth of lawmakers. So, 563 million dollars for the two-day program and 255 million liras for the recovery of the billion-dollar industry. The second is the Ministry of Culture and Tourism budget. The budget for the ministry is $3.5 billion. The budget for the head of the Ministry over the Ministry of Religious Affairs is $7 billion. The Diet Budget is twice the Ministry's budget. The money paid to the President on the plane that was said to have been purchased from Tunisia is $79 million, much more than the package for tourism to come out of the crisis. Apparently, the crisis in tourism isn't as important as an airplane. These numbers are a concrete example of how the government evaluates the tourism industry, which is the livelihood of millions, unfortunately. I'd like to give you an example of the distortion of the tourism plan from Manavgat district of Antalya. Mr. Secretary, this is the Ilica district of Manavagat. It is a tourist centre, a paradise corner. There's a decision made by the House before the entire city law was passed. Before the entire city passed its law, they later reserved a area of the village's corporate personality for college, but today a prison project is being held there is being discussed. I call upon you, please, to intervene in this matter. In a tourist settlement, where 450 villas are right next door, where British citizens live most of the time, there are five-star hotels, very short distances, in a very close area to the coast, where, for God's sake, what logic is being held in prison? But I'm asking you, as the Minister of Tourism, to intervene. I mean, there's a lot of places to go to prison, so you can go to prison in a different place. Another thing, you see, tourism is not just the problem of people who make a living with it. Our foreign trade deficit in 2015 is $63 billion, tourism revenue is $31 billion. In other words, half of the foreign trade deficit is covered by tourism. 22% of export revenues come from tourism. Every penny we lose in tourism is also coming out of the pockets of citizens who don't deal with tourism. Mr. President, since time is limited, I'd like to address the subject of EXPO in a few words. EXPO was a very important project for all of us. So it was an image project for Turkey, not just Antalya, but we never found our expectations. Between 5 million and 8 million tourists will come, 1 billion euros in revenues will be a failure. Unfortunately, we have no idea how many countries have joined the EXPO, how many have we financed, how much money has been spent. I've asked a lot of questions about this, but I haven't gotten any answers. In response to this request, which I sent to the Prime Minister, taking advantage of the Information Act, there is a state confidentiality order, and I cannot explain it. I came across an interesting article, such as this. There's no way to figure out what state secret that is. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, will be the solution. You're always talking about problems, but what is your solution? I talked to the leading names of tourism in Antalya and Turkey, and we created solution proposals in six top topics. First of all, let's put this season behind us once, but at least follow a new way to save 2017; let's do a theme, destination-based promotion campaign. Make sure we divide Turkey's image into substructures. We need that, if possible, to divide the area. The reason is that an incident in the East is made to appear to have happened in Antalya, Istanbul, unfortunately in the outside press, and our image is disappearing altogether. Believe me, he's going to make a very serious contribution if we split them up in the area. Fuel support for planes is not enough as it is. It's vital to switch to a person-based system. This contribution should be based on the number of tourists brought in by tourist operators. Fourth: The incentives to classical markets and the incentives to new markets should not be at the same rate, but the 1 euro in new markets will give a serious contribution at the point of choosing a two-euro difference. The Russian market is very important to us. Russia and I find the latest developments to be positive, but they need further improvement. However, Minister, we would like to propose a solution to this issue: in Russia, despite all these developments, citizens have an expectation. Russian citizens expect a statement from the authorities that relations with Turkey are normalising. It may be symbolic, but we benefit from the fact that if the visa of the Russian Federation to Turkish citizens is lifted, it may be symbolic, but it will be data that relations between Turkey and Russia are normalizing. We think it'll bring some serious confidence into the industry. The sixth, the sum of all of them, and most importantly, I think we can all agree on this: tourism is a very important sector, which contributes seriously to the country's economy, so that such an important sector should be run once in a national policy. So together with his opposition and his power, it must be run by a sustainable, national, national tourism policy. As the ministers change, strategies must not change, strategies, methods must not change, sustainable policies as ministers change. If you'll excuse me, as a member of the Tourism Commission, I'm complaining that the Commission has never been assembled, Minister, so from now on, let's get together a lot, and we want to contribute. So we believe that we can contribute to the country's point of origin, especially in this situation in the tourism sector. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to come and tell you all about it. Finally, sir, before I finish my speech, what does this have to do with tourism and culture? But it has a lot to do with it. In the spirit of political courtesy, I tried to explain it, but recently one of the ministers said that this is a very important thing, such as budgets and so on -- one of the minister's ministers said, "Ataturk, a very important thing." Well, now that you're a minister in the Republic of Turkey, a minister should pay attention to every word that comes out of his mouth. Now, we don't expect those heads like that minister to understand Ataturk, but at least try to learn. Ataturk, we don't need to tell you about Ataturk, but I want to share this with you here: Look, this is the decision made by 152 nations of UNESCO, valued MPs. So I want to read to you this text of decision: international understanding and co-operation, a superior person who has struggled for peace, a revolutionary who has made extraordinary revolutions, the first leader to fight against colonialism and expansion, the leader of human rights, the leader of world peace, a unique statesman who doesn't look for color, religion, apartheid all his life; founder of the modern Republic of Turkey. One thing I say to that minister: Ataturk is such a great leader that he ordered his soldier to die in the Battle of Salvation, but he didn't tell the father of any martyrs to lie down and lie down. He said, "Ataturk is the master of the village." But he didn't tell any peasant to take his mother. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit04spe0356par0388	Thank you, Mr. Root. I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0356par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Now, the first word, in favor of the person, belongs to Kahramanmarash MP Mehmet İlker Çiçil. Here you go, Mr. Çimil. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0357par0009	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in the fifth round of the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill Bill Talks. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation. Also, on July 15th, I give my condolences to our martyrs who wrote the epic democracy and gave their lives in defense of our homeland, and to their relatives and our nation. In addition, I pray that Mevlit Kandili, whom we will understand tomorrow, will bring blessings to our country and all the world of Islam. Today, December 10th, the day of the universal declaration of human rights, is celebrated as Human Rights Day. When we look at the geography that we are in today, we bear witness to the loss of even the most natural and fundamental right of human life, just as on July 15th, the killings and massacres of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) have been committed for many years. This is an example of the bloodshed that has been spilled around us, at our borders, in Syria and Iraq, in Egypt, in Libya, in Arakana, or in the land of Islam around the world. There the children are slaughtered, there the women are slaughtered, there the Muslims are slaughtered. It should be known that our operations against terrorist activities within our country will continue with determination, regardless of the border or deportation. In the same way, we will continue to be the voice of the oppressed countries around the world, and we will continue to help us financially and spiritually. Again, before the Mevlit Kandili, which we will understand the year of the arrival of our Prophet, who was sent as a mercy to the world, I believe that our high religion and the Holy Prophet of Islam are the most important indicator of our approach to human rights and freedoms as one of the world's oldest declarations of human rights, considered by the Prophet of the Prophet for all mankind a thousand and four hundred years ago. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have performed important tasks in the recent July 15 coup and occupation attempt, as we all know, of the Department of Interior, Security General Directorate, the General Command, which we have completed their talks on their budgets today. Even though our notorious institutions have not again prevented us from spraying on the weapons of this great nation's taxes, they have not stopped selling and betraying their homes, but have also written an important epic by our discreet soldiers and police who have fought side by side with our heroic Turkish nation, who have come down to the square to claim their national will and democracy. The glorious Turkish nation, who have ruled this land for centuries, will never forget this betrayal; nor will the Omar Halisdemirs, who have written the July 15th epic, nor the Erol Olçaks, who have rented their minds, undermining our national and spiritual values. Today, praise be to God, our law enforcement forces have become even more powerful by cleaning up the traitors inside of them and bringing our intelligent, patriotic young people into their system. Our country will continue to fight with its nation, its military and its police, hand in hand, heart in hand, every network of betrayal within us and in our region, no matter what its name. Instead of doing politics in the direction of democracy, I'd also like to stress from this grand bench that the political sense of politics, which points to the pits and mountains, which has been trying to turn our brotherly nation against each other for centuries, is no longer respected and not wanted. AK PARTY has been one of the most important parameters that we care about in our governments. With the amendment that we will soon bring before our nation, there will be a stronger, more secure, more progressive system, where our unitary state structure will become stronger and will take its place as a strong and influential country in its region. Our Ministry of Interior, our National Ministry of Defence, our Ministry of Culture and Tourism today, with my opinion that the seven institutions that we've been interviewing will increase their service activities in favour of the budget, wishing that the budget of 2017 be better, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0358par0023	Thank you, Mr. Çimil. Congressmans, we have now come to talk on behalf of the government. First, the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Süleyman Noble, will speak. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0359par0029	Mr. President, I'd like to start by wishing that both our government and our Interior Ministry's 2017 budget would be a blessing. I hope that our work can meet everyone's ideals and dreams for our country, for our nation, for our future. Again, at the beginning of my words, for the independence of this country, for the brotherhood of this country, I express our gratitude and gratitude for those of us who have sacrificed our martyrs for the growth, development, freedom and freedom of this country without blinking. In addition, a few days ago in Germany, we condemn the position of Mrs. Ayşe Nur Nur Nurkaplı, a representative of each and every one of us, who described herself as civilized, who did not leave his definition of basic rights and freedom to anyone and was not in line with diplomatic courtesy, but was not in line with human rights Day. Again, we ask our president to make an official apology on this matter.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0360par0032	Thank you very much, Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0359par0033	Today is one of the historic days. I don't want to make this personal, but I've been in politics since I was a kid. In the 1976s, 1977s, 1978s, 1979s, when I was eight or nine years old, my father took me to county agencies. I grew up on those dusty boards, and I've seen pretty much everything. In politics, I had one goal: Turkey has a claim and must complete it. This claim is not just an argument that can be defined by political parties. Perhaps today it's a bet that will make everyone listen to what the world is suffering and what he's saying. Yeah, the parliamentary system took us for a while. Thanks to God, whether we fail or fail, Turkey has tried to do something under the roof of this Parliament and within the parliamentary system. But our claim and our ideal had always been that we needed a strong system to compete with the world, a strong system not to trip over our feet. Hopefully, our nation will be accepted and Turkey will have the opportunity to meet a new system that it claims and deserves. If we take matters from person to person, take matters from personality, put them into a fully rooted system, we can give the rights of this geography with a completely better point, and we can have the opportunity to bring our people to a day of peace and light. May God bless you. We express our gratitude and gratitude for our country, for our nation, for everyone who strives for the people. I hope it's good luck and good luck. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Honourable lawmakers, we all see together a 21st century in which information, transport, technology, dynamics have become decisive, their lifestyles have changed, humanity flows into cities, and new challenges, threats have arisen, existing threats have changed shape, even hybridized. The state-based and bipolar, military-driven, cold war-era threat perception has been replaced by a new battle formation where the battle of power has been staged. This new order appears to be the leading actor of terrorism, international competition, energy corridors, economics, tourism, education, and security policy is becoming dangerously mediated today because it has the potential to directly influence education, and under the influence of all these factors, security policy is rising throughout the world today. This, of course, is a natural political and sociological reflex. But the critical point here is to establish a balance that won't drown democracy while organizing a relationship with these out-of-state actors. The choice of the world's dominant forces at this point is to try to return to the 19th century sense of global governance, but it is worrying for us, for the world and for mankind. Turkey is directly dealing with this picture and its global insecurity, as it has increased the geopolitical and geostrategic importance of its geography over the course of a thousand years. On the one hand, the massive wave of Syrian-based migration is both transit and target country, and on the other hand, DEAŞ, YPG, KCK and PKK have shown the obligation for each of us to make a new security definition of terrorist activities. Dear lawmakers, this picture compels us to read Turkey's security situation correctly. The domestic security infrastructure we have is an infrastructure for the fight against the PKK, while today our threat numbers have increased and differed. Inside there are ▪, CK and PKK, outside the PKK's extension YPG and others. Thus, Turkey must increase its security capacity. And when you add DEASH to that, of course, our responsibility goes further. Turkey must be able to establish its own security project at a time when the dissolution of international troops and systems is being discussed. The PKK threatens no one but us. The DEA is threatening us first. Again he threatens no one but us. That is why it is imperative that we implement a new concept of proactive security in terms of technological, cultural, economic, political, military and police that prevent the threat from being eliminated beyond our borders and our national interests, and our government is often taking steps in this direction. Operation Firat Shield is the result of this approach today. Especially in some of our provinces, the activities of the PKK's terrorist organization, which carried on its treacherous acts, were not limited to armed actions, but rather to pressure our citizens by ethnicism, to manipulate public tenders, to poison our young people by dealing drugs, to produce public service, and to openly betray this state and nation. The organization, which has been revealed directly in its nudity, has been the custodian of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) with its key interference in the state mechanisms, and has clearly included PKK (PKK) in its plan for action before and after July 15th, but on the night of July 15th, our nation has also broken the game. Not only does he own democracy, national will, but on July 15th, this great nation, this great nation, has claimed independence and brotherhood. The social mobilization that sets up the tanks is seen to be not only limited to that night, but also to the economy. The recent developments in the economic front have made it clear that our nation's support for Mr. President's call is not a setback in the spirit of July 15th. Mr. President, Turkey, which closed the 20th century with chronicized problems such as high inflation, economic crises, low export figures, insufficient infrastructure, bureaucratic and military custody, has managed to remove the vast majority of these problems from the country's agenda, thanks to the political stability of the EC PARTI administrations since 2002. As a result of strong political power and stability, both military and bureaucratic custody have been eliminated by laws based on the rule of rule of law. Today's step is actually the most important indicator of this mentality, of this understanding, of this nation's demand. As a result of democratic reforms, expression, defence and education in the main language, the removal of DGM, the recognition of individual application to the Constitutional Court, confidence has been restored between the state and citizens, and our democracy has been strengthened. Mr. President, our very valuable deputies, based on the basic rights and freedoms that we can sum up in the face of what I'm trying to frame above in this context -- both in our geography and in the face of developments in the country -- in the face of our nation's best interests and future -- in order to ensure our public rights and freedoms -- in order to ensure the safety of our border, coastal and landwaters -- are working to establish effective border management and immigration policies, co-ordinating public services, raising the service standards of local governments, providing them with a healthy presentation and supporting civil society. In all our work and relations with our citizens, we have also adopted the rule of law, justice and mercy, respect for human rights, transparency, accountability, commitment to ethical values, participation, rapid, quality service and the balance of freedom-security. Our esteemed lawmakers, of course, I would like to state that we are in a very important period of breaking history, and we are not the ones who described this period of breaking today, but the world describes this period of breaking. When we land just south of us, we see together what many countries actually plan there, what they want to intervene in Turkey. While we were here on the night of July 15th, we all know that while you, our lawmakers, put up a fight for democracy here, a website from the United States shared the President of the Republic of Turkey's plane route mercilessly, and this Parliament, against all that understanding, Turkey, our people, our people, our people fought a great battle against all that understanding together. On the one hand, on the other, the PKK, on the one hand, the KCK... we're MPs here, we're not outside the law, we're in the law; we're not out of democracy, democracy is not a stepping stone for us, it's not an instrument. Democracy is the name of a process where we have to follow its rules, but democracy has a sensitivity, its sensitivity is this: democracy is a system that has the ability to be manipulated within all systems. So small groups have the chance to come together, coordinate well, create a good technology, a good communication ability, a good scripting ability, and manipulate democracy as they please. This is one of the most important gaps in democracy. Of course we have to know that when we're doing politics. We just had a conversation here. Of course we'll be criticized, we've always been criticized. Criticization is one of the most important processes of democracy, but it's slander, but -- I want to make it very clear -- is lie and -- again I want to highlight -- slander language, betrayal is also one of the processes that we cannot tolerate; it's very clear. Here the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not outside of democracy and law. This Congress has decided here. What's the verdict? Yes, he's decided to remove immunity for a number of lawmakers. What does that mean? So, if there are lawmakers who are guilty or there are lawmakers who are alleged to be guilty, this will go to trial. Neither you, nor you, nor you, nor anyone in this House, are obliged to abide by it. Well, I'd like to say that in all of this, a person who is the co-chair of a political party, in particular, who comes here by the vote of the nation, shows an understanding that will object to all of these decisions, and says here: I will not go to court, let them come. No matter how they look for me, whether they take me or bring me there, I will not go there, and no friend of mine will go to court. Why are we here? Why are we making laws here? Why are we talking about this budget here? So, if we say this, if we put it out there, what answer do we have to our nation today -- tomorrow -- who expects us to be within our own laws, and what rules, what laws, and what understanding does that nation go on with? Where does an understanding that does not bear such responsibility bring Turkey to the point of trying to push politics away from just a number of manipulative processes? Let's switch places, you come; if the same thing happens to you, what political party will he do if it happens to you? You will either give up your ability to be a state or your ability to be a state, and you will have an understanding that everyone, wherever they want to be, can present himself in any way they want, and can follow any rule they want, or you will surrender, or you will fulfill the requirements of the laws, the rules, the Constitution, and the decisions made here. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) No one gets offended today. I'd like to express it very sadly. What happened in Cizre, my friends? The state has committed murder in Cizre, which the morning speaker described. Who did he kill? He doesn't have a name. Who are they? He doesn't have a name. His name's in parentheses. Please, let's not play hide-and-seek. In this country, our whole nation knows everything in a clear state. I brought pictures here. Where did they talk about? From Mardin. That's Nusaybin, which MP can defend it? Why did these people give us authority? Why did these people send us here? Why do these people want our jobs so they can line them up over there? So, how do you defend them? How can you defend that man? Who's this? You should know that this not only shoots the soldier there, the policeman there, the ranger there, the future of this country, the future of this country, the future of the Kurdish children there, the Highova Airport there, the unintended Silvan Dam, and the fertility of the land there. Yes, our job is to liquidate it, we have to liquidate it. We want theaters to be played there, we want our children to go to movies there, we want our children to be the best athletes in the world, we want them to study at the best universities. We want Turkey to be a rich and prosperous country, with science and terrorism, with the knowledge of the future of this country against those who built the universities in terror, and we have no other account, and we have no account with anyone. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In addition to all of this, I want to tell you that when you talk about politics, do you ever think about Aydın Müştü, what was the problem with Aydın Müçüp? Just doing politics. He had a gun? No, I don't. What was the problem with our beautiful brother Ahmet Buddhak? I went to Ahmet Buddhak's house, God's witness, and sometimes I saw the fear in those children's eyes, that we might finish this Kandil. You're talking about the woman, aren't you? His mother says to a child, "Son, please don't go out there, they will kill you as they killed your father. We are people of heart, I have not left my heart to PKK, I have not left my heart to terrorists, God knows that we will never give up this conscience and this mind, but we will never give up on those terrorist organizations. They'll see what we do, and they'll see how we do it. Do we know what Aydın Müçük said when he buried his daughter's father? I'm going to study theology school, and I know what it's worth. I will teach them our religion and beauty and all the values of this geography. Yesterday I was in Van, three days ago I was in Diyarbakır, and I was in Mardin. If we had done wrong... that man shakes my hand in Tyre: "If you love God, you are on the right path. " We politically know what people tell us. Before the events of October 6th, 3, 4, 5th of October, one side of Haqkari said, "If you love God as a risky area, which he has determined to be the risky area of the region, one of them leans down and says, "What would you be doing here?" A shopkeeper says, "What would you do if you give us money?" The other, a mother, a mother, is a witness of God, I have to travel alone in Highova. From June 7th to November 1st to November 1st, about 200-250th, what would you do to help us, what should we do, what should we do, what should we should do, what should we do, what should we do, what should we do, what should we do?" A woman came and said, "They're trying to take my son away from me. I don't want to send my son to the mountain. Thousands of children under the age of 18 have gone to the mountain, under the age of 18. These are our children. These aren't other people's children, and none of them belong there. It's not defensible. It's posed with an AK, and it's expressed. Look, there's nothing to defend this, Mr. Sýrýyya, it's not our job. We're non-gun people. AK is for security. Let's say the AK is the name of the process that the army, AKlek, has set up to prevent this nation from confronting the AK, in order to leave us in peace and safety and to confront it. It won't do us any good.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0361par0049	We spoke two minutes ago, two minutes ago. Now, like this...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0359par0050	It won't do us any good. Behind it is the word that we speak. And there is only one word for those of you who go up there and place the AK in it, whether you know it or not, that they may be unjust. Look, these places don't applaud you. They've taken it easy. I want to make it very clear what is it? We've taken over the municipalities. We didn't confiscate the municipalities. The governor of the state was there, and the governor of the state will rule in accordance with the rules, laws, and law, and will continue to rule. I'll tell you one thing: from these municipalities -- you and I both know -- over 6,000 trenches have been dug. Who dug these trenches? Where did they get their logistics? Who did it, who did it, and how could he show it? I'd like to say again: here, now, this is the entrance to Diyarbakır Hani district. That's where Ahmet Türk took over the municipality in Mardin, where Hani was a month and a half ago, and now this is his entrance. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, I want to say again: this is the way to Diyarbakır Airport, the old and the new one. Who's that for? It's done there to our people who want to go to this airport, no one else. There it is for the children of this nation, and the children of this land. Here, what is this place? Mardin Dargate. What is this Mardin Dargezit? Here, look, there's the road in front of the house, and here's the road in front of the house. That's the square, that's the square, that's the square. The service goes there, and it will continue to go there. This is our children again, in Mardin Dargateit. There, the parks, there, the front of the houses, there, the peace they seek. We're always putting together an understanding that can make this happen. Again, I'll show you a picture. The other day, Derik went to the groundbreaking ceremony of a school where our beloved Mardin MP's father laid the foundation of a great Alice. I didn't know that was it. From that day on, I'm burning up inside. Don't let anyone think this roasting will pass, let no one think it will. That boy, Muhammad Fatih... Now I'll tell you something: I went there, there's a 25-year-old girl judge lady, a girl, Mrs. Ayþe Nur. Aren't you afraid? I said, "I'll be a martyr." She's 25. She's a big girl with a big heart. There's a 28-year-old prosecutor. Almost twenty or twenty or five days before them, one of them was martyred. It doesn't suit him either. He's trying to change her into something else. That didn't work out for you, not a moment ago, not at all. Those words were unbecoming from behind, both under the roof of the House and by someone who had inspired the other world. Do you know what he's done, you see here: I don't know about the Return to the Village and Rehab Project. I don't know about Derik today; my closest friends in Istanbul, the people who are with me when I'm in trouble in life are Derikites, my Derekli friends, I've talked to them many times, I've thought about Derek. They all claim that Derek is the motherland of the olives, that's what they've always said. You know what this Muhammad Safiturk did? He went and built an olive shop there. These are our facts. People work there, and he made his presentation so beautifully that you think that with glass and presentation from the most beautiful factories of Pashabahçe, they provide you with a mind that can turn this into an economy. Just like that? No. He's done 20 miles of asphalt there in a month. Just like that? He brought a coach from Of district of Tripoli, where he worked hard to keep those children from tomorrow's future, to make them the best of the football team. It wasn't just him, it was a lot of stuff. Why did they martyr him? Because... I want to say something, because it's said here, it's said that poverty. What poverty? Yes, you condemn them to poverty. We do, huh? In the morning and evening, the President of this country will make efforts to build that Highova Airport, where he will be able to build dams... friend, I - you know well there - went to Bestler Creeks, where they martyred six of our children in the eyes of the day. Those children were not expecting borders there, for years those children waited there to ensure that the Şırnak-Van road, one of the most important points of Şırnak's development, could be built, to ensure that it could be built, was to be reunited with that region, economic activation, and the brotherhood in that region. Why were they martyred? To keep that road from being built. Who condemns the people of this region to poverty? Who condemns whom to poverty? I want to make a point, and I want to say, here, of course, with all of this, I'm going to show you another picture, an important photograph, a very important photograph. We know all about the conversation after that. In Diyarbakir, in this bombing attack, on November 4th, we know all the talks and what happened after the killings of civilians, and we know what happened; we know who claimed responsibility, why it was done, how it was done, what the target was, and what it was supposed to be. How do you account for that? What was the sin of these children, what was the sin of these people, and how will these people survive the trauma? And I want to say again, you're talking about a lot of things, you know, you're saying that there was a solution process... the process that we created as a process of democratization. I'll tell you again: we, the entire Assembly, no one wants a nation in this country that is haunted by a terrorist organization to set foot into tomorrow. We want him to get the hell off our borders. The Prime Minister of a country here says: "I drink even if it's poison." You know very well, we all know how the Kurdish issue brings in politicians, how it brings them in, how it's liquidating, what conflicts it's involved in, and so does this Parliament, but there's been a sneaky plan. Let me tell you something, I certainly don't see some of you in this plan, and I don't think you have any.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0362par0067	Carry on, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0363par0068	You can add from us, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0364par0069	Yes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0365par0071	Maybe that's the key, maybe Turkey will see that number for the first time. Look, I'll tell you something, you know: no, the martyrdom of our children in Şanliurfa... we know the writing of Bese Hozat, and all the processes that others have performed. Don't let anyone fool us, let no one fool us. We know all the instructions we're given here. You know, the peace process for you... there's no such peace march. A nation does not bring peace within itself, but a nation puts on brotherhood within itself, puts on unity, puts on unity. What's that? What is this, if you love God? They took them to the mountain. How can you argue that as a congressman? 2011, 658 people; 2012, 611 people; 2013, 2,519 people, preparing; 2014, 5,312 people. Don't we know why they took these? Some of them we're going to take. Some of them they're going to take, some of them they're going to take, and this is our territory, and no one's going to be able to get in here anymore. If you're going to get a job... we'll do this if you don't vote for our people there, we'll do this to people who've abused their employment anxiety, the future anxiety, and they've abused their nationalism reflexes, and in the end, 3.572... you know, those 2015 elections where they were bleeding out of the taps before June 7th, the choices where people were threatened one by one by one, the choices in the villages, and we'll do this, if you don't vote, we'll do this. Have the people of the southeast not seen the compasses? I'm the son of this nation, after seeing a compass in my own country, and the way my country was going to lay its hands on the people of my country, God is a witness that on that day we swore to fight them to the death, nothing more than to fight them to the death. With terrorists... everyone has a right to politics, everyone will show their political rights. I'd like to bring you another explanation. Nothing, we'll get you out of this mess. Don't worry, Ahmet Turk is comfortable now. Many borough heads and mayors, each of them in custody...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0366par0074	Then it's up to you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0365par0075	My head's on the line, if you have it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0366par0076	If it's too comfortable, go ahead!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0365par0077	I'm watching you. In this country, if we were afraid of these threats, we'd run away like someone else on July 15th, and we wouldn't come into this House; we don't have that fear. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Come on, we're going there, we're going there all the time, so tell your dads to do something. We're all going, our deputies are going, our friends are going. The death of Enlightenment has given us courage, you know, just so you know, and I want to express one more thing...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0367par0080	Is the Minister talking to us or to the General Assembly?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0368par0081	Congressmans, please, we're listening.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0365par0082	Don't worry, dear MPs...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0368par0084	You have the right to answer, you'll give it to me later.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0369par0085	He keeps coming back to us.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0365par0086	I'm going this way, too, don't worry. One more thing...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0370par0088	You can't just yell and...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0365par0089	Don't worry, I'm expressing my last words.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0371par0091	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0365par0092	Don't worry about a thing.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0371par0094	Go ahead, please, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0365par0095	It's not a safety policy. On the one hand, with the package that Mr. Prime Minister has set up in the centers of charm, on the one hand, with our youth policies... our Minister of Youth and Sports will make a carpeting field to every point of Hakkari.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0372par0096	Why haven't you done it yet?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0365par0097	He's doing it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0372par0098	Why haven't you done it yet?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0373par0099	Did you get it done? You burned it, you destroyed it!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0365par0100	He's done it so far, and he's gonna do it from now on, so don't worry. And I'll tell you again: on the one hand, with our development policies, with our social policies, on the one hand, our college students' hopes for tomorrow, Derik.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0374par0102	Don't mention Derek's name, I'm deeply disturbed.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0365par0103	I asked him, "What do you want to be?" They were standing there, we opened the school together. One of them said, "I want to be the first teacher of literature." He said, "I want to be the teacher of literature."
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0375par0104	Wasn't there a governor, a governor, by now?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0365par0105	So the terrorist organization hasn't broken their hopes, they still have crumbs in them, and there's a great deal of hope. When we said, "Well, what do you want to be?" he said, "I want to be a nurse." If you saw every one of those girls, they would stretch out their hands so beautifully from the future, but not like the ones who put their hands on the gun. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I want you to know, it's not just safety policies, it's not just these that we know that can be solved. Together, with the understanding of this House, the national will here, these beautiful pieces of land... It's not a coincidence, the late Adnan Menderes said on his way to Mush Airport:
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0376par0109	There wasn't an airport.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0377par0110	There was no Mush Airport during Adnan Menderes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0365par0111	When I see this Mush... my faith...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0376par0112	Go on with the mush.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0378par0113	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0365par0114	We'll do that, too. We'll do that, too, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0379par0116	You haven't worked at all today.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0380par0117	They mislaid the script.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0365par0118	We do it for you, you try to tear it down, we do it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When he came down to Mush, he said, "My God, when I see this plain of Mush, my faith is renewed. How great are you. When our beloved President descends to Mush, years later, perhaps he is unaware that Adnan Menderes has said this, he says, "Is such a good spring so good in a city, so much so far on a plain, so good in a country?" It comes from the love of a country, nothing but understanding. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My final sentence, I want you to know that no one has to worry, that we are not going to let that Kandil (Kandil) stand there. We would like to express once again our sovereignty and our right to our presence, to our presence, to show to the world that there will be no constant interference from there, and that we will soon show it to the world here, under the roof of Congress. In doing all of this, let our great Assembly know, Mr. President, that in accordance with his instructions, our Prime Minister, his determination, and the honorable deputies of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our government, but as important as all of these, no one has any doubt that we will be able to achieve the fight against terrorism, not only to fight terrorism, but to fulfill our country's claim to the futures. We'll be one of the world's top 10 major states. Perhaps we won't be under the roof of this House, but others will. May God grant us something to do with their prayers. I hereby salute you with my deepest love and respect and respect. I hope it's good luck and good luck.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0381par0126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0382par0127	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0381par0128	Mr. Commander, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0383par0129	How dare you, Secret?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0382par0130	Mr. Secretary put in my name and made a false statement about the AKs.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0381par0131	Here you go, two minutes. [[Interference between EC PARTI and HDP rows]] Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0384par0134	With what face? With what face?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0385par0135	My friends, the Minister has said what is necessary.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0381par0136	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0386par0140	It's enough for all of you if we give you the intelligence of our face's whiteness. (Applause from HDP rows, AK PARTY rows) That's enough for all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0381par0141	Mr. Leader...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0386par0142	Wait a minute, wait a minute. We'll talk, you'll listen.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0381par0143	Don't use harsh and hurtful words, please.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0386par0144	We put our hands under the stone, what did you do?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0381par0145	Please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0386par0146	Is my time starting, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0381par0147	But now, we're starting your time, you're insulting, arguing, you're running out of time...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0386par0148	Let's go. Who am I insulting? If you want to get him talking, let's get him talking. Please, please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0381par0149	You're doing it, but I'm listening. I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0386par0150	Start my time. I'll start.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0381par0151	One and a half minutes, over.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0387par0152	It wouldn't be that biased. On his way to the stand, he says.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0386par0153	I regret that this conversation will be distorted by the Minister in less than two hours. That's what I'm saying here: we -- the National Security Council -- there are military representatives -- we went to crisis regulations, secret crisis regulations, we spent days and nights in shelters under the Kandil and the AKs, arguing for days and nights. I have made these efforts for all the peoples, for the sake of peace, freedom, justice, and a great prosperous country. I'm responsible for all of them. I'm signing all of them today. Forty years of indictments have been filed, and another four hundred years have been held, it's my name that steps back an inch. We did it all for peace, all for the children of this country. Here's the problem, Mr. Secretary: A Home Secretary can't do 20 percent of the budget talk here by returning to us, and here's the problem.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0388par0157	That's what you did with your speech. You got it in tech, you got it in Internal Affairs, you got it in Culture, you got it in Internal Affairs.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0386par0158	Here's the problem: What do you say to the oppressed and the Kurd, for a moment, to put aside the armed dimension of the matter? There's nothing there.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0389par0159	The Brotherhood.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0386par0160	Brotherhood. You call it... the greatest battle between brothers. Look, your spokesman said that at the time.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0390par0161	Mayor, if you interfere, even we can't hear.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0386par0162	You're saying we're brothers, you're little brothers. Kurds are our wealth. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're the main money, they're the interest. You won't get anywhere with that kind of understanding.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0391par0166	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0392par0167	Turk-Kurdish is a brother, the PKK is a bitch!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0393par0168	Yeah, drop the slogan.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0394par0169	Peace seekers are here, here.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0395par0171	Congressmans, Mr. Commander General has asked a question, but I don't quite know where it came from, but to me, it's a brotherhood from the left. I agree with that answer with all my heart.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0393par0173	Oh, Mayor, why are you acting like this? Why are you being so biased, Mayor? You're being too biased.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0395par0174	I'll take it if joining the peace is biased.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0393par0175	I don't mean that.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0395par0176	If I'm going to be biased against the Brotherhood, please. [[Applause from the EC PARTY ranks, noise from HDP rows]] Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0396par0179	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has returned to our group and expressed many issues. I'd like to express a few things from the taunts. By looking at us, you're talking about the woman, and you're talking about the woman.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0395par0180	Here you go, two minutes. Who's gonna talk? Mr. Commander, two minutes. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Congressmans, please don't disturb our silence.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0397par0186	If a conversation can't be heard, a two-minute conversation can't be tolerated...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0398par0188	Don't insult me.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0397par0189	Here's his experience... Mr. Secretary, when we were talking here, we didn't say a word, and we were curious to hear what he had to say.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0399par0192	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0397par0193	But look, you can't stand a two-minute conversation, it's a shame in the first place. Now let me pick up where I left off. Civil politics is as legitimate as any of you, as legitimate as any of you, who have worked with more troubled circumstances than you... I'd like to say a few things about immunity and detention: our objection is not to abolish immunity. Mr. Minister says: "The state will call this and you won't come." He asked all political parties one by one, what would you do if you were there?" The answer is very simple, Mr. Secretary. Politicians should have a last name. Not much more than that, a year ago, you said, "We don't know those courts." We don't know those courts. We didn't even say, "It's our objection to this removal of immunity." Two: What is interesting is that we've released the statistics of the proceedings against us, the prosecutors and judges you have suspended today with the KHK, and the prosecutors who have held a trial against us as well. If only you could tell us what is lawful for you and what is forbidden for us, so that we may know. That's our objection. We have a clear head, a high head, and we're ready to settle all accounts wherever there is a fair trial. If so, we're short, and the price is on our heads. But there's no fair trial. Look, there's some lawyer friends of yours, let them tell you. There's no reason not to go to trial, especially in our law, to arrest us.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0400par0199	Mr. Commander, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0401par0200	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0400par0201	It's time for Mr. Sky. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0401par0203	Mr. President, I'd like to file two matters, if I may.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0400par0204	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0401par0205	Now, Mr. Home Secretary has not responded to the following issues expressed by the Republican People's Party Group: of course the state will fight terrorism, should do so, should not tolerate it. But there have been times when the government tolerates terrorism. For example, on 16 September 2015, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said: "In the process of solutions, of course, our governors were not seriously involved in operations against these terrorist organizations, according to our instructions to them. How long will we continue to ignore these actions? Why did the Minister of the Interior refrain from explaining the phase of those acts of terror? I'd like to make another statement: Diyarbakır Deputy Chief of Police -- not to mention his name here -- said on January 18, 2016: The terrorist organization is strengthened in the process of solving things; intelligence units are aware that they are dug, weapons are stored, that the organisation is not leaving the city and the countryside. Mr. Secretary, shouldn't you be answering these? These are the questions that remain open. Mr. President, one last sentence.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0402par0208	Please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0401par0209	At the beginning of his speech, the Minister of the Interior used the exact words: "Yes, the parliamentary system took us for a while. Something's been tried, whether we're limping or missing. Now we have the opportunity to meet a new system that will compete with the world. Mr. President, Mr. Home Secretary, on the night of July 15th, we fought under the bombs here, we were all there, side by side, under the bunkers. We wrote this memo in those bunkers. Of course, there's been a coup attempt, whether it's going to happen or not. All the parties are struggling so the coup doesn't take place, but we don't know what our fate will be in the morning. At that moment, everyone is holding each other with hope, shoulder to shoulder, and writing this statement, it is said that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is emphasised on the parliamentary regime at a time when we do not know what will happen in the darkness, at the end of the morning, on the night of the coup, when we do not know what will happen. It's been five months. The coup is averted, now's the chance, eh, this is the opportunity, is it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0403par0212	Mr. Sky, can you please wrap it up?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0401par0213	Oh, yeah? Is that supposed to be the point?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0404par0214	You can ask him that in questions.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0401par0215	You're going to talk about the importance of parliamentary democracy when you're fighting side by side that day, and at the point that comes today, let's keep it on the side, it's another system now. You can't be convincing.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0405par0217	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0406par0219	Mr. President, in his orator talk, I find it hurtful to say that their faces are enough to support our group...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0405par0220	Mr. Mush, I can't hear you. If it's quieter, guys...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0406par0221	In his speech, he used a hurtful and abusive statement to our group that their faces would be sufficient for the influx and the zakat of the influx.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0405par0222	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0406par0225	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Justice and Development Party, came to the House from a group of 317 people. One has been elected Parliament Speaker and is now serving, we have a group of 316, and this party is signing under projects that will carry Turkey into the 21st century. Look, 1 percent of all of you are not equal to one of our 316 deputies over there, so you have to eat at least 40 meals. (AK PARTY, applause from CHP and HDP rows) Because this group has never been involved in a terrorist funeral, terrorist...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0405par0226	Congressman, Mr. Mush, please don't use hurtful words about each other, please.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0407par0227	We'll all get a say in this.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0406par0228	Mr. President, if there's anything you don't want to hear, you're not going to express it. This group has demonstrated itself in the fight against terrorism, and has not shown up at the funeral of six-year-old martyrs who killed six-month-old children in the womb of the mother, as well as a live bomb in the heart of Ankara. Those who show it can't talk about a hundred raids, because in those who do this, they can't have a concept called face-whites, it's a disgrace, there's no face-staining. Likewise, dear lawmakers, look, from the day we arrived in Parliament, we supported all the steps taken at the legal point of politics, and do you know what this group has been clearly opposed to our Home Secretary's assessments just now? Terrorist activity. You've never been able to deny the rights of the PKK, of the terrorist organization against you once, and you've never once been able to object to them, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0408par0230	Then I'm not entitled.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0406par0231	They've never been able to say that from this stand. You know why they can't say?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0408par0232	Why?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0406par0233	Because they're the ones who pull the strings, whenever they want.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0408par0234	Who's pulling your strings?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0406par0235	Those who say that...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0409par0236	Because we're not talking about what you want.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0406par0237	...they can't tell us about a hundred raids or legal politics.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0409par0239	We don't have to say what you said, we have our own politics.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0410par0240	He also mentioned my name and said that the PKK was pulling the strings.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0411par0241	Are you going to speak for the group?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0410par0242	No, it's for me. Mr. Commander... said.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0412par0243	And I want it for myself.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0413par0244	Yeah, we all do.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0414par0245	Group... there's no such rule.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0415par0246	I don't know about the band.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0416par0247	I mean, they're both demanding separate bullying on behalf of their own and on behalf of their group, so this has got to stop.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0414par0248	Wait a minute, wait a minute, Mr. Commander, wait a minute. You have a group vice president. On behalf of your group, your group vice president speaks.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0416par0250	Yeah, one exception, okay.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0417par0251	Now, he spoke the name of Mr. Leader.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0414par0252	I'm talking to Mr. Commander Demirel, please.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0417par0253	We also promise on behalf of the group...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0414par0254	Mr. Commander, please repeat your reason for speaking.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0418par0255	What did I tell you?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0419par0256	Mr. orator said that the PKK had the rope and that we had not once objected to this declaration, noting my name.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0418par0257	I sang the band, the whole band.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0420par0258	Okay, here you go. Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0421par0260	Each and every one of us...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0422par0261	We'll take one word at a time.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0423par0263	Now, first of all, let's get to the matter of face-to-face. As I was coming here -- I'm a man of style -- he has no face to speak, no face to speak. Your ranks were spoken of, and it was said in response to him. Now, I'm gonna get back to this photo business. The ministers can find it here with a quick two-minute investigation, and yesterday I gave it to Mr. Attorney General. Now, I'm telling you again -- this rally was a matter of investigation, which ended up being acquitted by the Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. After that, there was a criminal complaint against me. I don't want to name the person who was found. The same person -- I went online, I did some research, and there's only one person in the case -- who's still in charge -- is involved in the scandal of the Inegöl National Education Director's share of Ataturk -- I don't know what happened. This friend of ours seems to be a fanatic. The Ingegöl Court rejected his involvement in the scandal sharing of Ataturk on the grounds that he was not directly harmed by the crime. I don't know what's wrong with me, I don't know what's the difference between him and this, and he's agreed, but I'm on trial from that case without arrest. That's the thing. Those who organized that rally were all detained and acquitted. I repeat our insistence on peace, our will: our power is not in anyone's hands. The story of everyone here is known to the whole country.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0424par0269	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0423par0270	We're the people who come from the struggle for democracy, the struggle for labor. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0424par0273	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0425par0274	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0424par0275	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0425par0276	Mr. President, let's just say that outside of our group, Mr. Mush has made a statement, referring to all lawmakers as well as all individuals. I asked for the records, we'll look at it again, but all our friends have the right to answer here.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0424par0277	You're the vice president of the group, Congressman, Mr. Demirel.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0425par0278	We'll answer on behalf of the group, but we'd like you to promise our friends...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0426par0279	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0427par0280	On behalf of the group, the vice president of the group can respond to all the bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0425par0281	...because all of his friends spoke in the words of the accused. So, the reports will come, we'll answer the reports, but...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0428par0282	Mr. Demirel, when I promised the members of the group to be bullied here, I told the vice presidents that each group was played one by one by one by its own honor or pride...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0429par0283	He meant all of us.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0428par0284	...to the vice president of the group, or we will. We'll do the same for you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0430par0285	Yes, Mayor. We'll get it for the group, but Mr. Mush has to apologize here.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0431par0286	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0430par0287	If he doesn't apologize, the reports will come, and we'll all file charges one by one.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0432par0288	That's your business, I can't tell him anything.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0430par0289	Because this is an insult to all of us...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0432par0290	Are you guys gonna talk now?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0430par0291	Yeah, we'll talk about it on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0432par0292	Two minutes, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0430par0293	But once we have the minutes, we'll repeat them on behalf of all our friends.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0433par0294	I'm returning that rope to him, he told me.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0432par0295	Mr. Lightning, please... Mr. Demirel, come in, you answer. Are you going to answer me because of the bullying?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0434par0297	Yes, we will.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0432par0298	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0434par0299	Miss Flitz will give it to me.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0432par0300	Here you are, Mr. Filiz Kerestecioğlu. Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0435par0303	Those who have nothing to defend have the most to say about the attack. Now, if a Home Secretary really is the Home Secretary of all the people of this country, everyone's Home Secretary, here first of all, he doesn't talk about people by separating the dead, he doesn't get up and just show pictures of certain dead people, and he doesn't talk about just one group.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0436par0306	They're not dead, they're martyrs!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0437par0307	Show this country's soldier, the police, the shooters?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0435par0308	In this land, how many young people died in Suruç. In this country, in Ankara, people who call themselves peace are dead right under our noses. You haven't said a word since you said.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0438par0309	Who went to the condolence?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0435par0310	Look, you guys are out of your league and you're not dealing with him.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0439par0311	We're getting even.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0435par0312	You're listening to what you want on the Strike Research Commission, not listening to what you don't want. You don't listen to the Chief of Staff, you don't listen to the head of MIT, you don't listen to the pilots who bombed this Assembly. It's you because you know the political side of this is going to come out. But you're arresting thousands of people. When there's been a war in this country for 40 years...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0440par0315	There's no war, there's a war on terror!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0441par0316	There's a war on the terrorist!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0435par0317	We've seen Mehmet Agars, we've seen Mehmet Agars, we've seen what they said in the 1990s. Likewise, the speakers here will go down in history, and don't worry, just as the Klaus Barbies in Auschwitz are in history, Rosa Luxemburgs in history as freedom fighters.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0442par0318	Down with the PKK!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0443par0319	What war are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0444par0320	You condemn the PKK, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0445par0321	Whether you shout or call, the PKK will be finished!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0446par0322	Who went to the funeral?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0447par0323	Even though we condemn everything from here, no. Although we call it any kind of violence, we also condemn this violence when there are two massacres in Ankara. Even though we say, "Yes, we also condemn it." If we can talk for three hundred hours on TV, we can only talk for five hours, of course, our voices can't be heard. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0448par0326	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0449par0327	Mr. President, I'm not taking any promises, I want them on the record. THE EVIL is a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0450par0329	Don't talk about it by heart! You'll get it back!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0449par0330	Our police forces are fighting the same force that our Armed Forces are fighting the PKK, and as you can see, we're pushing its root through the Syrian border.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0451par0331	You're gonna apologize, you're gonna apologize to us!
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0449par0332	In the same way, there is a war on terror and terrorists in this country, not war.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0452par0333	That's right.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit05spe0453par0334	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0453par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2015 1) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2015 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2015 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account CULTURE AND TURISM ACTIVITY [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Terms "I") THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH WRITTEN [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Association 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2015 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Now, on behalf of the government, National Defence Minister Fikri Ik will speak for you. Here you are, Mr. Light, twenty-one minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0454par0051	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation and our dear citizens who are watching us on their screens. It means we condemn the treatment of your person, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0453par0053	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0454par0054	Besides, it's World Human Rights Day. As members of a civilization based on human rights, we have achieved significant human rights gains in our time in power. And from now on, I want to make it very clear that we will continue our work in this area with determination and determination. Starting with my words, as we perform our duty to fight terrorism and the unity and unity of our country and our nation, our hero Mehmetçik, our security forces, all of our guards, I wish our veterans a speedy recovery. I wish them success, and I salute them with respect and love, as well as all of our security forces, who have served in counterterrorism and foreign operations. I'd like to make a general assessment of some of the key issues that concern my Ministry and its commitments to the General Assembly of the Veteran Assembly on the basis that the National Ministry of Defence and the Defense Industry's 2017 Centre Management Budget Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill will be discussed in the General Assembly of the Veteran Assembly. We know our territory and even the whole world is going through a difficult time. In some countries, poverty stems from laglessness; in some countries, the famine caused by climate change; in others, conflicts stemming from internal and external causes; in some countries, governments fail or collapse in the face of serious problems. It has deeply affected the lives of millions of people, and it continues to affect them. It is not coincidental that the largest mass migration since World War II has occurred in such an environment of instability. The situation is particularly severe in countries where conflicts have turned into open gunfights and the state collapses. Over 65 million people all over the world are forced to leave their homes today. There are 21 million, 300,000 registered immigrant refugees. According to the UN's recently announced Global Humanitarian Aid Plan, 93 million people are expected to need immediate assistance and protection in 2017. This painting shows how serious problems are happening around us. In fact, we, our neighbors in the south, are experiencing the same situation because of problems in Syria and Iraq. You know that we have over 3 million guests in our country, including 2,750,000 of our two neighbors, Syrian and 300,000 Iraqis. In a world where some pockets are rich but poor countries prevent even a few hundred refugees, Turkey continues to act in a way that suits its history and humanity. Our country has spent billions of dollars on the needs of our Syrian guests, along with the very underprivileged assistance of the international community. However, the problems faced are not just millions of refugees. The disappearance of state authority in countries such as Libya, Yemen, Iraq and Syria is a matter that should be seriously considered, especially if opposition terrorist organisations have replaced this missing state authority. Unfortunately, in these countries, the oppressors who persecuted their own citizens and the malicious environments that followed religious politics have made the suffering and destruction of poor people even greater. In this landscape, a violent terrorist organization like the DEAC, which had nothing to do with Islam, has been able to emerge and take over the lands, cities of these countries. Other terrorist organisations, such as the PKK, the PYD, and the YPG, have also taken advantage of this dark environment, are eager to take their place on the stage of the power of attorney wars. Maybe I should underline something here. Dear friends, the AK PARTY has never adopted a sectarian policy during its 14 years in power, it has never provided an understanding that fuels sectarian dissolution, causing sectarian conflict; on the contrary, it has taken very important steps to resolve existing, existing problems in conversation, dialogue. I'd especially like that on the record. The fact that some global and regional forces have acted on their own account has increased the fulfillment of the landscape, which is the main responsibility of the United Nations Security Council to ensure international peace and security. The vile coup attempt, launched on July 15th by Å traitors, took place at a time when such extraordinary circumstances took place. Our noble nation has failed this treacherous coup attempt by shielding our President, our government, our Veteran Congress, our state, and especially our Armed Forces together, by shielding his chest against the coupters' planes and tanks.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0455par0062	And the opposition... don't forget the opposition.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0454par0063	Turkey's Grand National Assembly also includes opposition. When it is referred to as "Gazi Parliament," it includes ruling MPs and opposition MPs. (EC PARTY) I would also like to thank our opposition MPs especially for their attitude on July 15th. Turkey's struggle with terrorism, the scourge of our age, is a major simultaneously fought on many fronts inside and outside. In fact, Turkey is the only country in the region that is fighting both the DESS and the PKK/YPG-PYD/DDP-C and all terrorist organisations in the region at the same time. There are also those among the terrorist organizations who have brought us unfair criticism that our government and the Republic of Turkey have made no distinction. Now, our most important task is to create an environment that no one can imagine, not from the inside, not from the outside, not from the outside, but from the union of our nation and from the integrity of our nation. And that is why we have actually started a comprehensive reconstruction process that has been intended many times before, but cannot be fully implemented. With this restructuring, the Turkish Armed Forces will be able to focus much more freely and effectively on carrying out their primary mission, the defence of the country, the preparation of our army for war. He will be able to carry out his duty at home, but beyond our borders when necessary. As a matter of fact, on August 24, 2016, shortly after the July 15 disaster, the operation of the Fırat Shield was one of the most concrete indicators of this ability and will. In addition, measures taken in our border area should be seen in this context in the face of developments in Iraq. The Turkish Armed Forces are now much stronger with the removal of the traitors who infiltrated it. Mr. President, because of the restructuring we've started, and as the products of many of the most important defence industry investments continue, the Turkish Armed Forces will be equipped with the most modern possibilities and abilities, and will become even more effective power than they are today. After all, having a strong democracy, a strong economy, a strong country, and an army is no longer just a political choice, but an urgent necessity. As yesterday, Turkey is able and determined today to ensure its national security. For this reason, he never hesitates to use his rights to international law when necessary, and we should not be expected to allow any terrorist organization to operate in Syrian and Iraqi border areas, which are vital to our national security, to form a corridor of terror around here, or to agree to anything against us. For these reasons, it is important that Cerablus, El Rai, and the DEAS be rescued by the Free Syrian Army forces supported by us, which are of great symbolic importance to them. The area is now free and clear of more than 200,000 kilometers [2,000 km] of land in this region. Now, for El Bab, I'd like to stress that one of the hardest stages of this operation is being carried out, and that despite the backstabbing attempts, there's been a selfless struggle. As of this morning, two more settlements have been taken over by the Free Syrian Army. I ask for God's mercy and my thanks to our brave soldiers who were killed in the Battle of the Firat Shield and to those of the Free Syrian Army who lost their lives in this battle together, and to our veterans. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been contributing to all international efforts in the fight against the DEAS. Our leading role in the fight against DEAŞ is handed over by all the actors in the field. We actively attend meetings of the Global Coalition Against the DEAS. On 15 December 2016, we will attend the coalition meeting in London. Meanwhile, there are security measures taken in our border in Syria, including the Border Physics Security System. A total of 825km of wallwork has been planned, and up to 996km of wall construction has been completed so far; construction and tender work of the remaining part continue. The physical security of our Syrian border will be fully secured in the first half of 2017. By the way, we know that there are some who are uncomfortable with our wall from the Border Physics Security System. Who's bothered? In the first place, the PKK and the PSD and DEAŞ on the Syrian extension of the terrorist organisation. Human traffickers, drug traffickers are also uncomfortable with this, but while we're pulling this wall, we're leaving the necessary doors to ensure that our people in the region pass through. So this wall is definitely not meant to sever contact between our people, but to block the activities of terrorist organizations and traffickers in particular and human traffickers in the region. In recent days, we see that the human situation in Syria has gotten worse. In Aleppo, tens of thousands of civilians were forced to leave their homes in a small part of hundreds of thousands of civilian cities as a result of the recent attacks by regime forces and Shiite militias under Russian air support. The international community must take immediate precautions for the human drama in Aleppo. The recent adoption of a decision at the United Nations Security Council, due to the veto of two permanent members, has not been made, unfortunately, for a week's temporary ceasefire in Aleppo. We are obliged to focus on the issue of humanitarian aid in Aleppo until we have a political solution in the country. It's a human duty. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are facing serious problems from the state structure, which has been severely weakened by foreign interference for a very long time. This environment in Iraq has raised threats from DEAS and PKK terrorist organizations, just as it did in Syria. This has made it necessary to take certain measures that are necessary for our national security. Although some circles deliberately try to create air against Turkey, we are, in reality, the country that values the territorial integrity, unity, and stability of Iraq. Meanwhile, the operation of Mosul, which has been launched since 17 October by the Iraqi army and security forces supported by coalition forces, has also been of great importance to the future of our region in the next phases, which have not been quite as planned in recent days. Of course, it is vital that Mosul (Musul) or Telafer (Telafer) be cleansed of the DEA. But the other thing that matters at least this much is how and by whom these two cities will be ruled. Every development here is directly affecting our country. We express to the Musul, and to the Musulites, and to the Telaferites, and to the Rakkaites. We insist that the demographic structure of Musul province should not be changed. Because otherwise, not only Iraq, but our country and our immediate environment will be able to face additional security problems and new humanitarian crises. In this context, we can say that our views of the Mosul operation on various platforms at the highest level have been largely considered by the countries involved in the operation so far. Naturally, we will continue to monitor and direct further developments. In the meantime, we will not allow Mount Sincar to settle the PKK's terrorist organization at all costs. Any measures will be taken to prevent Sincar from becoming the home of PKK's terrorist organization after Kandil. No one will have doubts or hesitated about it. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have once again pointed out the importance of our national defenses being provided with a full state-of-the-art awareness and the importance of these trials and reflections that we face in our recent geography. So the restructuring process that we started is of great importance. And while we're not particularly specific in this talk, we're a country that, unfortunately, we're going to call the history of the last hundred and fifty years, the date of impacts. In Turkey, we have taken many steps to prepare an environment in which no one will ever attempt a coup, regardless of who gets support from the centers, whatever actors do it, and whatever methods are done. From that day forward, we have actually taken many steps in order to increase democratic control over the Turkish Armed Forces, to focus more on Turkish Armed Forces' original work, to balance power, to fully deploy democratic understanding into the Turkish Armed Forces and to form a military-military union. I won't be able to go into any of this in particular due to a lack of time. However, in the meantime, I would like to stress in particular that the National Defence University is a critical and important step towards the further military education of Turkey and the development of qualified human strength in the field of defence. With the National Defense University, we will not only create a qualified human resource of the Turkish Armed Forces, but we will also raise qualified people who are working on the concept of defense in the civilian field. At this point, we're doing some work especially on the rights of our staff. In this regard, perhaps I should emphasize in a brief sentence... that the demands that our petty officers, specialists and contractors have given us... have been carefully examined... and there will be some steps to be taken in the coming process. 5,676 personnel from the Turkish Armed Forces have been expelled from the Turkish Armed Forces because they are connected to the CHP terrorist organization. On the other hand, 39 people who were previously dismissed have been reinstated as a result of objections and examinations. As a result, 22,085 people were cut off from the Turkish Armed Forces when a total of 16,409 military students were assessed. Mr. President, our relationship with NATO is especially important. Although some irresponsible explanations have been made from time to time, Turkey will continue to value the NATO alliance, continuing its course as a strong member of NATO. In this respect, I would like to stress on the basis of budget talks that NATO has decided with the alliance of all member states, especially by 2024, it is imperative that it raises defence spending by 2% to 2% of GDP. It is also agreed that 20 per cent of this will be divided into the supply of the main weapons systems. At this point, Turkey has divided and spent 1.67 (as of 2015) on defence spending. From now on, we must all work together to achieve this goal, its 2% goal. Mr. President, in the defence industry, Turkey has taken really big steps in the past 14 years, making significant progress. In particular, we have carried out many projects such as HURKÜRKÜŞ, HÜRKÜŞİ-B, Turkey's joint assault aircraft, national combat aircraft development, ATAK helicopters -- 18 of which have been delivered to our Turkish Armed Forces so far -- 35 of which have been delivered to our Turkish Armed Forces by the end of 2017, the Autonomous Helicopter Program, the General Maksat Helicopter Project. Once these projects are completed, hopefully the Turkish Armed Forces will have much more deterrent power. We're moving one step at a time towards the local and national defense industry here. We've launched our Skyturk-1 satellite, and now we're aiming to launch our own communications satellite and our first satellite of observation, hopefully in the coming years, in 2019. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish in a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0456par0084	Okay, fine. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0454par0086	We're actually doing a lot of projects in the defense industry, and we're going to do it. Hopefully, in the hundredth year of our republic's founding, it will rise to a country that has developed critical technologies in the Turkish defence industry and minimized its dependence on the outside.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0457par0087	What about the dollar in the secret account, the euros?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0454par0088	I'll answer him in question. I wish our 2017 budget to be good for our country, for our nation, and I salute each and every one of you with my sincerest love.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0458par0091	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0459par0092	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0458par0093	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0459par0094	Mr. President, I demand my position according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0458par0095	You want a minute's promise from your position?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0459par0096	I'm going to make a request, and I'm going to make one thing clear right now.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0458par0097	Just a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0459par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Although our Home Secretary is gone, he's not here, but I'd like to make a few statements about his own conversations. Now, all the people of Turkey are watching and listening. We're discussing the interior ministry's budget, but the Home Office hasn't made any statement about the budget. The Ministry of Interior should have very important data on the budget, but has made no statement. Second: What happened in Cizre? He turned to our morning speaker and said he didn't give a name for it. We, Mr. Osman Baydemir, including our orator, have all mentioned the names of all those who lost their lives and were slaughtered here in the past period. I can only tell Taybet Ana that her funeral was on the ground for a week. The Minister made a speech by ignoring it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0460par0104	Finish it, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0459par0105	Thirdly, Mr. President, this country is currently run by the State of Emergency, the State of the Law and the trustees. ▪ Kaymakam rules that district....... he said... Yeah, that's right. Kaymakam is the district's property manager, but there are municipalities in that district that run for office, there are co-chairs of the municipality. Therefore, the co-chairs are now elected by the will of the city councilman, unfortunately, all in prisons and in the process are being held hostage. They're being held hostage for the cause, or hostage for the cause, all obviously, because of their political opinion, they're being held hostage at the moment, none of which are related to the service or the work they're doing, not the municipal work they're doing. And once again, I'm going to say that from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0460par0107	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0461par0108	President, can I have a word with you?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0460par0109	We'll figure it out later. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2015 1) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2015 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2015 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account CULTURE AND TURISM ACTIVITY [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Terms "I") THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH WRITTEN [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Association 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2015 Central Management Final Account Mr. Nabi Avcı, Minister of Culture and Tourism, will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0462par0157	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as Minister of Culture and Tourism, I salute you all. Before I begin with my words, I am once again strongly condemning the treatment of our President as you are.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0460par0158	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0462par0159	I'm here to share with you the activities that our ministry and its organisations carried out in 2016 and planned in 2017. However, before I go on speaking my words, I celebrate this year's 100th year of birth, Cemil Maryic, and Tanburi Cemil Bey, whom we remember in the hundredth year of his death. We're doing a lot of events about them, and they're being organized, and I'm going to say once again that we'd like to see you at these events as much as we can. Mr. President, valuable MPs, 2016 was a period of testing humanity for both the international community and Turkey. As Turkey passed this test successfully in terms of the victims of international terrorism, the victims of wars, the international community unfortunately failed to give a good test in the face of all these developments. In 2016, unfortunately, as human beings against global terrorism, we were unable to develop a common stance and a common expression and therefore a joint action. It's not surprising that terrorism is targeting the tourism industry all over the world. In recent years, growing terrorism has targeted all humanity, causing stagnation in tourism in many countries. Also, perception operations against Turkey abroad and abroad have negatively affected our country's tourism sector. It's not supposed to be our delusions or even our paranoia, because a lot of the events we've been experiencing lately prove that this perception operation is being operated deeply. In 2016, Turkey was not only exposed to what we might call conventional forms of terrorism; we also witnessed a new coup attempt that had infiltrated state institutions, but on July 15th, our nation signed a heroic epic that would really go down in history. The festivals of democracy in the city squares after the coup attempt were both evidence and triggering the normalisation of life in our country, as opposed to counter-intuitive operations. In terms of the sector of 2016, there has been a period of temporary crisis with Russia in terms of tourism, but there has also been a year of really important and permanent steps towards resolving the problem. As a matter of fact, during our visit to Russia last week with Mr. Prime Minister, we discussed what kind of measures we should take, especially to move our relations in the field of tourism beyond the past, and they walked in a very positive atmosphere. Again, recently, at the International Resort Tourism Congress held in Antalya, foreign tour operators expressed that because of the developments in 2016, tourists had the opportunity to compare our country with other countries in the countries they had gone to, Turkey had seen the comparative superiority of service quality and infrastructure and were expected to come back to Turkey in 2017. Most of them were also reflected in the industry press. In this sense, 2016 will be the opportunity to turn all these negatives into opportunities and to prove Turkey's power in tourism. The most important lesson that we've learned from what happened here in 2016 is that we need to take our tourism out of the sea, sand, solar parentheses, and open it to other potential tourist areas that our country has. For this reason, we first saw for ourselves that Turkey has really serious savings and potential, and then slowly the institutions that are doing business with Turkey, and the operators began to see for themselves. We also took effective measures so that Turkey, the 6th most tourist attraction in the world and Europe's 4th country, will be affected by the world-wide negatives and regional developments, and we continue to take them. As a matter of fact, in this case, the total cost of $543m in the Tourism Emergency Action Plan support package, you will remember, my predecessor, Mahir Ünal Bey, started it and put it into practice in 2016. We continue the same program with reinforcements. Our Ministry, acting with a reflex that responds to global developments in the tourism sector immediately, is taking effective measures to bring our cultural values to the forefront and bring the culture economy and the tourism sector together. We also aim to improve the quality of employment and life by supporting cultural entrepreneurs and cultural industries in our provinces with grants and loans. This is one of the lessons that we learned from the trials we faced in 2016, as I said, to increase our product diversity, but also to expand our target markets. Earlier, he had a routine that was content with certain markets, such as the industry, Russia, England, Germany, with a little bit of a sense of direction. But the troubles in 2016 have shown us that from Japan to Latin America, we need to expand our market to include China, India, the Arab world, Iran, North Africa, and even Africa, and indeed, our sector has begun to open up to these markets in a very compatible partnership with our Ministry, giving real importance to the promotional activities for these markets. Because Turkey has a rich cultural memory and savings that all mankind can benefit from today. I'm sure you won't really understand this as a dry brag. Yes, Turkey is one of the most fortunate countries in the world in terms of the sea, sand, sun, but these opportunities are in other countries, but Turkey's privilege is this: Turkey is also a very privileged country in gastronomy, and although we haven't yet evaluated our potential in terms of mountain tourism, and in terms of winter tourism, it's a country with very great potential. Istanbul has already experienced our successes in Congress tourism very closely in the past, hopefully more so in the future. We have seen once again that there is a great potential in health tourism, and in cooperation with our Ministry of Health, we're developing new projects to assess Turkey's potential in health tourism, and hopefully we'll be happy to share them with you and our public in the next year. Also, thermal tourism is a country that has a very rich savings, especially in which religious heritage areas, the sacred places of three heavenly religions, or places that are considered sacred. So, hopefully, if we support this potential with proper promotional strategies, Turkey will travel very important distances in tourism, starting in the coming years from 2017. When I said proper promotional strategies, friends from both the ruling party and the opposition party rightly stressed the strategy proposals, the mind's way. Yes, in the past, many countries, including Turkey, were doing promotions through a general image, and so did we, for years, we introduced Turkey as a land of sea, sand, sun, etc., but now we need to reflect the substructures of this, both in Turkey and in our product diversity, both in advertising and in our promotional strategy. As a matter of fact, our friends, speaking on behalf of our group, have stressed what a strategic decision-making process this is, and I thank our friends once again. Now I'd like to share a few numbers with you. Our ministry's budget for 2016 and the budget for 2017 sums up: the budget for 2016 was $2 billion,777 million,7699,000, including relevant institutions, and the investment budget included 759 million,970,000. 27 per cent of the 2016 budget consisted of investment and 73 per cent of the current budget. The budget for 2017 depends on a relative increase and is estimated at 3 billion 459 million 754,000 liras, including relevant organisations. First, may God bless you, and may God not destroy the state and the nation. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) We'll do great things with this budget. Of course, the heart desires that if this budget were at least half the size of our national education budget, of course, none of us would say no, but we also know the resources of our government.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0463par0169	Let's hope it's in CHP power, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0462par0170	Therefore, the budget for 2017 was planned at 864m,688000 liras. 25 per cent of the 2017 budget consists of investment and 75 per cent of the current budget. Our ministry's budget's share of the general budget reached 0.49 per cent in 2016 and 0.55 per cent in 2017. So what we've done with this budget, what we've done, now I want to share them with you briefly. As of October 2016, 16 million people visited 220 private museums, including 138 museums and 138 sites in our ministry. We also need to make these museum visits a priority and priority because 15 days ago at the Antalya Archeology Museum in Antalya, which is the world's richest museum for unspoiled ancient sculptures, where we also sang at the promotional ceremony of eight large statues that had just been removed from Perge excavations. Of the 12 million tourists arriving in Antalya, we can only take 60,000 to the Archeology Museum. However, there is indeed a serious cultural heritage in which at least one third of these 12 million tourists will be interested. Not only for our foreign guests, but for our own citizens, and especially for our children, our young people, our students, we need to take incentives for these museum visits. As a matter of fact, 15 days ago, we signed a protocol with our Ministry of National Education to make both our museums, our structures, teachers and students, more useful in teaching facilities, as well as in the choirs and orchestras of our Ministry, in primary schools, in secondary schools, high schools, in which our young people will be willing to contribute to their artistic activities by this protocol. A similar protocol, hopefully, will soon be signed by our Ministry of Youth and Sports. We also have a prerequisite for collaborating with our young people on social spaces where they can spend their free time, even by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism -- which is what young people call "bookkafe." As I said, we opened three new museums in 2016 with a view of the living museum next to this education and everyday life. Hopefully, in addition to the 27 New Museum Productions and Renovation Project, we're aiming for a serious digital and qualitative increase in museums -- I'm not going to go into numbers because the process is going down. A joyful event had risen from our presence in UNESCO World Heritage List to the Sudden Archeological Zone of Turkey to 16. Fifteen days ago, the UNESCO Intercultural Heritage Inter-Special Committee meeting held at Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia, was included in the Cultural Heritage List, both in Turkey and in Turkey, as well as in the projects we gave along with Azerbaijan and our other neighbours. And by the way, by making a partial compromise with the Armenians -- because they also count as their national heritage -- the lava -- that's where we've seen tourism and culture's ability to serve peace. There's been a good development. Other than that, the neurosis was already on the list, but there was a resolution that expanded the scope of the neurosis. A joyful development is also related to our Chinese art. Our traditional Chinese art was also recorded on the world heritage list at the UNESCO meeting at Addis Ababa (Ababa) fifteen days ago. On this occasion, we also opened the unofficial opening of a museum called the Picasso of China a month ago, consisting of the works of the late Olçar master. If you are on your way to Kütahya, I would especially advise you to observe and visit this museum and other museums that we opened on the same street, on Art Street, and on the other side of the road. We also opened the Golden Age of King Midas, in the United States, abroad. The Kuran Art: We opened a large exhibition from the Museum of Turkish and Islamic Arts called Treasures. I also want to thank you very much for our special attempt to contribute to this exhibition. Again, we opened the exhibition at UNESCO headquarters in Paris. He was really taken care of, too. To be honest, I've only been able to share a fifth of my conversation with you. Time's running out. I'll quickly emphasize a few more titles. We have some very serious work on libraries. We increase our number of mobile libraries in 2017. A friend of ours told me about the driver's distress. Now, we're not hiring there, we're contracting there. It's all right all the time, but sometimes there's a setback in the contract renewal phase.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0464par0183	And there's no delivery guy.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0462par0184	But our mobile libraries are very functional, and really our young people are very popular with our children. We're trying to make our city libraries more habitable. Other than that, we've prepared a project to create cultural inn, a prototype. For our medium-sized cities, we create cultural halls with exhibition halls, conference halls, concert halls, libraries. We made some huge breakthroughs at the movies. In 2002, nine films were produced in Turkey. A hundred and thirty-nine films were made last year, and a large portion of them were supported by the Ministry of Culture. We've increased our support a lot. There's been a misunderstanding about the State Theatres. As the State Theatres began this new season, the Turkish State Theatres opened their curtains with Turkish works, Turkish writers. A disintegration campaign was launched over it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Sir, would you excuse me for two minutes?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0465par0191	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0462par0192	This is wrong. Yes, we started with Turkish artifacts, but there are 65 new foreign artifacts in our repertoire this year. In fact, last month in Moscow, Russia held the Days of Dostoyevski, where our State Theatres participated in Dostoyevsky's "Notes" from the underworld, and was voted the most popular foreign performance by the audience. In the State Theatres, of course, we want to play more Turkish games, more Turkish writers' plays, but we don't turn our backs on the classics of world literature. I thank our great Council and our Plan and Budget Commission for the opportunities it has provided for us. On behalf of all my friends, on behalf of my colleagues, I want to thank you very much. I'd like to thank all of my colleagues who have prepared the budget and have made these plans, who have done these work, separately. With all due respect, I wish you the best of our budget.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0466par0196	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0467par0197	I have a short word request.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0466par0198	Mr. Master, get into the system. You have a one-minute request?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0467par0200	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0466par0201	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0467par0204	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a matter to address to the attention of the Minister of National Defense. Now, Mr. Secretary, this is actually a major drama about military students. For example, we're visited by families. Who are they? He's got Air Force School parents. For example, their children are taken away while they are in the camp at Yalova. In fact, I, for one, believe that, I mean, they're kids who have nothing to do with the coup. He doesn't know where they're going, they're taking him for a drill. In fact, some of the interesting things are that they stay in Yalova, because buses are not enough for students. Now those kids aren't under arrest, they're all under arrest. The families are very victimized. He's being taken away again as a drill at the Polish Gunman and Missile School. On the other hand, there's another candidate for a contract officer at the Black War School, who's going to Afyon on July 16th. They're coming from here that night, and somehow they're getting involved. Even young children who have never been involved in anything are currently under arrest. Other than that, for example, there are petty officers from a contractually-compromised outside source. Now, for example, there's a process going on in the Army Command. These have been received, and they are fully processed, and even after the July 15 coup, they are asked for documents, but they are later stated that they will not be taken. So let's do a security investigation, and if any of us are involved, let's get rid of them. They ask, "Why is the government doing such practices? We will not take all of them. " You have to deal with these kind of victims. When we create a victim here, the fight with the victim is really getting damaged. So you have to be very careful with these. It's good to take a hand with these dramas, to intervene, families are very victimized. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0468par0210	Thank you. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2015 1) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2015 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2015 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account CULTURE AND TURISM ACTIVITY [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Terms "I") THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH WRITTEN [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Association 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2015 Central Management Final Account Now, Mr. Ali Atalan, Mardin MP, will speak on behalf of his own. Your time is five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Atalan.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0469par0258	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to draw your attention to something a little more specific, specific, although it's relevant. Some of you may know that at the last meeting of the National Security Council, the ancient settlement of the Ezidis was mentioned that it could be interfered with if necessary towards Sincar. Yesterday, Mr. Secretary of State, today, Mr. Secretary of Defense just implied that operations could be conducted the same way. Dear friends, you know, you're all aware of what happened to thousands of women and children who were brutally murdered by ISIS on August 3, 2014, as well as thousands of women and children. This genocide has set the world in motion, and organizations such as the United Nations and the European Parliament have described it as jenosit. Like Nadia Murad, a daughter of Ezidi, who was released from ISIS, was elected ambassador to good faith by the United Nations and awarded the Saharov Prize by the European Parliament. But for some reason, the AKP government has not yet said or condemned any critical words against this genocide. We've offered the Parliament the law on the matter, and unfortunately, it's still on hold on the Commission, so hopefully it'll be on the agenda soon enough, and it'll be legalized. That's right, the Crushers are in line with their traditional history of resistance and organized themselves to defend against the attacks. It was also officially recognized and accepted by both the Iraqi Central Government and the Kurdistan Regional Government. What's wrong with that, and what's dangerous about it? I ask you now as an Ezidi MP, and I expect a clear answer from the government: What evil has the oppressed done to you and what evil is there now? In both the Ottoman Empire and in the history of the republic, they lived in peace with their peoples and beliefs, and did no harm to anyone. I don't know if some of the AKP's MPs know that there are more than 100,000 Ezidis who migrate from Turkey to Europe, who are still citizens. Look, I want to give you two examples of what a dangerous and outdated mentality this mentality is. The persecution is still not accepted as a religion in Turkey because the President of Religious Affairs wrote a report, not a religion. The number, as I've just said, does not accept the religion of its own citizen who has found 100,000, but interestingly, Taoism and Hinduism are on the list. It is written in the identity digits as well as in Kurdish as in Kurdish. So it's a sign that means "unknowable" or "unrecognized." Unfortunately, that's our reality; it's bitter, but it's a fact. We may be the only country in the world where there are unknown languages and religions. And I'm afraid we haven't received any answers from the religion on the subject; we've written, we've been waiting for four months. I hope the Minister will help with that. Mr. President, the state has no religion. I'm afraid it's a waste of time here. For one thing, such an institution does not have the right or the right to decide whose faith, which religion, or religion, will be defined. I'm asking you, where is secularism left in this state? Look, the religion of persecution is in Iraq...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0470par0268	Mr. Atalan, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0469par0269	Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0470par0271	Congressmans, the talks on the fifth round are complete. Now we're going to question-answer. Our time is 20 minutes, ten minutes of this time is for questions, and ten minutes of that time is for answers. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0471par0275	Thank you, Mr. President. Is it considered to be part of the service of expert gendarmes in school? Will there be changes and staff arrangements in the status of veteran gendarmes? Is it considered to improve the rights of law enforcement, to improve the rights of self-esteem, and to improve the rights of pensioners? On October 29th, all proceedings were cancelled by the 6th Article of the law-ordered decree, which was carried out in April 2016 by a member of the Black Force Command, who signed a pledge and hoped to start training in February 2017. What about these candidates? Is study considered preventing the victims of rights? My fifth question is: Why is the facility defined as the military factory in Niğde Bor district not being developed, will it be shut down? 6) There was a statement from our Minister that the military troops would be brought to Niğde Bor. Is it expected to bring military troops to the district of Bor in 2017? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0472par0282	Thank you. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0473par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Defence Minister, the complaints and demands of the Defence Commission, which I am a member of, and we believe, are due to improvements in the autonomy rights of members of the Turkish Armed Forces, both in and abroad in the process of combating terrorism, both abroad and abroad, and, again, in accordance with a number of demands of civilian personnel working within the same institution, the time has come because we are going through a time of fever. If we put this first, we will be responding to the great expectations of our brothers, both moral, motivation, and their families, who have been waiting for years, who have suffered all kinds of injuries in the fight against terrorism, who have yet to receive the title of a veteran. Especially civilian employees... believe me, in some cases they're subject to civilian personnel status, and in some cases they're perceived as military personnel. There's a contradiction in that sense.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0472par0287	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0474par0289	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Home Secretary, when are you going to raise the rights of property managers to the level of judge, prosecutor's salaries? When will you raise the additional indicators of the police to 3,600? Again, will you make a new arrangement that will facilitate the employment of the veteran gendarmes and privates when their contract expires? Mr. Minister of Tourism, during your ministry, tourism is over. In 2016, the number of tourists was 40 per cent less than 50 per cent of tourism revenue. And for 2017, the tourist has no hope. We don't want show support, we want the tourism industry to work because when the tourism industry doesn't work, life stops in Mugla, economics stops, jobs end. Hear the voice of the tourists, or you will not be able to carry out the revenues you are aiming for in the 2017 budget. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0475par0293	Thank you. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0476par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. December 10th is the 68th year of the universal declaration of human rights. After millions of people lost their lives, the countries realized that they would no longer get anywhere by fighting. Right now, we're going through a similar process all over the world, including our country. Instead of being a little more hostile to each other with extreme rhetoric, we need to show the will to live together in the human denominator. We need to stop seeing our differences as a threat to each other. Don't hurt me. As a guide, I salute you all with the desire for a more democratic and free country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0477par0300	Thank you. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0478par0302	Thank you. Mr. Noble, is it true that police vehicles are forbidden to cross Osmangazi and Yavuz Sultan Selim bridges? What's his motive? Second: Are there studies of two of our soldiers kidnapped by ISIS? Where's he at? Three soldiers, I think. We want information on him. Mr. Hunter, has the TUSAK bill for the closing of State Theatres been completely removed from the agenda? One more time...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0479par0306	He didn't show up, he didn't come up.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0478par0307	Okay, I'll ask. Are you going to redesign the rights of our artists? Also, have studies started, will there be museums in İstanbul Pressköy about Yasar Kemal's house being a museum, as well as the last budget? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0480par0310	Thank you. Mr. Yalcinkaya...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0481par0312	Mr. Culture Minister, according to the Charter for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Mira that our country approved, how do you intend to give our country a positive view of the establishment of the thermal power plant in the United States and the world, which was added to the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2013 by your Ministry for World Heritage?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0480par0313	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0482par0314	Thank you. I'm asking our Minister of Industry, Mr. Hosni Bozkurt, our Democratic MP, has made a speech here in your Ministry about dollars and euro accounts. In particular, what is the amount of euros and dollars cashed in the secret accounts of the Defense Industry? According to what, you kept these in secret accounts? We'd like to know what the total amount is. I'm asking our Home Secretary, Mr. Secretary, in many places the basic rights and freedoms have been put on the shelf, citing the state of emergency. The press statements, which need to be made legally in many provinces, are not made and are blocked, including the meetings. This weekend, KESK had meetings about education, which was blocked. You don't need to declare extreme martial law on grounds of the State of Emergency. A second question, Mr. Secretary, for you again. From July 15, 2016 to today, how many operations have been carried out in our country for terrorist organizations who have received religious references, and what are the consequences of operations? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Especially with our security forces at 3,600...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0483par0320	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0484par0322	Thank you, Mr. President. How many prosecutors have been arrested, suspended, or expelled from the trial files of MPs arrested for the coup attempt on July 15th, the co-mayors, the party's mayors, and the party's mayors, the party's executives? My second question is Müjgan Ekin, October 24th, 15 o'clock. On the way from Ankara Westville to Kızılay, he takes a commercial taxi and is taken into custody by people who have identified them as police. His family has applied to Ankara Security Directorate, the Republic Prosecutor's Office. Another citizen, Taşkın Ban, is being detained in Diyarbakır Gaziler district at around 2:00 p.m. on December 1st, no news. I want the fate of these two to be answered by you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0485par0325	Mr. Tor...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0486par0326	My question is to Mr. Home Secretary. One of the most important problems of our fellow law enforcement officers, who have been severely involved in the defence of the country, is their long-term work. Although the monthly working period is set as one hundred and sixty-six hours according to State Officers' Law No. 657, our police officers are actively working between two hundred and three hundred hours and cannot receive overtime or administrative permission in exchange for their extra work. In 2014, the Public Control Agency made an important decision regarding working hours, but this decision was not carried out. My question is, do you, as Ministry, have any work to do with the lengths of our police work and the length of overtime? Do you intend to consider the length of overtime a satisfactory fee or a one-on-one administrative leave? My second question is, on the night of the July 15 coup, even though some of the law enforcement personnel who made a lot of effort were being tautified...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0485par0329	Thank you. Mr. Ahrazoglu...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0487par0331	I would like to thank our Home Secretary, who has expressed and applauded the facts to AKP lawmakers, who have reacted strongly and disagreed with our concerns and proposals about terrorism over the years. My question to our Minister of National Defense is that there is a difference between the Constitution 670 and the martyrs and the veterans on July 15th and our other martyrs and veterans. Do you intend to resolve the differences in this matter? July 15th, do you have any interest in giving away 5 times as much as our martyrs and veterans? Another question for our Minister of Tourism. Minister, the amount of resources reserved for tourism in the Hatay region is very small. Are you planning to increase that? There are also public facilities in Hatay, and have you ever done a study of tourism?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0488par0334	Thank you. Mr. Ministers, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0489par0336	Thank you very much. In particular, in the matter of the rights of the expert gendarme, the special police school opened in 1989 has been closed in 2012, and the supply of specialized gendarmes has been terminated. With the closing of the staff and the end of their supplies, there is a huge increase in applications made by veteran gendarmes through various means concerning their financial and autonomy rights. The conditions for the transition from special police officer to petty officer are organised by the Special Police Act and the Specialist Gendarme Administration and Record Administration. These conditions include graduating from faculty, institutes of higher education, universities of applied sciences, not receiving a day at 28 years of age, average of 90 per cent and higher of registration grades, succeeding in the regulations and carrying moral discipline requirements under regulations. There are still 20,691 veterans in the General Command of the Gendarmes who are unable to be transferred to Petty Officers due to their failure to meet the terms of the training of 6,807, while 8,803 of those who remain are above the age of 31. There are 3,014 veteran gendarmes who have the conditions for the transition to Petty Officer, in the event that the age of the proposed transition to petty officer is increased to 31. The additional indicators for the rights of expert gendarmes have been raised from 2,200 to 3,000 from 2002 to today, increased salaries by side payment decrees, allowing pre-license and over-educated staff to rise to the 4th level of the 1st degree. At the same time, there is a new solution to part of them, which the Ministry of Justice has uncovered. That solution, especially with KHK No. 676, can be employed as an execution guard within the Ministry of Justice, with the exception of the age and central examination of those who have not reached the age and the age of 35 on the basis of the oral examination, after working for at least two years under the Special Staff Act No. 3269, which is our own 31-year-old senior official status, as well as the Department of Justice in the interim process. Again, there is also a request from our police department, especially for overtime fees, as you asked. It is clear: Perhaps this has been brought in by the company of taltifs so far, but what can we do about these overtime fees for over a month? As the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we think it might be more accurate to call it overtime fees, because we think it's not right to bring it back from its own place, from its origin, to make it sustainable, with a slightly balanced, maybe a little bit more balanced. Taltif should be more exceptional, but overtime... I'm thinking that I should be able to establish the protection of overtime rights here. Again, in addition to this, these prosecutors and judges, these arrested mayors and MPs, how many GERPs are they? (I'm not really doing any research on them, but I'm thinking that we can do research on them as well.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0490par0341	Hey, you know those guys who earned the right to Petty Officers... anything about the kids who got the right to Petty Officers and didn't start?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0489par0342	Again, why is a transition from Ottomangazi and Yavuz Selim Bridges banned to security vehicles? I can say this: I mean, believe me, I don't know what that means, and I don't know. So, now that I've told our friends, I've read this, but we have a ten-to-two-hour meeting in Istanbul tomorrow morning with all the owners and the entire police community, and I've been hiding this question there, so why did you need it? I'll tell the others if you want... Now, see, this is important, especially because I want my friends at the opposition party to listen to it with their candelabras. The DEAS, PKK and abroad have repeatedly reported that it will act in crowded places, especially political party rallies, as well as in the rallies set out by such union organisations -- here and there.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0491par0345	The AKP does, but...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0489par0346	They do it to all political parties. But I'll tell you this, this isn't about obstruction. I mean, we want our political parties to do everything they need to do, especially in the normal course of life, everything our NGOs need to do, and that's our job, but sometimes they come up with a painting that is, like, DEACH on the one hand, like, 15 or 20 days, and now they've stopped, and we're getting very serious reports about it, and we're getting reports about it, especially in crowds and in public places. You'll appreciate that they want to turn the situation of the country into a different point after July 15th. And we've been doing a lot of evaluations on this, and we've been giving them to a lot of them. So far, we can't prevent any of the meetings the Republican People's Party wants. On the contrary, our friends are in contact with them everywhere... because that's our common concern, threatening our political lives. And since they're threatening our political lives, we're not supposed to let them threaten us, so we need to limit political life, and we need to take countermeasures together. We give it to KESK in some places, but we can't give it to him in some places. He's got his reasons, too, which I've just mentioned to him. I'm gonna answer this question and hang up. DEAŞ: In operations carried out in 2016, 3,321 detentions and 1,289 arrests and still every day at every point in Turkey, the process of our sensitivity to the PKK, the DEAS and our security officers and the judiciary has shown that they will disturb the peace of our country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0492par0351	Mr. President, I'd like to thank our friends who have contributed with their questions. About Mr. Gürer's candidates for the petty officer... we didn't adapt them, especially since we know that these people in this particular province have played a very serious role in this audition recently, but we've been particularly careful that no one has lost their rights. We're going to bring troops to Bor. We've explained that before. There's been no change in the decision on the military factory... before it was committed to military factories. Mr. Aydın, I have also expressed in my speech on improving the rights of Turkish Armed Forces personnel in particular, that we are still working on this, but we are doing a very comprehensive study of veterans, as it is instructed by the Council of Ministers, which is being held by the chairman of our President. We will share with you and the public the results of this work, especially after we complete this study. In the question of a member of parliament, especially two soldiers, we know that one of our soldiers is badly wounded, and one of our soldiers is injured, and we consider that the DEA has him. The work is being carried out for the rescue of our soldiers. That's as far as I'm concerned, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0493par0358	Mr. Secretary, a year and a half ago, one of our soldiers was kidnapped...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0494par0359	Mr. President, this is the note regarding Mr. Yalçınkaya's question regarding the thermal plant planned to be built in Amasra. Our opinion on the application for CED for the site of the plant has been submitted to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism on 29 May 2013, as to whether or not there is an unmovable culture within the scope of Law 2863. So the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism doesn't ask us to build a power plant here. He asks us, is there a cultural and historical presence in this region as soon as it's moved? Later, in 2014, it was 1/25 of the area in question. The demand for a 000-scale environmental order change is being transmitted, and the area is being re-examined, and the Ministry's view of any cultural presence is reported. The Amasra Castle is beyond that scope. The second question is, do you plan to build a museum in the house of Hayır Kemal? Now, private property can be opened as a private museum...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0495par0365	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0496par0366	Sir, perhaps one more question...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0495par0367	Oh, yeah? Okay.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0497par0368	We also asked our Secretary of Defense a question.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0498par0369	After our Minister, I mean, there's a question.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0495par0370	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0499par0371	I'm just asking a question, especially Mr. Pine, the secret accounts of the Defense Industries... the Defense Industries has no secret account whatsoever.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0500par0372	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0499par0373	The statement in the Court report stems from a technical error. The Court acknowledged that it had made that mistake. As a result, the accounts were evened out. There is absolutely no secret account of the Defense Industry Undersecretary.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0500par0374	Mr. Secretary, it looks like 3 million, the amount you're cashing is too high.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0499par0375	No, here it is, technical error. The court did not see what was seen in another pen, but wrote a report according to it, and then corrected it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0501par0376	Mr. Secretary, why don't we know about this correction? You're going to settle your account here.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0502par0377	Your Royal Highness...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0503par0378	There are two people in custody and two people who have been alleged unaccounted for. If you give me their names right now, I'll do the research on them. I mean, there's no way that could have happened. We'll give you the answer right away.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0502par0379	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0504par0380	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0502par0381	Mr. Radish, do you have something to say?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0505par0382	Minister, how is the health of our soldiers in ISIS? How is his health in the hands of the soldiers of ISIS?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0506par0383	There, I just said it.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0502par0384	Congressmans, wait a minute... Mr. Radish, did you have something to say? I'll give you my word on your position for a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0507par0387	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0502par0388	Mr. Adıyaman, let's listen to a little bit of our friend, our congressman, and then you can... Here you go, Mr. Radish.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0508par0390	Mr. Minister of Culture and Tourism, thanks to your authority in the province of Zonguldak, the number of pensioners has risen to 150,000, and the number of employees has dropped to 150,000. In this context, one: does your ministry have a study of the two and a half hundred years of Teios Ancient City, which has enough funds to be split up and ready for a visit? Two: Do you intend to do a study on the efforts of tourism of the remains of Zeugma mosaics in the village of Kadioğlu, Teycuma? Three: It is estimated that the Bronze Age was the first time the seed of the 4.112-year-old badger tree, one of the oldest in Turkey and the oldest in the world, in the district of Gümeli, in our town of Zonguldak, Alaplı. In terms of promoting the region for these rare monument-quality trees in the world to be protected and organised tours...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0509par0395	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0510par0397	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0511par0398	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0512par0399	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0513par0400	Congressmans, we don't have that kind of practice. Please... it's starting to line up here now. Mr. Radishcu asked me to stand up and make a promise, and I promised him, but now, like this, the MPs are taking turns taking the words. Please... I'm only going to promise Adıyaman, because I promised him. After that, I'm going to vote. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0514par0403	Thank you, Mr. President. You made a statement to the Secretary of Defense about two soldiers, but a year and a half ago, a soldier named Seferstone was abducted on the border of Gaziantep. In various sites, or at work, the Russian news agency, like Sputnik, has ISIS, where he is imprisoned in Rakka, his family is extremely poor, and as far as I know, he has no financial power to contact you, and he has no means to do so, but in a year and a half, no news has been heard. Is he alive, at least? If you give him any intelligence on this, his family will probably be happy. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0515par0406	Mr. Secretary already told me. If there are such cases, he has already stated that if you report their names, he will do what is necessary. Thank you, Congressman friends.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0516par0408	Mr. President, this is a very human matter. As soon as we got to the Ministry, we formed a special study group on both the kidnapped soldiers and the kidnapped civilians. We're reaching out to their families, we're covering their victims, and on the other hand, we're constantly trying to get intel so that time doesn't pass and they don't get forgotten. We'll reach out to this family and do what we have to do.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0517par0409	Mr. Secretary, the ban on Surah continues, even though the conflict is over. There's something you can tell me about this...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0516par0410	It's over, it's over.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0518par0411	I have to put a stop to it, we're way out of time. I'd appreciate it if you'd answer in writing.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0519par0412	One sentence...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0518par0413	Okay, one sentence.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0519par0414	This is Zonguldak Alaplı, 4,112-year-old tree in Gümeli village... It's not just that tree, it's 2,000 years old, and it's 1,000 years old and it's protected by dirty badger trees. The study continues on Filyos. Friends will report the situation with the Chinese later.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0520par0417	Mr. President, I have a sentence to make.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0521par0418	Thank you. Members of lawmakers, I will now make you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the fifth round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Interior shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 4.366.570.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 1,211,514,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.502,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 250,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained GENEL TOPLAM 5.834.586,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Interior was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the State Department of Central Management account of 2015 will be transferred to the departments of...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0522par0439	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0521par0440	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Adıyaman, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Atalan, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Yiğitalp, Mr. Özküççe, Mr. Atash, Mr. Danış Beştaş, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Skillekli, Mr. Pir, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Dora, Mr. Çelik Özkan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2015 1) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2015 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2015 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account CULTURE AND TURISM ACTIVITY [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Terms "I") THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH WRITTEN [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Association 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2015 Central Management Final Account All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 12.605.435.969.55 Budget Expenses 7.278.495.868.62 Funds Expenses 14.645,86 Canceled Fund 5,220,787,282,73 Transferred to the Next Year 5,203,652.321,98 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Interior has been accepted into parts of the central administration's final account in 2015. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of 2017 be transferred to its sections: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 10.82) EMERGENCY GOVERNMENT 1) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 345.244.250 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 22.384,357,750 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 5,361,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 802.848,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 23.537.811.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2017 have been adopted. I'd like to submit to your votes that the central management account of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total grant 12,413,059,383,74 Budget Expenses 18,603,257,622,24 The grant goes to 6,889,675,490,71 Cancelled Fund 697.144.049.09 644,463,506,68 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Security General Directorate of 2015 has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management. Gen. General Command, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2017 be transferred to its sections: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 10:81) JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 179.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 9.371,714,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 2.846,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 9.374.739.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Gendarme General Command was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. Gen. General Command, I submit to your votes that the central administrative account of 2015 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 7,183,944,549,18 Budget Expenses 7.348.304.783.88 Compensation Expenses 728.998.557.52 Cancelled Grant 563,983,713,14 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 564,146,872,44 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Command of the Gendarme was adopted as part of the final account of the central administration of 2015. Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2017 be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 10:84.) KAMU SECURITY AND SAFENESS 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2017 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 17.857,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 17.857,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of Public Order and Security has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, I submit to your votes that the final account of central administration of 2015 be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 22.433,000.00 Budget Expenses 10,421,356,73 Canceled Grant 12,011,643,27 Transferred to the following year 405,888.00 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of Public Order and Security of the Central Management account of 2015 has been adopted. Coast Guard Command, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2017 be transferred to its sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 10:83 A.M.S.I.C.O.D. 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2017 03 Public Order and Security Services 649,761,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 649,761.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Coast Guard Command adopted parts of the central management budget in 2017 Coast Guard Command, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2015 will be transferred to its specific sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 553.029.930.08 Budget Expenses 458.161.838.91 Canceled allowance 94,864.945,13 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 87,075,641,55 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Coast Guard Command has been accepted into parts of the central management account in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Finnish Immigration Administration General Directorate will be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 10:85) GOVERNMENT OF GOVERNMENT 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 349.852,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 349.852,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Finnish Immigration Administration General Directorate of 2017 has been adopted into parts of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters of the Immigration Administration General Directorate: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 190,612,500,00 Budget Expenses 176,967,476,62 Canceled Fund 13.645.023.38 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Finnish Immigration Administration General Directorate of 2015 has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the national Ministry of Defence shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 337,910,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 28.347.564,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 12:057,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 4.588,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 28,702,119.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The national Ministry of Defence was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the National Defense Department of 2015 will take part in the final account of its central management account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) National Ministry of Defence 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 32,958,072,754,88 Budget Expenses 22,723,973,456,12 Compensation Expenses 11.674.030,28 Cancelled Fund 10.022.045.208,24 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 10.204.040.537.34 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The National Ministry of Defence of 2015 has been adopted into parts of the central administration's final account. I submit to your votes that the Defense Industry Undersecretary will be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 40.28) SURVIVATION INVESTIGATION 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary Central Management Budget 02 Defense Services 62,851.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 62,851.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 156,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences With Donations and Aids 100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 62.595,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 62,851.000 The Defence Industry Undersecretary has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. Defense Industry Undersecretary, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2015 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 61,150,500,00 Budget Expenses 57,268,918,70 Canceled Fund 3,881,581,30 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 49,643,000.00 Collection 60,865,324,12 Refuge and Returns 432.69 Net Collection 60,864.891,43 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Department of Defense Industry Undersecretary of the Central Administration of 2015 has been adopted as part of its final account. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2017 be taken into its sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 21) CULITOR AND TURISM LOOK 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 619.237,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 660,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 29.240,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 954,975,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 14,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,855,598,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 3.459.754,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism adopted parts of the central management budget in 2017. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2015, I would like to submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2015... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 2,682.253.541.42 Budget Expenses 2,316,148,884,18 Compromise Expenses 1,088,05 Cancelled Fund 365,928,597,42 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 260,550,686,97 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate will take part in the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.16) THE DEVLET OPERA AND THE BALL OF GOVERNMENT 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 25.515,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,300,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 349.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 257,726,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 286.880,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4,005,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 281,279.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,606,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 286.890.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The State Opera and Ballet General Directorate has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate of 2015 will take part in the final account of central management: those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 241,730,400,00 Budget Expenses 234.236.040.96 Canceled Fund 7.494.359.04 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 240,355,000.00 Collection 237.359.684.24 Rejections and Returns 3.153.00 Net Collection 237.356.531.24 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The State Opera and Ballet General Directorate of 2015 has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of State Theatres of 2017 be transferred to the central management budget of 2017: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 40.15) GOVERNMENT PRODUCTION 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 25.593,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 207,699.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 237.292,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 8.028,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 228.892,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 372,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 237.292,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of State Theatres was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. The General Directorate of State Theatres 2015, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central management of the year be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Terms (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 210,594,500,00 Budget Expenses 204.101.581.76 Canceled Fund 6.492.918.24 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 199,583.000,00 Collection 209.036.177.88 Refuge and Returns 390.00 Net Collection 209,035,787,88 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 has been adopted into parts of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the President of Turkey's Writers' Association shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who have not accepted... those who have not. 40.53) THE PRESIDENT OF THE ARRANGEMENT OF TURKEY 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Association 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 11.133,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,900,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 19,041,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 33.074,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 694,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 32,330,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 50,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 33.074,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of Turkey's Writers Association has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the President of Turkey's Writers' Association, the central management account of 2015, shall be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 30.074.145.00 Budget Expenses 27.611,781,57 Canceled Fund 2.462.363.43 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 27.236,000.00 Collection 29.637.508.52 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The chairmanship of Turkey's Writers' Association has been adopted as part of the central management account for 2015. Mr. Sky, come in. Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0523par0824	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, our Home Secretary just left, but we have other officers here. Mr. President, we have information that there have been two explosions in Istanbul, and it's starting to hit the news as well. If Mr. Secretary informs our House of information that there have been two major explosions, we'll be enlightened about the fallout. That's what I wanted to ask you, Mr. President. Thank you for your promise. If the Minister has a brief statement based on information that has reached him, we'll be happy to welcome it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0524par0828	Mr. Kerestecioglu, about the same thing?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0525par0829	On the same subject, in the same way...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0524par0830	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0525par0832	The information is coming in the same way, so we'd like to be enlightened if they've received any information.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0524par0833	Mr. Secretary, do you have any information? [[Noises]] Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0526par0837	At the very end of the game, at the end of the game, when the pro-Bursaspor fan is disbanded, after the pro-Bursaspor fan is disbanded, it is considered to be a bomb vehicle at the location of our riot squad police there. There are now nearly 20 wounded, dead, so we have no knowledge of the number of martyrs, which we hope will not happen. Our friends are at the crime scene, they're already giving us an update. Hopefully, it won't be a big thing, but it could be -2 separate explosions, it could be only one -- the first one is an explosion just below the hotel, which is just above it, an explosion, and a place called the freestep, which is called the Old Inöne Stadium, which is supposed to be there to watch the game right now, but it's not confirmed. Once we have the full confirmation of this information, we'll inform the public.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0527par0838	Are the wounded police or civilians, sir?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0526par0839	The wounded are police.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0528par0840	Is this an assault on a police vehicle?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0526par0841	I mean, it's an attack on the Riot Force bus, but, of course, it's a crowded area, after the game was over, but it's said that the Bursaspor fan was released, something that was done after the evacuation.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0528par0842	How many minutes ago was that, more or less?
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0526par0843	It's like 15 minutes, 20 minutes ago. Now my friends will make a full assessment. I hope nothing bad happens, but we'll keep the public informed. Get well soon.
tbmm-2016-12-10sit06spe0529par0846	I hope nothing's wrong. I'm really sorry for all of us. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2015 1) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2015 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2015 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Final Account CULTURE AND TURISM ACTIVITY [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Terms "I") THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH WRITTEN [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Association 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2015 Central Management Final Account Members of parliament, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the fifth round have been approved. I wish them well. Congressmans, the fifth round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Sunday (December 11th 2016) to discuss the budget and precise accounts of the institutions, respectively. I'm closing the assembly at 00, so I'll say good night.
