tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 95th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press voting buttons and report that they have been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidential office within three minutes, and do not leave the hall. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough numbers for a meeting, and we're starting negotiations. I wish you the best of luck to Mr Mustafa Elitaş and Mr Mehmet Mush, who have begun to serve as the group's vice president in the Justice and Development Party Group. I also wish Mr. Nurettin Canikli and Mr. Coshkun Çakır. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan who wants to speak about Artvin's problems. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0002par0021	Mr. President, I've been promised the problems of the high-value lawmakers, Artvin. I salute your grand delegation and our fellow citizens watching us on television. Artvin is a paradise in the northeast. I don't know if you've come or if you've seen it, but its nature, the sea, is a city blended with green. The poet speaks beautifully -- in your rows -- the former Governor of Artvin, Genghis Aydoğdu, says: "Artvin is a land next door to heaven. A non-Artvinian is describing Artvini in such a beautiful way. Other than that, the poet says: "Artvin is a lean young man. When you lean against the mountains, when you see the roughness of the plains, when you see the rain, the fog, the clouds, you see how beautiful a city is. This city has its problems, precious MPs, and I'll try to tell you in five minutes. One of them, as I said in my last speech here, is the world's largest Ataturk statue, the valued lawmakers at Artvin. There's a really great statue of Ataturk, 22 meters high. This statue of Ataturk was made by a notary brother. Unfortunately, this city, the city of energy, which we pride ourselves on dams, cannot shed light on this statue of Ataturk, the precious MPs. There's a sign under the statue of Ataturk. We're on your trail. Every citizen who comes to this republic's city of Artvin sees him, lit up by the light of Vezi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, but unfortunately, we cannot shed light on the greatest statue of Ataturk in the world. I asked the Minister how much electricity money we've spent. They spent $1,300 in 13 months. So with the lighting of a house, they light up a huge statue for $100 a month, and I just wanted to say that once again. Dear friends, one of the most important investments in Artvin, in a sense, I thank the government -- the Artvin Lifeguard Tunnel. Look, I was the mayor of our party on October 29, 2010, when the contract was made. Mr. Prime Minister, the Minister of Transport has arrived, at the groundbreaking ceremony in Deborka, they said: "How long will this tunnel be delivered?" (It will be delivered in nine hundred and ten days.) It was negotiated at the point and was committed by the producer company to deliver it for two years and two months. Friends, over six years have passed, seven years have passed, and Artvin's Tunnel of Life has not been built. The Artvins are waiting, asking, "When will the Lifesaver Tunnel take place?" I remember that negotiation pretty well. I'm speaking to the Prime Minister here: If you're negotiating when you call the representatives of all the contractors in all the tenders you've made, if they're the same as Artvin, then woe to your country! I'd like to rephrase that. There's one more important place, our airport, Artvin-Rize Airport, look. Now Osman Bey is laughing, I told him. Artvin-Rize Airport is very important. Dear MPs, look, an airport was built in Giresun and the Army -- good luck, thank you -- between the two provinces, which came to the center of the two provinces by a mile. But unfortunately, Artvin-Rize Airport is now 30 kilometers from Artvin, 30 km from Rize. The airport between Rize and Tripoli is 74 kilometers away. Now, how is this Rize-Artvin Airport? Tell us about it. Why is this Rize-Artvin Airport? All right, I'll take care of him. Make an airport in Rize, but don't confuse us. The location of the airport is between Rize and Arhavi in the middle of Artvin. Now, sir, it's not suitable for planes to land. An interesting solution is being set in front of us, and we can't accept it. I have a suggestion: If you have a problem with that, come and build the airport in the South, and everyone will be relieved, dear lawmakers. So we'd like to demonstrate our reservations about Rize-Artvin Airport. Not without Cerattepe's problems being discussed. Look, everyone's been silent at Cerattepe for two months. The expert doesn't report in. We know the expert has been interfered with, dear lawmakers. The judge is being interfered with as well as the expert witness. The Cerattepe expert doesn't report for nearly three months. You've changed the judges in the Rize Administration Court, you've changed the President of the Rize Court, and despite the court rulings in our favor, you're now saying: "Sir, recognize the decision that will come out of here, from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, from the Veterans to all Turkey to Turkey, I'm speaking to all Turkey: If there is a reverse decision from here, despite previous court decisions, if the President's Constitutional Court doesn't recognize its decisions, we will not recognize its decision on behalf of all Artvins. [[Applause from CHP rows]] From here, I also promised Cerattepe. No matter what happens, it's our conscience to take care of you, our debt of honor, our debt of honor. If we can't take care of you -- I've expressed it before -- let the water wash our funeral, let the earth be our tomb, let the trees be our coffin -- we will take care of you, we promise honor, honor from here. I'm ending my words with an Artvin promise. I say: I'll be mountain by mountain, sea by sea. I'll be the heart of the heart, the heart of the heart. The flag at the border, the Maviser at the Battle of Salvation. I'm freedom, I'm independence, I am Mt. Kokar, I am the mad horon. When the day comes, not atabar, I'll be Ataturk in Bigtepe. I am Artvin, my friends, not without me. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0003par0041	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0004par0042	Mr. President, for the record.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0003par0043	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0004par0044	The speaker told the MPs to come and answer. I'd like to make this statement.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0003par0045	Thank you, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0004par0046	Sir, for the record, that's the best place in the feasibility study.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0003par0047	The second non-responsored statement belongs to Konya MP Hadji Ahmet Özdemir, who wanted to mention that İstanbul's conquest was the 563th anniversary. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0005par0051	Mr. President, I salute all of you, the esteemed MPs and our dear people watching over the television. I have made a promise of the conquest of Istanbul. Of course, Istanbul is a beautiful city conquered in 857, May 29, 1453, and the Conqueror has opened a new era, ending a period of conquest in Istanbul. No success is random. Social events or historical cases cannot be reduced to a single reason. Hence, many people work behind this success, a nation has a tradition that lasts centuries, millenniums, has an understanding, an understanding. And Istanbul is conquered. Istanbul's conquest is defined as ίfethih. It's not an occupation, it's not an invasion; it's not an invasion; it's a claim of jihad to the dry, and it's not a claim to winning land, it's a claim to own a city. If you have to define it in one sentence, it's very wrong to describe it as something other than the act of removing barriers between man and Islam and this process. In Istanbul's conquest, there are traces of ancient history and the idea of the Jihan state. For him, the conquest of Istanbul means the Skyturks, which means the Great Bulgarian Inn, which means the Karahans, which means the Gaznians, and, of course, it means the Seljukites, and it means the Ottomans. For him, behind the conquest is Sheikh Edebali, Molla Gürani, Molla Fenari, Sinan Pasha, and Aksemsettin. Therefore, it is not right to impose the conquest on anyone, nor is it right to receive the rights of the Conqueror, because the name of the conquest is Sultan Mohammed Khan, and if you ask who is beyond all that, there is Muhammad the Lord. For when the prophet Hazreti came down to destroy the rock that had been cast down in the ditch, while he and his host were in a state of hunger, he gave the good news of the conquest of Istanbul in the midst of the rock. In fact, if you must say so, the Holy Prophet has landed that sledgehammer on the wall of Istanbul, not on the rock that stood in front of him when he was being dug. Thus, the prophet God also had an important part in this conquest to demonstrate the ideal. But we'll get to a sad point. People who call themselves intellectuals on social media, who are not really enlightened, who call themselves artists on social media, but who say they have nothing to do with art, should probably give an answer from here. Istanbul was supposed to have been conquered, invaded, invaded, an enlightened community, a barbaric people who fought against a great civilization, and those barbarians took Istanbul from the hands of the civilized. We're very sorry that these kinds of statements are on social media, and we're returning them to them as they are. And I would like to continue by saying that if you follow this logic, you will also define the War of Salvation as a struggle against the civilized. For the people who did the War of Salvation were the ones who wanted to save their country from the imperialists, the people who wanted to save it from the occupation, the people who wanted to save it from the invasion. If you consider the taking of Istanbul to be the rescue or take of a city from a civilized society, then why did you fight against these civilized people? I strongly condemn these social media statements, which are a manifestation of the concept of mandaism, and I salute you all, celebrating the conquest of Istanbul again.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0006par0059	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Adıyaman MP Behçet Yıldırım, who wants to talk about Adıyaman's problems. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0007par0064	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, today I have made a promise to address Adıyaman's problems. I salute the General Assembly and everyone who watches us on the screen. Adıyaman has a lot of problems. It's all about unemployment. Adıyaman is referred to as a farm town, so there is no need for statistical study, just to look at the proportion of coffee and tea stoves. Because of this unemployment, our people go to work as seasonal workers all over the country. In summer, our provinces and counties are practically empty. This nomadic life has an extremely negative impact on people's lives, the education of children is failing, dozens of people die on the road every year in traffic accidents, and where they go, they face racial and fascist pressures. The improvement of these unemployment policies in Adıyaman could be solved with a fair incentive system, but the incentive system has deteriorated where it can be improved. The new incentive law issued by the AKP government of the year in 2012 meant much to other regions of Turkey, and was almost a disappointment and destruction to Adıyaman. As is known, incentive laws are introduced to eliminate intergalactic economic inequality, imbalance, and laglessness. As the province of Adıyaman was ranked in accordance with the level of incentives developed by the new 2012 incentive law, it was taken as the fifth region of the province, a top region, more advanced than the districts of Şanlıurfa, Diyarbakır, Siirt, Batman, Mardin. What this means is that the Adıyaman manufacturer received incentives that were used by its industrialist by the previous incentive law, and was left with a productive victim. I'd like to give you a dramatic example under this ridiculous and mentally lacking law. Şanlıurfa, a neighbour of Adıyaman, is in the sixth district of Şanlıurfa, whose waterable agricultural areas and capital are more powerful than Adıyaman. An employer pays $40 SGK for a worker in Şanlıurfa, while Adıyaman pays $400 for a worker, so even investments in Adıyaman are shifting to Şanlıurfa. Again, there is a setback in any sector that is thought to be developed by this incentive law, which has not been improved. As part of mining, marble furnaces were opened, and Adıyaman's nature was slaughtered with these marble furnaces. Many mountains have been destroyed in our province, the water supply of villages in the vicinity of marble furnaces has dried up, and the farmland has been badly damaged. In short, these marble furnaces have brought nothing but destruction. Moreover, marbles that have been removed are being shipped to different cities. Heavy-tonned vehicles have made roads a mole's nest. Adıyaman has Turkey's worst network of roads. Again, those who try to get people to emigrate from their homeland by building security dams at great cost in mountain villages do damage to our province rather than benefit them. Alternate energies must be harnessed by the sun, wind energy. In our province, more grain products are grown, alternative products should be supported and encouraged. The application for tobacco quotas must be reviewed. The AKP has not even implemented a cost-free project on the watering of lowland villages, agricultural land. We can't benefit from the Ataturk Dam next door -- which this Ataturk Dam has flooded a town and dozens of villages -- almost wiped them off the map. Landwatering projects in the Ataturk Dam area, Baby 1, Baby 2 Projects must be implemented immediately. These projects, which have very little cost, must be made available to our farmers, who, by their own means, move to watery agriculture, to make cheap use of electricity energy. Switching to watery agriculture would be the most important investment in changing the fate of Adıyaman's environment, eliminating unemployment. We do not have enough use for our country and other historical and cultural heritage on its route, which has a certain significance in the world's cultural heritage. Faith tourism must be developed in Adıyaman. We have the potential to attract tourists for 12 months of the year, but unfortunately we can't. The reason is that our roads are very bad, that air transport is inadequate and expensive. Tourism Week was recently celebrated in Adıyaman. The fact that there's not only a manager and a tourist should make us all think deeply. Of course, the main reasons for tourism's decline in the last two or three years are that our Adıyaman's name is called ISIS. The victims of their children's families, Adıyaman public and gangs, who have been publicly allowed to operate and organize despite all our warnings, have been organized from here to become live bombs in Diyarbakir, Suruç, Ankara and Istanbul, killing hundreds of innocent people. As a result, the historical and cultural brand Adıyaman lost its image and became known by ISIS. The city of Adıyaman and the people of Adıyaman were damaged. The AKP is in charge of this situation, and its local bureaucratic and political representatives are responsible. Again, according to the TÜİK results, we are 78th in 81 counties, and we are ranked 64th in education. Adıyaman has given many things to the right and most of all to the AKP but has never received any response, Adıyaman must be taken from the AKP. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0008par0076	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The non-responsibility talks of the three MPs for five minutes are over. Now, I'm going to take turns making a commitment to 15 people, from the members of lawmakers who have entered the electronic system and asked for a word. I'm starting the promise process. Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0009par0083	The conquest of Istanbul, which we celebrate with enthusiasm and pride this year in the patronage of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is one of the greatest victories in the history of the world with political, economic, social and cultural consequences far beyond military success. After the conquest of Istanbul, our glorious profession has shown the whole world what Islamic civilization is. Today, our country, hosting Syrian brothers and sisters who had to take refuge in our country because of the war, teaches the whole world a lesson in humanity. The determination, intelligence, and determination of Sultan Mehmet Khan will continue to set an example for generations after us. I believe our country will be the world's greatest power again until the 600th year of Istanbul's conquest. With these feelings and thoughts, hiding behind the artist's adjectives, I condemn the ignorants who tried to insult our profession, with the help of Sultan Mehmet Khan the Conqueror and his glorious army, from Malazzirt to Plevne, from Çanakkale to Kutülamare, from the Great Attack to Korea, from Cyprus to counter terrorism, and from Cyprus to all our martyrs who gave their lives for this nation one more time with mercy and respect.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0008par0085	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0010par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. On 22 May 2016, Coast Guard teams were dispatched to the scene after a fisherman reported that two people were lying still in a boat off the coast of Samandağ district of Hatay Province, Çevlik Beach. One of our soldiers was killed and one of our fishing citizens was injured in the explosion when the Coast Guard teams examined the boat called Tuesday. I ask for God's mercy on our martyr. The explosion was said to have been caused by a bomb device, but the incident has yet to be fully illuminated. I demand that the work be expedited so as to clarify which person, persons or organisations are responsible for this incident. Our people are anxious, our people are anxious, and I demand that the efforts to relieve this anxiety and anxiety be followed at once. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0011par0091	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0012par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the Chamber of Architects and the Ministry of Culture and Tourism signed forty-nine years of protocol. It's rented under this protocol, the Star Palace Outpost Building, but the Outer Police Station is unlawfully... which is why, of course, here, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism has single-handedly annulled this contract, as the room performs its duties within the framework of democratic rights and freedoms. The annulment of this contract is against the law. Although a mistrial has been filed in the administrative court, Mr. Ministry has tried to evacuate this place in violation of the law by instructing the İstanbul Governorate, the municipality and the police. Resistance chamber officials have been detained. We demand that the room authorities be released from custody immediately, and that this evacuation process be halted, and that the contract be respected. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0013par0096	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0014par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Because of this natural disaster, the vineyards of Mersin, Tarsus, Erdemlı, and Silifke were severely damaged, especially in Turkey, where they produced a third of the table grapes. We demand that this area be declared a disaster zone immediately, that agricultural loans and agricultural loans be delayed, that farmers in the region be paid without Social Aid before Ramadan, that the Suma Factory be opened and the base price be announced immediately. Otherwise, the farmer in the region is in real trouble; they don't have any other products per year; they only deal with grape farming, and the damage is about 80 percent. In addition, most farmers in this region do not have agricultural insurance because they have property problems. As for those who don't have agricultural insurance, the county's agricultural directorates are in place, waiting for them to help the farmers again, and I give them my regards.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0015par0102	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0016par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. We are witnessing the government's joint operation against the Chamber of Architects, known for its struggle for the interests of nature and society, along with those who side with the natural and environmental massacrers. 16 room managers have been taken into custody today, arguing that the evacuation order from the building, which the Istanbul Chamber of Architects has rented for forty-nine years, is unlawful and resisting unlawful conduct. There is a case filed by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism demanding that the building be evacuated by the room. However, this case is not yet concluded. Today, on the anniversary of the Gezi, detentions after the government-sponsored operation into the Chamber of Architects and the legal process are not allowed to be carried out by police force for a short period of time. The government condemns this operation, and I share our presence in the Chamber of Architects.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0017par0109	Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0018par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. So, first of all, three years ago these days, I honor the Travel Resistance and its martyrs, who are a symbol of the struggle against oppression and dictatorship, for their lifestyle, freedom, nature, human beings. These days, power continues to press on in every field, contrary to people's preferences. For example, the Şehit Bahadir Tayfur Elementary in Karacabey district of Bursa is trying to be converted into an imam-hatip secondary school, despite the fact that every parent has been opposed for days and acts. Again, primary school students in Iznik district are being surveyed against freedom of religion and have your children attended Koran courses? We demand the power to end these pressures. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0019par0116	Mr. Starsniper...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0020par0118	I salute the resistance of June. Three years ago, the resistance of June became the voice, word, and politics of those who wanted to defend their homeland against reactionary, oppressive, and dark forces. June's resistance was a demand for a meeting on the streets, to break down this reactionary order that was founded on looting, looting, and theft. The resistance of June continues throughout the country in Cerattepe, in the struggle for secularism and in rebellion against child abuse. It was a moment, and it came and passed. We will not leave the land to the oppressors and the tyrants, in spite of those who said, "It has passed away." The people are multiplying every day. Three years later today, the path of the United June Resistance is the path of those who cry for freedom and the beautiful children we lost in June. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0021par0123	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0022par0125	Mr. President, in Malatya, it has been hailed for the past week, Malatya centrally linked to Fat, Kuluşı, Hakver, Karatepe, Çalaklı, Bulgurlu, Farm, Beydakü, Kapatkaya, Ankara, and Battalgazi, and in an important part of the region, Sinanlı, who was bound by the Army, Dede Karbün, Balaban, Eğribük, Tecirli, Bahzilievli, and, unfortunately, has also been effective in the neighborhoods of Baharlievler. The full event, which began on May 24th, also destroyed the apricots in Malatya after the frosting of the past period. Also, unfortunately, many of the manufacturers here have not been able to insure their products from TARSEM, because of the height of the prices in TARSIM, and unfortunately TARSIM is trying to pay by detecting the damages before Ramazan. And they say they've been detected in a very small amount. Unfortunately, the apricot manufacturers in Malatya have been in a difficult position both on March 17th and April 21st, and on account of the hail last week.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0021par0127	Mr. Tiger Liberty...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0023par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. In carrying out their patriotic services, we have the sons of a country who were injured in the conflicts with terrorist organizations during the operations that have been launched, forgotten by their state, and ignored even though it is known. Some are missing fingers, some are fighting for their lives with shrapnel in their bodies. Our sons, who mourn the loss of their friend in combat, who try to live with a terrorist bullet in their heart, are not even given a vet's salary, not even a veteran's honor. We would like to ask here when thousands of heroic veterans who suffered permanent damage to their bodies will be awarded the medals they deserve and the title of veteranship.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0021par0131	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0024par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. The person sitting in the chair of the presidency said that on the founding anniversary of a foundation, it was a population plan, it was a birth control, and no Muslim family could be in such an understanding. Aren't all men and women who plan families, including female lawmakers, Muslim? Anyone who claims to be the head of state has no right to traumatize society like this. The president's main duty is to represent the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the Turkish nation. The president must immediately stop interfering in the public bedroom and get back to work. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0025par0136	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0026par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. For soil analysis, the Ministry of Agriculture website states that the most accurate use of fertilizer is fertilizer based on soil or leaf analysis. As a result of soil or leaf analysis, the laboratory recommends the type of fertilizer and the amount of use needed to be used. You may also benefit from having your soil analysis done by the Ministry in authorized labs and paying for land analysis support if you are registered with the Farmer's Recording System. This support, which has been paid at $2.5 per black lira, has been removed from the Ministry of Agriculture's website, despite how important land analysis is. I hereby condemn the removal of soil analysis support, which promotes the use of conscious fertilizer, not in the way the farmer wants, but in the sense that the crops and soil encourage the use of fertilizer.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0025par0140	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0027par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Faruk Çelik is: The decree that has been issued in the past weeks and the power companies have been stripped of their jobs by you. In a nutshell, there will be no support payments for farmers who owe agricultural irrigation electricity. What is the reason for this scandalous decision? Instead of supporting our farmers who are already struggling with a thousand challenges, why are you turning them down? Besides, the price of electricity used in agricultural irrigation is almost the same as the price of households, aren't you going to lower those prices? Why do normal households have to pay the price? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0028par0145	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0029par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications: Mr. Minister, their flights between the Sivas-Divric have been canceled due to the maintenance of the mail train, which has been carrying passengers and cargo for years. In many villages of Divrik, Kangal and Transport districts, our countrymen, who use the postal train by necessity, often and in some villages, are suffering a great deal. And since the rail that works between the Sivas-Divri has not stopped in these villages, what solution do you have for the removal of these victims of our citizens who live in these villages and are victims? I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0030par0150	Mr. Selina Dogan, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0031par0152	Mr. President, thank you. We'd like to repeat it once again as a matter of inflammatoryness and the fact that the victims are still in custody at the Istanbul Security Directorate. In accordance with the protocol signed by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Architects' Chamber of Architects wanted to enter the building which was earmarked against the law and forced to enter the building at around ten o'clock this morning under the order of İstanbul Governorate of Metropolitan Municipality and Beşiktaş Security Directorate. A mistrial has been filed for a mistrial of the unlawful evacuation process, and a criminal complaint will be filed against those who carried out the procedure. This procedure, in the 3rd year of the Gezi Resistance, is intrinsical, and ill-intentioned, and against the law. We demand that our detained friends be released as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0032par0155	Mr. Hursit Yıldırım.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0033par0157	Mr. President, thank you. It's a scenario for those who want to stop our progress in the best part of the economic indicators of the Republic of Turkey to try to travel. No one can take the trip as an innocent protest. Our cities were looted, city furniture burned down, our security forces and public buildings were attacked. Some are innocent, some are deluded, but some are provocateurs, and some are attackers of our nation's national will. We haven't forgotten that reporters like CNN, BBC, who are now silent while Paris is on fire, dress up as if there is a war in Turkey, make live broadcasts and the perception operation at this point. It is not a good approach to view the country's interference, chaos, the attempted invasion of Istanbul's most important centre as an act of normal protest by terrorist organizations, and to say, "Oh, God!" The anniversary initiatives of the trip are the aim of keeping the potential blow against national will alive and should never be accepted.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0032par0159	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who are demanding a word. The first word is Mr. Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0034par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. In recent days, the presidents of the high judicial body attended a trip and meetings of the President in Rize. As there were tea gathering sessions here, they also applauded the political speeches made by the president of this high judicial body. As with the finger of the blind eye, the government's spokesman, Mr. Numan Survival, said the other day that the ruling institution and its institutions are ultimately tied to the presidential office, which is the highest office in the state of the Republic of Turkey. These words are politically incorrect, as they are in a state of unconsciousness. The duties and powers of the presidents are counted in Articles 104 and 105. However, Mr. President, as everyone knows and himself has confessed, he has lost his neutrality and is openly partying. I mean, he's partying beyond politics, and these images are images of legislation, judgment, politicalization of executives. However, according to our Constitution, when we consider Articles 138, 139, 140, 154, 155, 160, the judiciary is independent. This is an image that clearly restores judicial independence. In particular, we recommend that these presidents, representing their jurisprudence, cease to play ball in political organizations.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0032par0167	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Akchay. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0034par0169	Another important issue was a banquet and open-air meeting in İstanbul on 29 May, under the name of Mr. President, President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and Mr. Prime Minister. This political meeting has been transformed into a political show rather than a conquest feast, and after the feast, Turkish flags have been thrown out, chewed out by those attending the rally and laid on the ground. That area was left that way, and a lot of photos were in the press about it. At the same time, members of the National Movement Party's Fatih District have gathered these flags with an organization. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I strongly condemn this disrespect to our flag, and from now on, we strongly advise that they do not face such ugly images. This is not the first time, but in many of AKP's rallies, unfortunately, our flags have been thrown down and chewed underfoot. I resent it, I wire it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0035par0174	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0036par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers began three years ago in Travel Park, one of the most valuable resistances in the history of Turkey. They had adopted this honour and dignity resistance against AKP's authoritarian, oppressive, antidemocratic practices; against capital against labour; against policy that prioritizes numbers; against women, against young people, against all the cruel policies of society. We don't believe that travel resistance is in a historical section, that it's over, that it's a struggle for resistance that needs to be remembered, that there's an honorable process of resistance going on, and that today it's still being owned by millions against all the oppressive practices of the palace and AKP power. In this way, we welcome the Resistance as the People's Democratic Party, Mehmet Ayvallıtaş, Abdullah Generous, Ethem Sarısüluk, Medeni Yıldırım, Ali İsmail Kormaz, Ahmet Atakan, Berkin Elvan and Hasan Ferit Gedik. Mr. President, two nights ago there was the second Roboski massacre attempt in the village of Roboski in Şırnak province, and unfortunately we lost two Roboski boys in this second attempt. We want to express that we consider the murder of two young men in the same place as a message of unresolved resolution and war, and condemning that mentality, just as it refreshes the memory of the first Roboski massacre.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0037par0183	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0036par0184	On the other hand, our Şırnak MP, Farhat Encu, has been facing a major obstacle for two days to visit the first-degree relatives he lost in Roboski. Despite all attempts by the Home Secretary, the Speaker of Parliament and the Undersecretary of Public Security, an MP is facing a situation that cannot go to the condolences of a first-degree relative, which I would like to present to the General Assembly and the public. Four of our civil citizens were killed yesterday in an explosion in Silopi, and nearly 30 others were injured. We would like to point out that there have always been civilians, the greatest victims of the war and the most oppressed. As the People's Democratic Party, condemning all attacks that resulted in civilian casualties so far, undiscriminately, in principle, I'd like to point out that we also condemn this attack that took place yesterday in Silvio. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I would like to extend my condolences to all our lost citizens, God's mercy, and to the people of Silopi, and to all our families.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0038par0188	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0039par0191	Mr. President, thank you very much. Today is the third anniversary of the Travel. We're on the anniversary of one of the most important civil resistances in society, our friends who've been using our group proposals during the week, a proud public resistance that has been initiated against nature, the Justice and Development Party's aim to turn everything around, against nature, against the environment, and against those who oppose it, before their hatred, then violence and women, and a language that alters everyone else. On this anniversary, he's making a reference to the Justice and Development Party and the bureaucracy under his command. One of the key components of the travel resistance is the announcement that came in the hours of yesterday to evacuate the outer outpost building, which was rented to the Chamber of Architects for forty-nine years -- a review by the Justice and Development Party -- which is an application for our deputies to be asked to evacuate, to be activated, to be given time, even to be given a certain amount of property to the truck -- which is started with the siege launched by the 4 TOMA (A) on its anniversary by the Justice and Development Party, and to still feel pressure in the bones. The detentions of Mucella Maker and Chamber of Architects President Eyup Muhcu, and again, we stress that the resistance of Emek Cinema should be terminated immediately, as well as the voluntary and insolvent detention of both Validebagan Korsu and Soma's attorneys. Mr. President, these events and what happened today put Turkey in a difficult position, indeed, in the world's public. But I would like to submit to the knowledge of the High Council...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0040par0195	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0039par0196	These events put Turkey in a very difficult position in the domestic, especially in the international arena. Mr. President, I'd like to bring to the attention of the Grand Assembly where the new people of Turkey have dropped Turkey: A Theatre Festival was held in Croatia recently by the UNESCO International Theatre Institute. Those who went to this festival were invited by UNESCO's budget. New Turkey's State Theatres, the new Deputy General Director Nejat Birecik and İstanbul State Theatres Director Zafer Kayaokay attended. Costs paid, but a letter was sent to Turkey by UNESCO. The two names who participated in the letter on behalf of Turkey didn't participate in any organization, they came to Zagreb for a tourist trip, they demanded interpreters and hosts because they didn't know the language about it, they didn't participate in any official event, and they devalued UNESCO's money, Turkey's reputation... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...they've been complained to Turkey by saying so. We ask the Justice and Development Party and the Government to inform the Supreme Assembly of the launch of measures, measures and investigations on this issue.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0041par0200	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0042par0203	Mr. President, thank you. It's been three years since the trip, a coup attempt. Basically, Turkey is not the new of such illegitimate attempts at legitimate, elected powers by the people, and it is not the first, I hope it will be the end. Basically, it's not just an incident in Turkey. In countries that are developing democracy like ours, the government that the public supports doesn't work for their own interests, attempts to overthrow such protested actions are happening in other countries. The point is that someone may have set out as a protestive act by calling it the love of the tree, the love of the environment, someone like that, but it's the illegal organizations that gave the movement its basic dynamic and led it, and our people have seen it very clearly. There is only one way to change power in Turkey, and that is by choice. That's for the public to decide. Those who think they can round up three people in the street and change power, lick their palms, lick their hands in the past, and then they'll keep licking them. Human history evolved from street to parliament. Parliament is a place that civilizes and tames the struggles for power, which allows it to continue in such an environment. In Turkey, unfortunately, we see that the Parliament has been winking at the street again in a reactionary manner. We don't approve of that. Whoever wants to be in power in this country will go to the people, deal with them in legitimate ways, get out of the chest, and become one. I've collected three people in the street, I've called them trees, I've called them environments, I've arm-in-arms with illegal organizations, I'll get a political engineering degree out of here. I condemn and condemn the approaches in their style, they're not true. After all, in this country, all matters will be discussed, discussed...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0043par0209	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0042par0210	...where the problems will be solved, where any person who has whatever kind of stone on their skirt will spill it. And I'm really surprised that the parties in Parliament are interested in actions that have gone through this kind of protestal, blood-soaked, coup attempt, in the name of democracy and freedom, and I can't put them in a place like this. Besides, at that time -- you know -- there were calls on the street all the time. I've got to think, what would happen if everyone in this country went out on the street? Because of God, wise people did not go out into the street, and we soon saw adventurers being turned off the streets. Democratic protests are a right, but coup attempts are in no way acceptable to any politics that considers themselves the address of legitimacy, not legitimate, not to be tolerated. On the other hand, Mr. President is not a party president, but a figure representing the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0044par0213	He says he's part of the party.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0042par0214	It is wrong, unfortunate, to see them present a social event with their president, representing justice in Rize. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0045par0216	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. We're going on the agenda.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0046par0218	Mr. President, Mr. Bostanci used some statements in his speech on our assessment of the travel resistance and June resistance. Our friends will talk about it on the stand during our group proposal. However, in those days, Mr. Bostanci, in the beginning of this incident, the trees there, under the name of nature's slaughter, instead of the AVM, would not search for fascist governments, which were created by the civil initiatives to prevent the construction of the AVM, which were led directly by the People's Justice and Development Party in İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, we have raised the position that the tents were burned, that the resistance there was proved to be a different dimension, and that the community's common conscience had been activated there, and that the culture of the AKP would have lost its life in order to use force directly against civilians and vulnerable citizens.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0045par0220	Thank you, Mr. Special. It's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0047par0222	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0045par0223	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0047par0224	Let's get him on record. I also condemn Free Bey, and since we are condemning him, Once this trip was a coup attempt, the whole world knew it, and it came out in the trunk.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0048par0227	The President made the coup. Why didn't you make a sound? On May 4th, the President did the coup.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0047par0228	It's obvious what the public is saying. Now, what he's talking about is -- getting into tents in the morning -- it's a provocation, it's an absolute provocation about him.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0049par0230	Tell me if the big city cops did it or not.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0047par0231	The role of the ruling authorities... whether it's political power or the mayor, of course it's going to contact the public, meet the people, and take them in that frame. It's a dark event. But it was the tree, not the tent. It is said by those already attending the trip, and it is likely that Ozgur Bey is missing it. On the other hand, I find it very wrong for him to evaluate the EC PARTY with a statement that would convey such fascism.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0049par0233	I'll admit it's a little light.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0047par0234	Our people will not pass on fascism; they will not give on this day, they will not give on this day, they will not give on this day, they will not give on this day, they will never give on this day.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0050par0235	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0047par0236	Tomorrow the fascists won't come to power here. AK PARTY is a democratic power that represents the will of the people.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0050par0238	Thank you. Your word has already been made, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0047par0240	So, the matter of respect, respect for the EC PARTY is respect for the people, respect for the people.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0051par0241	Mr. Naci, even if you say two words about these flags getting under your feet...
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0050par0242	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0052par0243	Mr. President, I don't intend to abuse your good intentions. However, the statements used by Mr. Bostancı have been appropriate for the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality's police officers to refer to the incident as provocation, which began with the burning of these tents. In your chain of command, a civil resistance is a provocation by AKP and its bureaucrats to attract a peaceful civil resistance that has earned all the world's appreciation for Turkey. I also agree with him in his objection to the statement that had just evolved towards fascism, yes, that there was a very slight definition of my purpose, and that it should be described as fascism. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0050par0245	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0053par0247	And I refuse, in the name of the people, in the name of the people!
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0050par0248	Well, thank you, Mr. Botanci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures that should be taken by illegal and fake production of all kinds of consumer goods and due to the consumption of them, we propose and propose the opening and opening of Parliamental research on the 98th and 104th and 105th Articles of our Constitution, on the basis of which it is incumbent on the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Erzurum]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] 6) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] [[Osmaniye]] 11) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Kayseri]] [[Isparta]] [[Inconceived]] 17) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] 18) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] In recent years, virtually every day, false foods, underground productions, illegal food production images have been released to the press. The public no longer has confidence in the consumption of food. The additives to illegal meat, horse, donkey meat, fake honey, cheese, sausage, sausage, bread, and so on have serious effects on human health, and even such foods are lethal by the authorities of science. Despite the fact that our security forces have signed major operations, recent fatal events have shown that the question's importance remains vital. False liquors, counterfeited foods, contraband meat products, and other products that are sold for money are causing our citizens to lose their lives or suffer permanent health problems. False, illegal, and counterfeit goods also do serious damage to the country's economy and human health. The lack of common hygiene rules and the use of carcinogen substances seriously threaten human health. This affects public health directly. The labors of companies who are victims of counterfeit goods are abused and the motivations of honest-working companies are broken due to unfair competition. False goods and counterfeit products and non-registers are seriously increasing, tax losses are occurring, and the country's image is affected internationally, which reduces the capital entry of companies that care about branding. All these counterfeit and illegal consumer goods are produced by humans. Similar problems occur in other countries, but in those countries, non-registers are not allowed because laws are binding and control is serious. In our country, it is unfortunate that the laws in general are not enforced and that the audits are inadequate, and that our work is often conducted in the relationship of fellow sergeants, so there is no healthy supervision. For reasons mentioned above, a parliamentary investigation is necessary, especially in Istanbul and Izmir, with the aim of identifying measures that should be taken by investigating the production of illegal and fake consumption materials and deaths in many of our provinces. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, we respectfully propose the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104, and 105, of the Constitution's 98th and Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution, in order to investigate the conditions of sick prisoners and prisoners and determine the changes to be made to harmonise the conditions of evacuation with international standards. 1) Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Meral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Pain]] [[Pain]] 7) The Leader of the Secret [[Ankara]] 8) Ayşe Acar Başaran [[Batman]] 9) Mehmet Ali Aslan [[Batman]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hakkari]] 23) Mehmet Emin Adıyaman [[Lug]] [[İstanbul]] International contracts, such as the International Convention on Political Rights and Freedoms of the United Nations, and the "European Penal Code," guarantee that prisoners and prisoners will be treated in the honor of the people. The Human Rights Association, such as the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey and many international NGOs, stressing that the treatment of sick prisoners and prisoners in particular in Turkey does not meet those standards, while the European Bill of Human Rights has been violated "the right to life" and "the right to protection from torture" and torture has been normalized in prisons. The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) condemned and condemned Turkey in many cases related to inhuman conditions in prisons. However, many prisoners still remain in prisons where they must be released due to health conditions. According to the Human Rights Association's data as of today, there are 300 heavy, 757 sick prisoners in prisons. In January 2013, with a change in the Law on the Execution of Penalty and Security Measures, the conditions of not being dangerous for public safety for delaying the execution of sick prisoners have been brought to the Forensic Medicine Association for health reasons and the decision to postpone the execution has been handed down. As a result of the changes and political decisions made by the Forensic Medical Association and the state-run prosecutors of the Republic, it is even more difficult to delay the punishments of political prisoners. According to the Human Rights Association's December 2014 report, many cancer patients are among the infected. The lack of immune systems in isolation is causing the risk of cancer to increase and the cancer to fast-track. With torture and maltreatment, poor prison conditions, poor nutrition, poor sports, and stress in prisons, again, respiratory problems, immune problems, cancer, heart attack, heart failure, are causing some major diseases. The demands for hospital transport of prisoners who are in severe condition and without treatment in the prison infirmary are often rejected or accepted demands are postponed on grounds of physical conditions. They're being taken to the hospital where they're being transported in reverse handcuffs and their treatments are in handcuffs. Prisoners and prisoners are deprived of the necessary treatment for their health and are only suspended when they reach the limit of death. For example, Huseyin Yıldırım, a member of the Student Youth Union (GENC-SEN) in Antalya L Type Closed Prison, was diagnosed with partial paralysis, which is said to be caused by microbial causes, and partial paralysis is progressing day by day. Moreover, although the prison's physical conditions have been justified and has been placed in isolation in the one-man ward, the prison has not yet initiated the transfer process to the hospital. Similarly, 19 patients in Van M Type Prison have been referred to our side of which 19 prisoners and prisoners have been placed in the same ward, where verbal abuse, insults and pressure has been imposed, which has been banned from social activities and has been kept in solitary confinement. As it is known, December 19th is called "The Day of Fighting for Human Rights and Solidarity in prison" in memory of the massacre of 30 prisoners protesting the isolation conditions of F-type prisons. Unfortunately, prisoners today still have to fight against the same practices. Long imprisonment in Turkey has become a punishment on its own. The prisoner is already serving a sentence, and prison conditions should not be made a second punishment for him. The situation of sick prisoners and prisoners is a human matter that requires that every political party act together, regardless of political trends. Patient rights are the rights to be implemented more carefully for those in prison and to be secured by legal regulations by the Council of Europe's recommendation. For these reasons, it is imperative that parliamentary research be opened in Turkey in order to determine the conditions of sick prisoners and prisoners and the changes that can be made to harmonise the conditions of evacuation with international standards. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On July 25, 2015, six Syrian nationals who had been treated in various hospitals in Turkey were taken into custody at the guesthouse in the headquarters of ÜTİM-SEN, and released on the grounds that there were no criminal elements after being taken into custody by Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. But after that, these six wounded were handed over to El Nusra, a terrorist organization in Syria based on the Ministry of Interior. Although released by the Public Prosecutor's Office, six asylum seekers have been subjected to war crimes extradition in violation of national and international contracts, who have been severely injured following ISIS attacks, who have taken refuge in Turkey for treatment. We demand and demand that Parliament investigate the Constitution's 98th, Parliamentary Council Article 104th and 105th Articles be opened in order to be exposed in all dimensions of this unlawful and immoral procedure and to inform the public of the outcome of the wounded. 22/12/2015 [[Şanlıurfa]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Meral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Pain]] [[Pain]] 7) The Leader of the Secret [[Ankara]] 8) Ayşe Acar Başaran [[Batman]] 9) Mehmet Ali Aslan [[Batman]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hakkari]] 23) Mehmet Emin Adıyaman [[Lug]] [[İstanbul]] A unlawful police raid has been launched on July 25, 2015 in Ankara's EğİMİM-SEN guesthouse and six Syrian citizens in Ankara have been taken into custody for treatment during this raid. Ahmet Sherko, Ömer Qadir, Reber Seyho, Ehmed Helum, Cemal Ehmed and Beşir Mihemed were questioned by Ankara Anti-Terror Bureau on July 26, 2015, and later sent by Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office to release their statements and release them within the scope of investigation 2015/107840. The information that six Syrian citizens were handed over to the Al-Qaeda front, on Turkey's list of terrorist organizations, was publicly known as an extension of Al-Qaeda, in a violation of law and moral action after being released by the republic's chief prosecutor. This information has also been verbally confirmed by our group's chairman, calling the Undersecretary of the Interior. The deaths of the six wounded who took refuge in Turkey are unknown after their surrender to El Nusra from the Fringe Gate. At the moment, these wounded, unknown at the moment, have crossed Turkey through border crossings and official permits, as stated in their statement in law enforcement and the state's attorney general's office. The wounded with foreign introduction documents issued by the AFAD have stated that they have been treated in various hospitals near the Syrian border in Turkey using official IDs, that they have come to Ankara to continue their treatments, and that they have settled in the EDUTIM-SEN guesthouse. In the same statement, they also stated in Kobani that ISIS was injured in its attacks on civilians and that they saw it as a cure for their treatment in Turkey. It should be noted that in addition to the basic domestic legal regulations for deportation while the deportation decision is being carried out in Turkey, the European Convention on Human Rights shall be considered, especially the additional protocols of the European Convention on Human Rights, and the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, which implements them. In other words, the ECHR is obliged to ensure that the entity states do not face situations such as death penalty, torture and inhumane treatment in the country in which the deported person will be sent. Article 33 of the United Nations Geneva Convention of 1951 also mentions the same thing, and according to the non-refoulement ban, the race of refugees or asylum seekers organises that life and freedom should not be returned to countries where there is a threat to a religious, citizenship, social group or political thoughts. In this minivalde, it is a clear crime to extradite these six wounded, who have come to Turkey with their own consent, to make their records in an official institution, in a situation in which they need treatment, in which the conditions of war are very serious, their lives will be in grave danger. However, it is clear that the extradition procedures were deliberately made from Cilve-Eye, not from Ceylanpınar, Suruç border crossings, and that the wounded were handed over to El Nusra terrorist organization, the side of the conflict, which is hostile to them, are being violated by national law, international law, human rights law. On the one hand, Turkey's attitude towards people who have had to emigrate from their countries from the other side and who are injured and who have taken refuge in Turkey in the official way is contrary to national and international law norms as well as conflicting. In this minival, we find it necessary to investigate and clarify the process of deportation on the basis of what legal norms and to prevent such violations from being repeated. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, Sivas MP Mehmet Habib Soluk and Tokat MP Yusuf Whiteıt have reached our presidency on May 31, 2016. It has been presented to your knowledge. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly In Brussels, Belgium's capital, the European Parliament's Pre-Accession Action Unit on 30-31 May 2016 will hold a seminar under the parliamentary inter-accession conference programme for EU enlargement countries titled "Intertegration between Political Groups, Parties and Governments in the EU." The issue of accession to these seminars is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0054par0437	We'll request a roll call, sir, before the vote.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit01spe0050par0438	There's a request for a roll call before the vote, and now I'm going to make that request. First, I will identify the members of the MPs who have filed the request by name: Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Bozkurt, Mr. Elif Doğan Türkmen, Mr. Aşek, Mr. Akkuş Ilgezdi, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Yım, Mr. Tamaylıyık, Mr. Akkaya, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Berberoğlu, Mr. Bakır, Mr. Bakır, Mr. Tuncer. Yeah, I'm starting the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-31sit02spe0050par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 95th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the presidential motion was voted, the roll call was not enough. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] The meeting's not enough, so I'm shutting it down. Under the decision taken, it is Wednesday (June 1st 2016) that we discuss the bill and proposals in order to discuss other tasks from the commissions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
