tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. Members of parliament, today we will hold final talks on the 2016 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2014 Central Management Conspiracy Bill. So far, we thank all of our deputies, our bureaucrats, who have contributed to the work, both in the Commission and in the General Assembly talks. I'm already praying that the 2016 budget will be a blessing and auspicious to our nation, our country. We're going on the agenda. According to the programme, we begin the final talks on the 2016 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2014 Central Management Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, the decision made in the General Assembly's 41st Union of February 18, 2016 was agreed that at the end of the budget talks, the commitment to groups and the government for one hour and that the time should be used by more than one speaker, and that two personal talks on behalf of Article 86 of the Civil Code should be ten minutes. Now, I read the names of the members of the members of the group and members of the People's Movement Party Group: Erkan Akçay, Manisa MP; Atila Kaya, İstanbul MP; Garo Paylan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Çağlar Demirel, Diyarbakır MP; Ali Babacan on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Bkent Turan, Çanakkale MP; Faik Öztrak, Tekirdağ MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; and our valued MPs will speak. On behalf of his subjects, İbrahim Mustafa Turhan, İzmir MP; on behalf of the government, Mehmet Simsek, Deputy Prime Minister; on behalf of his people, Aykut Erdoğdu, İstanbul MP will speak. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I would like to welcome Mr. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa, to the stand.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0002par0021	Mr. President, I've been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of 2016. I salute the General Assembly and the great Turkish nation. As I begin to speak, I first remember our heavenly ancestors, who entrusted this beautiful land to us, all our martyrs who sacrificed their lives for their country, the founding leader of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and his comrades, the founder of our party, Basbuğ, the founder of our party, Alpaslan Turkesh, with mercy and gratitude. May their souls rest in peace. Dear lawmakers, budget talks are also talks to face the reality of the country. We, the National Movement Party, see an opportunity to mirror and warn the power of budget talks, to tell our nation the truth. And since January 20th, we've had all our conversations in this frame. Dear lawmakers, in what environment do we discuss the budget?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0003par0025	Mr. Akçay, my dear fellow... Dear lawmakers, complains of humming, can't be heard. Please hold your meetings outside and let us hear in silence, sir. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0004par0028	Our country is being pushed into a dangerous process, getting more and more lonely out there. We're surrounded by blockades. In there, the low terror attacks that target our nation and our country continue to rise. Social and political tensions are increasing. Moreover, where these tensions will be lifted, the blind eye is personally provoked by some of its ruling owners, as if it were the finger of the eye. The social, economic, and spiritual depression is increasing every day. The Constitution, the law, the law is broken. Justice is wounded. Our national and spiritual values are being undermined, our unity and integrity are sacrificed to ethnic and religious division. In the president's statement, we discuss the budget in an environment where some parts of our country are being told that they are trying to rebuild their homeland.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0005par0029	Mr. President, there's a buzzing in the living room, there's nothing to be heard. If my friends aren't listening, let them out. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0004par0030	We're talking about the budget in an environment where we're in national danger from the government, where the rulers run away from responsibility for their ambitions.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0005par0031	There's a great hum in the living room, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0006par0032	Mr. Akçay, excuse me... I'd like to remind you again, our esteemed MPs. Let's hear it in silence, please.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0007par0034	Mr. President, in fact, I can play it freely, but I don't want to make things worse.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0006par0035	Yes, sir, of course.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0007par0036	However, if the climate is tense, the ruling MPs need to listen.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0006par0037	Thank you for your kindness.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0008par0038	Let them talk outside, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0006par0039	Dear friends, please hold your meetings outside, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0009par0040	Please don't provoke me.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0006par0041	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0010par0042	We'll do the same in a minute.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0009par0043	Dear lawmakers, we must renew our sense of power of attorney while carrying out our duty from the Turkish nation. Now, in this hum, I remind you once again that the consciousness of this power of attorney must be renewed. Water flows in the bed. This Parliament's bed is the founding philosophy of the Republic of Turkey, the existence and beka principles of the Turkish nation, Turkish nationalism in every way. Under this roof, no one has the authority to bring the country's bottom from the ground up, turn modern civilization's march into a nightmare of joy and danger. If we can't keep our vows, we shouldn't even be walking through this door. In the budget talks, we called the National Movement Party the Turkish nation; we didn't say the other side, we said the public, your neighborhood, our village. Remember, this great House is a roof that protects the quality of the nation, has no other agenda, has not mortgaged its will to anyone, where all citizens are represented as partners and equal. This Parliament is the Veterans Assembly, which carried out the War of Salvation, which has earned our freedom and sovereignty. Under this roof, there's a right to the martyrs, to the unfinished orphans, to the martyrs, to every electron that jumps on that microphone that gives you my voice while you're working with public means. The Turkish nation's unity, support and interests cannot be spoken against, the decision cannot be made. This is a palace garden, not a dome, not a Court-martial, not a royal boat, not an intellectual cafeteria, not a terrorist cell. This is the bench of the Turkish nation. National domination is present on this bench, democracy goes home from here, law, tradition is established here, and the Turkish nation uses its budget rights here. This right was bought in England by bloody revolutions in France and Russia over six centuries. In our case, in three and a half years or so, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, his comrades in arms and the Veteran Assembly carried him out. You can't just ignore all these gains and be ungrateful for 90 years of debris and negotiate a national budget here. This is a national roof, a nationalist roof. If you trample nationalism, you can't become a nationalist if you infect the reputation of the Republic of Turkey with ethnic mud. You can't be national if you give ethnic and separatist rhetoric legitimacy to anyone who wants autonomy. If you don't have nationality, you'll fall for it, you'll be deceived, you'll be deceived. Since you can't be national, you let domestic and non-national focus plot against the Turkish army. Now, why don't you just do the budget for the National Department of Defense where you can't handle hundreds of regular officers? What would happen if, for the first time in history, you could not maintain the historic Leady Mosque in Diyarbakır Sur, but you could discuss the budget when Friday prayer could not be held? Why don't you just make a budget for the Ministry of National Education after Süleyman Nazif Elementary School in Fatihpaşa neighborhood, and the Istiklal Elementary School in Cizre, and 290 schools in genius? What would happen if you discussed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget as the annual cost of refugees passes through the eight ministry budgets, while Solomon could not protect the Shah's Turbage, Respect Station, his land, while he could not own the Turkish islands in the Aegean. Why don't you just make the budget when corruption, bribery, looting, waste goes up in smoke, and you can see the budget, and you can see the snack money, and you can't do it? I'm sorry if you don't have a national and nationalist position to protect people's lives, their possessions, their hard work, their livelihoods, their values, their subterranean wealth, if you don't realize what you're doing, not even a single cent can be entrusted to you. Dear lawmakers, budgets in democracies are made for the nation by the authority vested in the nation. The name of this nation is the Turkish nation, our flag is the Turkish flag, our country is Turkey. If you refuse to inherit the Turkish nation by rejecting your family, you will not be able to seize its finances, its budget, by rejecting the past, present, and tomorrow. You can't make people who don't respect people rich beyond their means with public money. You can't use the national presence that the martyr has built with his blood like a trophy. That's why you can't be domestic and national. To be local and national is to protect the Turkish nation and Turkey in its name, its reputation and its glory. Protect national borders, national security, national capital and national culture from enemies and their influence agents. If you are to bear these qualities, you will respect the Turkish nation, which has given us your seats with blood and sweat, because we do everything under this roof, with the sweat of the Turkish nation, with the legal labor, with the taxes they pay. Dear lawmakers, the government that governs the state has three basic tasks. The first one is safety; unfortunately, there is no more justice; the second one is very damaged; the third one is prosperity; it does not heal, it breaks down. We need to properly identify the problems we've been having. Today, the government is experiencing a management crisis. There's a problem with not being able to govern behind the incidents. The issue of power is not to solve the problem, it's to leave my administration alone. The conflict between running the state and managing the situation is seen everywhere. Turkey is not governed by its institutions and rules. The Constitution, the law, the law are ineffective. Turkey is under a personal and arbitrary administration. There's a discrepancy at the tops of the state. This problem is not caused by the system or the Constitution, but by personal and arbitrary governance, by personal ambition for power. Those who can't manage are trying to escape responsibility by putting the blame on the system instead of looking for it on their own. For years, one party brings stability to power. Those who say, "One man brings stability." For 14 years, those who exercise power alone have no desire to take responsibility; they have authority, but no responsibility. The Justice and Development Party governments have never acted as a single power. In fact, we're dealing with parallel structures, congregations, cults, various interests groups and coalitions of oligarchs. So the authority given by the nation has been shared with these informel groups. Do not cry for parallels or parallels in vain. You created all the parallel structures. They're one line of parallels, and you're the other line. What did they want, and what didn't they want? They tricked us. We were so naive. You said. So I ask you, what did they want, what did you give them? And your parallel structures aren't one, not two; they're almost thirty-two parts at once. Now you're busy assigning trustees to the structure you've been collaborating with for years, number one. Second: A clear statement has been made in the organisation called the TK, which also has a share of the solution process relations. In Habur, in Oslo, in Imral, in Kandil, and in Dolmabahçe, the ACK was easy with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). The terrorist ringleaders were asked, "Do you have a governor, governor, a governor, or a trustee, whom you have complained about in the region?" What parallel structure was it that allowed terrorists to face terrorists like heroes, to send terrorists to their feet, and to send prosecutors, and to release those who said, "We are not sorry." What kind of state-run consciousness is that? The Mahdums are meeting with governors, MPs, directors, giving instructions, meeting with state protocol where they're going. The Joint Officer's Union has a say in public appointment. We're talking ash and five-quarters. It's almost like a metastasized state administration. There's no telling who's running the country. The presidency has established parallel positions and ministries in 1,150 rooms with the advisers' army. They are interfering with the government's affairs by using powers that do not take their origins from the Constitution and from the law. Answer the question: Who rules this state, the councils in the palace or the ministries in the government? Here, the duality is here, the pleasure is here, the personality is here, the dissonance is here, the Constitution is underfoot here. I don't obey the Constitution, let the Constitution obey me. Make up the Constitution for me. It's called the Constitution. So, in fact, the new constitution they're trying to make seems to be made up of 2 articles. I'm always right, I'm always right. Article 2: Article 1 is valid when I am wrong. If you don't run the government by institution and by rules, it's out of state law. A law-deprived government would drive the country out of its grasp. The economy will sort itself out. The losses in foreign policy, again, can be compensated, but it's important that law and justice be done because the state is built on justice. Joseph Has Hacib Kutadgu Bilig said: "The law that refers to justice is the pillar of this sky; if the law is broken, the sky will not stand in its place." The right to budget is also the right to absolute account and control. A budget that lacks control is a grant budget. The government wants the right to spend, but they don't want control, they're avoiding accountability. He wants authorization, he doesn't take responsibility. There is no financial discipline in a budget without complete control; there is arbitrary spending and there is corruption. There are over $33 billion spending in the 2015 budget. What are we talking about here if there are grants being paid? Why do the Constitution and Law 5018 exist? We're budgeting, but no one fits the Budget Act. Forty-three percent grants are coming up on the road expenses. So, 100 liras, 143 liras being spent. The representation and introduction costs are 212 liras, $393 million is spent, so they've paid 100 liras, 184 liras spent. Payments to nonprofits have doubled. In the purchases of goods and services for production, 18 per cent were cut, so that's how you look down on production and employment. When we look at these notes of the budget, the above-payment spending, the picture shows that the government has been eating, drinking, walking, dusting. The presidential grant rose to $397 million, then to 543 million. The prime minister's budget is 929 million, plus $1 billion 530 million additional grants. Can't a government figure out how much funding a prime minister needs in a year? The Ministry of Transport grants are still rising from 13 billion to 26 billion. The national will pays $1, and they spend $2. There's a pen in the budget that's almost a symbol of inequity. I'm talking about a motion in the middle of the night, a covert grant for the presidency. Covered funds, which are $1 billion in 2014, amount to $1 billion, 773 million. In 14 years, it's almost 17 times the amount of covered funding. How many veiled works are there, Lord? Before the November 1st elections, there is also the distribution of money under the name "Presidential payment" to some leaders and persons. Under Article 6 of the budget, the Finance Minister is authorized to make all changes in the Budget Law. Inter-agency transfers, back-up funding transfers, setting principles... making this infinite budget law meaningless. Like the constitution, you would have to bring a two-point budget law: Article 1: The Finance Minister makes the budget. Article 2: Both the Finance Minister and the Government will spend it at their pleasure. This budget is called the budget, dear friends. We're looking at a back-up grant: each budget will always have a back-up allowance for unpredictability and extraordinary spending. In 2014, the Parliament has a reserve grant of $1 billion, $200 million, and there are 21 times more expenses, 25 billion 360 million. It's called intuitiveness and pleasure, and it's called the budgetary budget. In addition, these expenses must be announced by the Finance Ministry in 15 days, after the year has passed. The Treasury doesn't explain it, it just explains where the initial funding is being spent, and none of the others don't. There's also a ruler called the ruler. With this ruler, there's a special account app that's a thousand times worse than the old-time fund app. These funds used to have special laws, special legislation, regulations, Parliament and Court supervision. Now, these private accounts have no control, no rules, and the ministers have been authorized, so they're going to use them head to toe. In the 2016 budget, a special way of accounting reached $1 billion 700 million is out of the way of spending. The Minister of Finance, because of his authority in this 6th article, can raise this $1 billion, 700 million, to 100 billion, to 200 billion, there is no obstacle. The Ministry of Development (E) table provides 100 vehicles. Why does the budget law (T) have a ruler? So they won't be happy if it's on the table. The type of vehicle, the properties, the price, etcetera. Development Minister Turkey is trying to calculate the cost of the Grand National Assembly. You first calculate the cost of your own ministries. Again, the assistance to municipalities during the 66th term of the ruler (E) should be transparently known, and we do not know that. Which makes the budget covered. In 2016, 4 per cent growth is envisioned, while budget revenues are expected to increase by 12 per cent, 11.9. How is this going to happen? So it's a harbinger of risings on the horizon. The macro developments predicted in 2016 do not explain this increase in tax revenues. We can't go into detail because of the lack of time. There's no structural reform on the horizon, so will there be an increase in in indirect taxes, such as VAT, OTV, in order for the government to achieve its budget revenues? Let's remember which raises have come from the early days of 2016: 7 per cent increase in electricity, 5 per cent increase in smoking, 6 per cent increase in motor vehicle taxes, up 25 per cent to 33% to bread, 38 per cent increase in bridges and highways, 33 per cent increase in telephone taxes; mandatory traffic insurance increases to 400 per cent; there is a increase in almost every product in the market; this is an increase indirect tax. Small-income, poor, poor, continues to be crushed by a strange guru, and the power is scooped up by a spoon. Neither the producer nor the consumer are satisfied with the price of meat and milk. The Minister of Agriculture has put the price on it, but no one's listening. Now, how are you going to deal with this investment power, this rise in price levels? We're looking at tax revenues: In 2015, only VAT and EVT are 40 per cent higher than income taxes, and indirect taxes have reached almost 70 per cent. In 2015, when we investigate the causes of increases in tax revenues, we also find revenues that we can call purity. The VAT, which has been paid around 1.9 billion dollars due to its 4.5G tender, says I don't respect the statements of our citizen in inflation and I don't fit. Contrary to last year, there are income increases from regular, current, and partial stock tax debt payments and a partial reduction in tobacco products, alcohol and non-responsibility in tobacco products during New Year's Eve. Citizen bagels, eating bread, drinking water, being born to death, even in the shroud, everything is taxed; while the animal eats straw, the farmer, the industrialist, the tradesman, there are taxes, but no interest. There's tax on the farmer's diesel, there's no OTV on the yacht, there's no OTV on the cot. The interest lobbyists! Dear lawmakers, the budget is the mirror of the economy. Let's see what it looks like in this mirror: Turkey has become a country that consumes without producing and spends without winning. Growth has been based on consumption, debts have increased, savings have dropped, investments have dropped, unemployment has increased, the social balance of the economy has deteriorated, our resources have been sacrificed to Rant and populism. In public, luxury spending, fancy office rooms, office cars, aimless travel, palaces, free trade, and my knowledge of the public finances are unstable by waste. Due to poor management of the economy, the country's resources were used to enrich a narrow environment, not for development. No technology development, no innovation, no financial discipline. I mean, there isn't any. There's only part of it, so don't accuse us of injustice later. They came to power by saying: "Stability, stability." But now he's gone to the ground. Trust in the economy is dwindling, exchange is increasing, individual credit and credit card debt is increasing, protestive bonds and promissory checks are increasing, short-term debt burden is increasing, unemployment is increasing, inflation is increasing. Once again, in such an unhealthy economy, the budget will not be built on solid foundations. One of the most controversial issues is growth. In 2015 -- please, pay attention -- $2,650 has been withdrawn in 2016, $2,177 in 2016, $2,199 in 2017. This reduction in national income is remarkable, especially in 2013, at the end of 2015, when the national income declines by 14%. Our national income from 2013 to 2015 has dropped $100 billion. For 14 years, Turkey has been governed by a policy based on consumption and imports, not production. In this policy, you borrow from outside, you import, you lend credit to individuals, you increase credit card use, and you think things are going well, but things aren't going well. Debts, foreign trade, inflation, unemployment, checks, bonds and economic security alarms ring. Debts take a lot of time, but let's sum it up from 2002 to today, Turkey's total external debt has increased by threefold, from 129.5 billion to 405.9 billion dollars. The central government debt has increased from 242.5 billion to 685 billion. The private sector's external debt has increased more than six floors. The people of the household owe 6.7 billion in 2002, now 372 billion according to our data. The debt of 55 times higher households, dear friends, is what should make people think of the government. The debt is the man's whip. With his encouragement, the government and the prime ministers themselves encouraged our people to borrow money. There are consumer loans, credit card debts, protesting bonds, all of them with huge increases. Unemployment is another indicator of bad progress and one of the most important indicators is 13 percent in 2002, now 10.5% in 2002. When I saw this rate, we made a difference of.360 degrees. I remembered what the Prime Minister said, and you actually made a 360 degree difference in unemployment. In the end, though the government has done its best to hide the number of unemployment, the unemployment figures are far from giving away the actual number of unemployment. The unemployment that threatens public peace continues to burn our system. It's a job for people, you can't get enough of it. Hundreds of thousands of teachers, graduates of economic administrative sciences, food engineers, agricultural engineers, water products engineers, veterinarians, jobless, waiting, looking for a job. Market places are no more shopping malls, they've become tourist destinations, and they can't fill the basket on the citizen's arm, and, as I said, they don't respect the TİK. That's the way it is. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, and the interest payments...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0011par0078	Mr. Akçay, can you wrap this up in a minute, please?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0009par0079	Yeah, okay. Mr. President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I wish the great House's office in the budget talks would bring blessings to our nation. As the National Movement Party, I declare that we will vote on this budget, and as the National Movement Party, we will tear up any concept of confection and project against the Turkish nation in this land, and no one will doubt it. Know, wise Khan, O Turk! Who can destroy your province and ceremony unless the sky falls at the top, unless the ground is pierced? The promise of our history, the principle of our heritage, and Mustafa Kemal Ataturk will be divided forever. The promise of the Republic of Turkey will not only be a noble wish; it is also the expression of thousands of years of history and our unwavering will. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0012par0084	Thank you, Mr. Erkan Akçay. The second talk on behalf of the National Movement Party Group will be held by İstanbul MP Atila Kaya. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0013par0088	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to share the views of the National Party of Action Group on the National Movements Party's draft of the 2016 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2014 Central Management Computation Act. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, even though they've been running our country for nearly 13 years and received 49.5% of the votes in the last election, I can't run the country. We're talking about a budget prepared by a Prime Minister who says, "Let the President come and lead us as president." This will help us understand why Mr. Prime Minister is willing to leave, considering the policies that the Prime Minister owns and maintains and where they bring our country. Dear lawmakers, our country has been ruled by the same political power for more than thirteen years. The facts, which are the product of this process of governance, and they can't change it, even if they get a vote from half the nation, even from other nations. Throughout their rule, the AKP collaborated with what it described as a blood-soaked terrorist organization and today, a community organization that it described as a terrorist organization. He gave them what they wanted, in the words of their most competent mouths. As a result of co-operation with the congregation, the Turkish army was asked to be brought down by false cases, their officers were imprisoned and lost their lives; on the other hand, our police department was first handed over to them, and then destroyed with an excuse to clean up. The central examination questions were ignored and allowed to be served, allowing the congregation to move to state levels, and the cooperation, unfortunately, was concluded, not by the sight of the state being weakened, but by the sight of them harming themselves in the 17-25 December corruption and bribery process. The separatist terrorist organisation, which the AKP government co-operated with, was allowed to build an explosive and weapons pile on the basis of the so-called solution process, and it was expressed by the most competent mouths. The leader of the terrorist organisation, the AKP minister and lawmakers praised him, and a part of the country watched public security be eliminated. As a result, Turkey has been reduced to a country in which Prime Minister Davutoglu has struggled to establish its sovereignty within its borders. Mr. Davutoglu's attempt to turn our country's towns and neighborhoods into Kobani, I salute Kobani, and I kiss my brothers' forehead in Kobani. Beyond that, he was able to stage an inhuman terrorist attack on our military personnel in the capital of our country and in a region called the State Quarter. In this attack, as much as intelligence and security weakness, there's a role to past negligence. Sadly, repentance is not enough to eliminate the consequences of ignorance. Terrorists have been treated as terrorists by peasants and environmentalists who want to take control of nature on a plateau of Artvin, while half the country is walking around with their bomb-loaded vehicles, and Turkey has been transformed into a village where dogs have been released. Years ago, I was responsible for marketing my country. The leader's party did not bring down the word of its leaders, it was remembered for its rulings, AKP governments, corruption, bribery, favours. Mr. Davutoglu, who has looked the nation in the eye and explained that political morality and transparency laws would be passed, as the first acts of his government, the ministers, whose names have been implicated in corruption claims, have been released from the judiciary, and have watched them be laundered, not to mention the interest of money in the confiscated shoeboxes, clothing cases, and bedrooms, and, as if it were not enough, have forced four ministers to resign, thank both their ministers for the name in the focus of corruption. Dear MPs, Mr. Prime Minister Davutoglu, who at times argued about harmony with the predecessor, has shown that there is no law necessary to arrest the only Justice Minister and journalists in the world who admit to playing puzzles with the law, and the only Interior Minister in the world who can say he doesn't already know the Constitution is in harmony with the predecessor of his legal understanding by keeping the cabinet amongst the indispensable. Throughout the AKP's rule, national education has been handed over to five ministers who don't like what the previous one did, education and test systems have been puzzled, and our children, who we sacrificed for their future, have been turned into guinea pigs. All central exams have been questionable, the unsupervised teachers are a big problem, the appointment has become a bigger problem, based solely on the reference of the advocacy union. In international indexes showing the level of education, our students and schools have been reduced to lower ranks year after year, and the only goal that power can achieve in the national education that they have made to be the means of raising religious and vindictive generations has been made to 1 million imam-hatip students who have fallen to 40,000. In the end, Prime Minister Davutoglu took matters into his own hands and left the fate of national education at the mercy of the meetings in which the President's son heads the National Education and School Directors. All the money, buildings and plots have been delivered to Bilal's foundation, but Turkish youth has been handed over to ignorance and drugs. It is clear that Mr. Davutoglu is also in full harmony with his predecessor regarding national educational policies. No one should try to test our strength, our patience. All the red lines of Turkey, drawn by the rhetoric, have been erased as a result of personal ambitions, inadequacies, and shortsightedness. Mr. Davutoglu, who has changed the future of a country to the power of a person, is a red line for the AKP. By saying it is not only where it is, but also why it exists. The last red line left by the Prime Minister is taking him beyond harmony with his predecessor on issues of democracy, the system and the Constitution. The fact that those in power who can give up Turkey's red lines are unable to give up their party's red lines is one other thing, except that they have taken the party's interest in the country, which is that since its establishment, the AKP has become the only living and defending entity in both the leadership of the party and the state administration that has been known to fight for custody since its establishment. Mr. Davutoglu is aware that his political future depends more on his beauty than on the will of the nation. But that is not sufficient for a guardian. The person who doesn't even give him the right to run his own party is trying to show him who's boss every chance he gets. The last time the Prime Minister agreed to this was to declare the residents of Cerattepe, who he had agreed to meet and agreed to, as a baby Traveler. In that case, I must ask his guardian before Mr. Prime Minister: How can the country's administration be handed over to the person you trusted and failed to hand over the party's leadership? Is the government of our country less important than the leadership of your party, and is our country less valuable than your party? Precious lawmakers have noted that comparing Turkey's situation to the 1990s would be underestimating what happened today and that the state was mismanaged in the 1990s, and that it is now more accurate to talk about the collapse of the state. Mr. Ertugrul Günay is the one who served as a two-term minister in the AKP administrations. Without the state of law in Turkey, the economy is difficult to advance. The ones who give the warning are also rich in countries where there is no law, but the country can't get all rich. In order for us to become rich, we need to become a real legal state, neutral and independent of our judiciary. It is also the former Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, who admitted that the area in which Turkey has not advanced in the last twelve and a half years and even lost dignity was a trial. The main problems in Turkey, led by AKP rulings, are Mr. Hussein Çelik. He said that the economic situation, the poor state of the economy, the turning into paranoia in the fight against terrorism and the parallel; the AKP's vice-presidentship, group vice-presidentship, two separate ministries, party and government spokes. We began to lose someone just because he graduated from imam-gap, saying, "It is Mr. Ayşe Böğürürüç, who said that the ruling-burocracy relationship was carried out during the AKP rule, not on the basis of legitimacy, but on the basis of bossing, and was recently a member of the PKK. Dear MPs, it is clear now that the truths waiting to be brought to light in the shade of the synthes are far more than just the sale of a parcel of Ankara. Precious MPs, professor of political science and international relations, and Mr. Davutoglu, who began his political career as an expert on foreign affairs, are in the state of Turkish foreign policy that he himself shaped as Prime Minister: Take us to the Şanghay Five, which has been on the verge of almost a war with Russia, which has been distributed in languages, and Turkey is threatened to face more than economic sanctions, less than war. The Russian soldiers are at the Kamashlı on our border, and not only with Assad (Assad), they are now shoulder to shoulder with the PYD (PYD) and against Turkey. When the Turkish soldier was put in a sack, would you give them a note? What note, music note? Solving the embargo shackles on his foot, Iran has achieved its strongest position in the region and Turkey has accused him of supporting terrorist groups. The United States is actually divided under the Middle East Project...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0014par0103	Well, we're waiting for a budget speech, so there's nothing in the budget, so let's listen to some budgets.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0013par0104	...in the case of a country, Iraq is a base of terrorism against our existence, as well as Turkey is accusing it of violating sovereignty rights.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0015par0105	No budget, no budget.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0013par0106	In an effort to help organize Sunni, led by Saudi Arabia, the Arab Union of Turkey, who is on the tail of the Riyad-based Alliance of Islam against Terror, has been shaken by its calls to withdraw its troops from the capital. Those who roar at Davos are in need of one another. They are at the point where they are unable to know whether to say "Israel" or "Hamas" (a). Barzani began to say it was only a matter of time before the Kurdistan was established. In an effort to advance west of Fırat, the PYD mocks Turkey's red lines while ISIS hits our schools, our cities, and kills our people. All of Turkey has paid the price for its experience to understand that angry children are nihilist demons. The United States, which they prided themselves on being co-chair of the Great Middle East Project, has officially announced that they do not consider the NYD as a terrorist organization and that the working forces will continue. What the President forgets when he tries to figure out whether the United States is an ally of Turkey, or an ally of the PYD, is that it is not the United States who has hosted the PYD leader over and over again in Ankara, who has opened a corridor from our lands on October 29th and kissed all his brothers in Kobani, not Mr. Davutoglu. About 3 million refugees who have turned our country into a huge refugee camp from Syria, which has turned into a hell on our border, a terrorist organization that has turned our cities into live bombs that have been used for them, billions of dollars and young people that they've harvested from our cities. Not to mention our relatives, who died only because they were Turks and were forced to leave their homes. As if they could not find a place in nearly 100,000 mosques in our country, prayer in Damascus, which had remained in them for many years, was only possible if they kept the ranks behind Assad. The only role in Syria is to guard unwanted refugees in Europe for 3 billion euros. If I have to burn a turd in the face of the threat of Russia, which holds the natural gas tap, the government, which plays the role of a poor but proud young man, has given up its pride for 3 billion euros. If you ask the authorities, Turkey, the regional leader and global power they run, but we don't even have ambassadors in Syria, Israel, Egypt, Libya and Yemen. The loneliness we feel is not the accusation of others, but their own confessions, as the Prime Minister tried to distort. We have defended democracy in Egypt, which is offered as an excuse. It was not the democracy they defended in Egypt, but the ideology of ihvan; had it not been for General Bashir, who knocked down the elected power in Sudan, with a military coup, they would not have laid red carpet on their feet here in the world. It is now clear that Mr. Davutoglu's sole insight into Foreign Affairs is to wrap him in imperial dreams and religious ideology and transform him into an instrument of domestic politics. Dear MPs, where we speak of Prime Minister Davutoglu, we must also address the concept of public order. One reason is the Prime Minister's lack of insight and skill in this matter, and the other is his insistence on using the concept incorrectly and deliberately. As if it is not the primary work of governance in a country, the Prime Minister has discovered the concept of public order. For years, when the roads were cut off, while the flags were supposed to be down, while the Ataturk busts and schools were being burned, the terrorist organization was building its own courts, collecting tributes from the people under the rule, and turning cities into arsenals in front of the government, the concept of the public order, which didn't occur to the Prime Minister when negotiations with terrorists didn't hold. However, Mr. Prime Minister, in a way that doesn't suit academic titrine, uses the concept as if it were just a safety zone. Those familiar with the terminology of law know that public order, which is much more general than he thinks, includes security, but is concerned with public interest, public conscience and general morality. So either the money in the shoeboxes, the money cases in the bedrooms, the 700,000-dollar hours in the arms legitimizing the bribes, the fetal corruption of the tenders, the defamation of the arrogant government-rich people, the efforts of the pool media and the efforts of the media to silence the media, the efforts to silence the media, the effort to pursue the national education foundation, the corruption of exams, the militant staff of the government, as well as the Prime Minister of the laborer, the deputy of the newspaper, are at least threatening the public order. Clearly, Mr. Prime Minister uses the concept of public order in terms of public security, so that all of this may not come to mind, and makes a concept about justice a means of enveloping persecution. The Prime Minister would like the public to believe that public order will be restored by taking out ditchs and entering the neighborhoods. Alas! This nation is well aware that public order cannot be maintained unless the AKP is free of its mentality. He knows because they've learned by living to what purpose it is that people who think that moving their city centers will serve the facility, they're used to carrying public order, they're used to carrying it with their shoe boxes, they're carrying it with their money boxes, they're carrying the power to the palace, they're carrying the graves. Dear lawmakers, one of the most prominent political agendas in power is the new constitution. In the process of the constitution, I don't know what the government understands from the new constitution is, it's because it says, "Don't bind yourself with the law, with the legislation." In terms of power, new constitutional studies are seen to be as meaningful as they can and carry stones on the road to the presidential system. Seeing the presidential system as the most important issue of Turkey, the government will obviously continue to discuss this most important issue with a level of seriousness that compares the president to a flowerpot, a parliamentary system to a montphonic cow. This level is the price they pay for not being able to fill the grounds of stability with solid grounds. The search for stability, indeed, is in the parliamentary system, and in particular in single party rulings, more rapidly than in the executive presidency. The AKP has been in power alone for thirteen years. Did Turkey pass the age of thirteen years when such a possibility was possible? Or couldn't do what? What's gotten in the way of them? I'll tell you, it's just judgment, despite all your puzzles. Dear lawmakers, whether it's the presidency or the parliamentary system, the real source of the power of both systems is judicial independence. If you say I don't recognize it, what system should it do to you? Given both theoretical and practical aspects, the principle of judicial independence, the rule of separation of law and forces, which is common in both the presidential system and the parliamentary system. That's what needs to be discussed before the system debates. What causes instability is not the parliamentary system, but the failure of power to abide by the rule of law. In the presidential system, there is a stronger legal system and constitutional control than the president and parliaments. The president of the Supreme Court comes in second place, just after the president, in the US state protocol. Our presidential aspiring is able to accuse the presidents of high court of treason, saying he doesn't respect the Supreme Court's decisions, he won't obey them. And unfortunately, the response this attitude finds in power is halal! The head of the Constitutional Court put him in his place. You'd think in what developed country in the world, a president could talk like that, find such reckless support from lawmakers? This is all evidence of what kind of president Mr. Erdogan wants. One of the most important reasons for this system's compliance with the United States is the uncompromising belief in liberal capitalism and pragmatism by the two parties and all the voters represented by them. However, there is and should not be such a partnership in the philosophical beliefs of the Turkish voter. The main reason for the success of the presidency in the United States is that there is no dissolution or polarisation. Even if the presidential system was adopted in Turkey, the main obstacle to the healthy functioning of this would not be the presence of opposition, but the AKP would have to divide and camp society to consolidate its own constituency. Both the presidential system and the parliamentary system are examples of success and failure in the world. When you look at these, it's not the system that determines success, it's the level of democracy. It is clear that the presidential system will evolve to authoritarianism before the democratic level of system success is reached. That's where Mr. President's search becomes meaningful. This is the truth behind the Turkish-type presidential quests he often voiced. Dear lawmakers, let me tell you what a real Turkish-type president is: the Turkish-type president is above the law. You've broken the law, the law, you've said the final situation, you've said the puzzle, you don't know the law. The Turkish-type president is to hold the Turkish nation one and all unless the sky hits the top, unless the ground is pierced at the bottom; you have divided the nation into pieces and humiliated some. The Turkish-type presidential state is a period of time; you've ignored the state tradition, you've hoped for refuge from foreign breaths. Turkish-type presidential inn is looting, you looted the people. While the Khan was enriching his people, you enriched the ruling party. Dear MPs, when the day comes, I don't know what date you'll be called, but if you'd like to take a place in Turkish history where there's no shame, bring regret. If you want to defend the Turkish-type presidency, you should first try being the Turkish type. (MHP applause) Or all I can tell you is that what is yours is the Turkish type, and what is your president is the Turkish type. Instead of being used for public support, justice, peace and prosperity throughout the AKP's rulings, valued lawmakers have been camouflaged for national will, corruption, injustice and divisiveness, wasted on the axis of tension, polarisation and conflict. Not only are our country's national interests threatened, but domestic peace is also threatened. Turkey, on the one hand, has been transformed into a country that struggles with the testimony of the Prime Minister and strives to establish its sovereignty within its borders, while only its supporters feel free, only the thieves have no concern for the future. Surrounded by a circle of fire, our country, which is more dependent on unity than ever, in the testimony of public investigations, does not salute one another, nor does it want to be a neighbor or a neighbor, but is divided into camps. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, not what I can say, but because I'm at the end of my term, I'd like to sum it up. The Justice and Development Party, which is therefore the representative of an unhistoric political Islamic concept, has debauched religion, politicized law, ideologised politics, fueled democracy. The nation did this because its understanding of religion, religion, and sectarianism were based on a principle such as exclusivity, not on the principle of coverage, but on the concept of religion and sectarianism. Since they had no familiarity with the government in their past, they did so because they were hoping for a government understanding designed as a company under the direction of the liberals who were under their influence. For those of us alone, they did so because of their primitive understanding of justice. They did it not as a uniting of religion, but as a means which separates them from others and makes them superior to them. They did it because their political understanding was determined by the Machiavellist orientations of an intelligence not limited to morality. Honorable MPs are also concerned with what Westerners refer to as the Turkish motto, the state does not collapse with blasphemy, but it is also related to its lack of knowledge, its lack of legal awareness. These friends consider it the measure of legitimacy of their actions to be unsigned in the affairs of the state, while they do not know that what gives the signature legitimacy is due to legality and public interest. Dear lawmakers, the shrine of Süleyman Shah that AKP had kidnapped in the custody of the terrorist organization, the shrine.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0016par0127	Mr. Kaya, can you wrap this up in a minute?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0013par0128	You know that Solomon Shah Temple that the AKP had kidnapped in the custody of that terrorist organization, the PYD? From the days of the founding of the Ottoman Empire, which you did not drop from your shrine languages, the Turkish Tomb is called the Turkish Tomb, and this is the occasion. To the extent we're looking for: those who can't even say the Turkish nation's name can't defend the interests of the Turkish nation, and those who can't even say the name of a nation should not have a say in the fate of that nation, and in that understanding, we will vote against the budget, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0016par0130	Thank you, Mr. Atila Kaya. Sir, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Garo Paylan. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0017par0134	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, there's no Deputy Prime Minister here, no Prime Minister, and no Mr. Mehmet Simsek to answer us on behalf of the government. We're gonna talk here, we're gonna say our reviews, and the government's gonna answer. There's no Prime Minister, there's no Deputy Prime Minister, there's no answer for us.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0018par0136	The Minister of Finance is there, we're listening.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0017par0137	No, Mehmet Simsek should have listened here, at least Mehmet Simsek should have been here.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0019par0138	You're not in charge of checking us out.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0017par0139	Mr. President and valued lawmakers -- you know, we're now at the end of the budget marathon -- twenty-six days -- I'm a member of the Plan and Budget Commission -- I've worked in the Commission on the budget, and we've been negotiating with the General Assembly for thirteen days. Whatever the bureaucracy brought in, it went through the Commission, and the General Assembly doesn't have the authority to change anything anyway, so it's gonna go through that way. Look, budgets are the conscience of a country, and it determines the conscience of that country, of that state, how we raise money from 78 million, how we collect it and how we spend it. Let's look at the income markers of the budget and look at the pencils. In what way do we collect taxes from society and where do we spend them? Look, evil has become ordinary again these days. In many times in our country's history, evil has become ordinary, and we have never been able to achieve a democratic republic, a democratic state that we had dreamed of. Today, our people are dying again, and there are many layers of tension fields. Society has become polarized. We can actually see all the signs of them in both this House and our budget, so they're in the budget pens. The numbers are cold, but depending on where those numbers are being spent, people's safety, human dignity, values can be put at risk in any sense, or destroyed. In our budget, in many ways, we see what's being destroyed, what's being replaced. For example, let's start with income. How do we collect taxes? Let's take a look at your income markers. Mr. Finance Minister is here, thank God. For example, we collect heavily with indirect taxes, the subject we always criticize, Mr. Secretary. However, governments that collect taxes on direct taxes are more just states, which collect taxes on income and income, proportional to income and wealth. Whereas we don't collect taxes based on income. There's 98 billion in income tax pens, and I think you'll get 70 billion from the workers, Mr. Secretary. You're going to get the rest of it from small tradesmen, medium tradesmen, a very small portion of it, at the rate of the capital, which is the rate of those who take easy money, at the rate of those who earn it. He's going to ask his own financial advisor, and he's going to say, "How much should we pay? How much should we pay??" He's going to say, "You write 50 billion, you write 100 billion, you write 10 billion, you write 10 billion." Because where did the Minister of Finance come from, you have 10 billion on your tax plate, you spend 100 billion every month. He doesn't have the authority to ask.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0020par0143	No CPA would agree to that.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0021par0144	Yeah, we're from trade. We don't know that. Where did you learn that?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0017par0145	When we look at the indirect taxes...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0020par0146	You're insulting 100,000 financial advisors.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0017par0147	Mr. President, as soon as Mr. Davutoglu's order is finished, the AKP MPs are always talking about it.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0022par0148	Sir, please continue. Don't interfere! And don't get personal.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0020par0149	You despise financial advisors. There's 100,000 employees, they're workers, don't say the wrong thing!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0022par0150	Sir, please do not interfere with the security system!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0023par0151	When he goes to a gas station, he pays the same tax as the one with a very modest car with a $1 million car. When you buy a refrigerator, the richest and the poorest pay the same tax on the private consumption tax channel. However, we are the last in the European Union, directly in the OECD countries, and third in the OECD countries, directly in taxes. So, unfortunately, we're in the final stages of wealth and income taxes. In 2002, one percent of Turkey's wealth, the richest of 1 percent, was 36 per cent of the total wealth, while today, in 2015, it rose to 54 per cent. How did this happen? It happened with finance policies. Yes, the cake grew, but it received 36 per cent of the cake, while 1 per cent today has 54 per cent. However, our finance policies tax revenue, wealth, and Rant, but today, that injustice would be out of the question. In that sense, we're critical of these finance policies by the end. Look, the consumer trust index and the economy trust index went down to its lowest levels after many years, at its lowest levels since 2011. But what did you say, and what did you promise? We will rule alone, have stability, and the economy will start to grow, and trust will come, whereas the Economy Trust Index is at its bottoms, the consumer Trust Index is at its bottom. Why is this happening? When we looked at it, we couldn't establish our inner peace, not the rule of law, but the law of the strong. Operations are involved in capital groups, which are proportional to the fact that the President is in favor of you and you're out of your sight. In an environment like this, neither internal capital nor foreign capital will invest. Look, there was a data release yesterday, industrial growth index. There's growth in consumer products because there's been an increase in minimum wage, but there's an incredible decline in investment. Because the investor is anxious, the investor isn't investing, and that doesn't create jobs. Look, there's a trend in unemployment numbers, which is 11 percent again after many years, and it's right on top of that. On the other hand, of course, there is a question of whether we are a safe country or not. It's a safe country, I'm afraid. In every sense, our country is seen as a country that has failed to establish inner peace, a country where bombs explode, deaths happen every day, evil becomes ordinary. And in that sense, unfortunately, we couldn't satisfy our shortcomings, institutionalize our democracy. But the most important thing is the rule of law. We, as Parliament, must hold the rule of law until the end, all institutions must claim it. Look, we're talking about the balance and control that's been discussed a lot these days, so the balance and control of the forces is going to be the issue of the Constitution. However, when we looked at the legisl-walking-judgment point, the President, who was supposed to defend the balance between all these forces, said to the trustees very recently: put aside the law. Well, we never would have thought that we wanted to change a coup law, but even to have to defend it, Mr. President would have to leave us, unfortunately, to defend the current bureaucracy, the existing law, and the legislation. I don't know anything about a Supreme Court decision, I ignore it, I don't respect it. Look, Mr. Finance Minister, if you want to collect the taxes you're aiming at, first you have to call it freedom of speech, freedom of press, rule of law, because that's what the wheels of the economy depend on. We're in the middle-income trap and middle-tech trap. I'm afraid our country's going to have a hard time getting past that middle-income trap. Because, in the country without freedoms, we're going to build and sell high-tech products that we've been aiming for... a lot of ministers came in, told us about it in the Commission, but we never got there. Because where there's no free thought, there's no original ideas, no high-tech products. In places that institutionalized his democracy, where law prevails, these products produce them, these minds produce them. We're in the new world where the brain, the brain, the free mind, the creative thought prevails, but we're still in the middle income trap because we're still moving in our old patterns, and we're in the middle-tech trap. Yesterday -- our EU Minister was here, but I think he's gone -- there was talks with the EU, and our EU Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, our Foreign Minister, held negotiations. Here, let's keep the refugees, let's make this a safe zone in Turkey, let's take back the refugee who came to you, and we'll get 3 billion euros in return. It's a reduced bargain, I'm afraid. I'm really embarrassed, in the sense that refugees are our guests, of course, who have a place over our heads, but what we should do is they're a bargaining point, and take the money as the President put it. In return, we're faced with criticism from the EU. In response, we're faced with answers from freedom of the press, freedom of expression, the appointment of trustees to newspapers, human rights, human life safety, all of these frameworks. Mr. President had a statement that we would replace the Copenhagen Criterians with Ankara criteria. The Copenhagen Criterians are no longer spoken, but we did not like the Ankara criteria. We need to get back to that vision, the vision of the Copenhagen Critters. Now that we've used my statements on income, let's take a look at the expense pens. How does our budget spend money? Does it represent conscience at this point? Does it represent justice? Is he in favor of sucking? Social gender equalityist? Equalist about ethnic identities? Does he look at beliefs as equals? Does he have an ecology perspective? Central or decentralized? All of these conflict areas, look, all of these things that I've considered in our society, they're conflict areas. But when we look at all of these things, we still have a budget that can't get out of that narrow pattern, that's trying to walk in a single sense, that polarizes society in this framework, that ignores parts of it when it serves some segments. For example, our budget is a central budget. Every day, look, there are delegations from all over Turkey coming to our Parliament and the ministries, making demands, building schools, building roads. For example, Mr. Salih Cora gave the most striking example of this in the Commission. When our Minister of Agriculture arrived, he said to the Minister of Agriculture: "Yes, thank you, Minister of Agriculture, you're sending us cows, but the cow you sent us is not compatible with the conditions of the Black Sea, it's consistent with the flat land, and this animal cannot walk here, and because of climate conditions, it's ruined." I said to Mr. Salih Cora: "Mr. Salih Cora, we need democratic autonomy in this matter." If we look at the center, it'll take the cow and send the same cow all over Turkey. That cow doesn't fit anywhere else. But if we look at it as a decentralist, they know that everything has value, that everything has climate, that it has reality, and they demand it accordingly, that the locals spend it. But unfortunately, I think Mr. Cora gave me the most effective example. Look, there's another active sample. Our Minister of Environment has arrived, I criticized him as an Istanbul MP. I said you're making all the zoning plans for Istanbul right now. Everyone is angry with Kadir Topbaş. Look, in Istanbul, the coast roads, everywhere, those air ducts were completely cemented with the buildings the Ministry of Environment gave them, and the skyline was destroyed. It's Kadir Topbas we're angry with. Do a survey in Istanbul, and everyone will be angry with Kadir Topbaş. The elected mayor. But we visited Kadir Topbaş. Mr. Kadir Topbaş, please take a step in this matter. We said, "I'm not signing any of them." Mr. Kadir Topbaş was very complaining about it, and he wanted to be in charge of it. So Kadir Topbaş also advocates a decentralisational, democratic, autonomous system. All over Turkey, if we choose, our mayors, our municipal councils must build. Other than that, he shouldn't be giving away any authority. That's what we gave our Minister of the Environment our reviews on. The other point is the Head of Religious Affairs. For example, I'm giving you a couple of examples of the budget. We all pay taxes, I pay taxes, Christians, Muslims, Alevis, people in every sect, people in every religion pay taxes. However, our Ministry of Religious Affairs serves one religion and one religion of its own. We argued, however, that only the state cannot be a religion and that perhaps there should be a coordination board that serves all religions in accordance with equality, and that religion should be liberated. A lot of AKP people were defending them before they were in power, but as we look at them now, they continue to maintain the monotheistic structure of the Ministry of Religious Affairs and the understanding that left religion beneath the hegemony of politics. But, look, the President had a saying that I want a religious society. Well, I'll say this: if you want a religious community, why don't you open the seminary?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0024par0164	Why do you think?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0023par0165	So Christians have no right to be religious? Why? Why, for example, is the Armenian Patriarchy closed at the seminary? Now that Heybeliada School is closed, why?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0024par0166	Why?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0025par0167	Do you think, do you think...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0023par0168	Why is it closed?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0025par0169	Why do you think?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0023par0170	I don't know. Look, you want to draw a frame on their camisoles right now. Let the Alevis draw their own frames in their own originality. You try to describe it as the center of expression. A state doesn't have religion. The government will serve the faith if it desires it. In that frame, we have taxes on the budget spent on the President of the Religious Affairs, and I, frankly, don't give my rights. In that framework, he has to look at all of the beliefs in the context of equality, and if he serves them, he has to serve them equally. Here's another example, the State Department... the Secretary of State has arrived, and this is how we deal with our relatives, and how we serve. Mr. Tuğrul Türkesh has come, here, he has made many statements about our relatives. He said, "This is what we serve our soy people regarding Yalçın Akdoğan TİKA. Look, I'll tell you this: no religion of a state, no descendants of a state. Yeah, people have descendants. I have family.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0026par0175	Are we degenerates?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0023par0176	No, we're all noble.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0026par0177	Well, okay.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0023par0178	We all have family, but the government doesn't have kin. Because this place is so ethnic, multilingual, multi-identified. The government has citizens. Look, let's look at our Syrian policy. Why did we put gasoline in that fire right now because we looked at it in the context of religion and religion and a religion? We supported the Bayır Bucak Turkmen and some jihadist organizations there.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0027par0180	Lies!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0023par0181	But we've seen that it doesn't surprise any of them. The border, look, is multi-identified, multilingual, multicultural, and the other side of the border is multilingual, multicultural.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0028par0182	The crushes are here. No one opened the door, we opened it. You know that, right?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0023par0183	A Turkey that was unable to establish inner peace inside, of course, either outside or Syria, as well as Syria, who had many identities, would not be able to pour gasoline into that fire, of course, with a so-called look at Syria. Let me give you an example of the Home Secretary. Now, we're going to discuss the protection of personal data, friends. And when Mr. Secretary came to the Commission, look, this state gave me a genealogical code. My blood code is 2. I asked you, what's yours? Armenian blood code two. He said: I don't know my generic code. Anyway, he found out... He's given Armenians, Süryans, Greeks, this state generic code, and he's committed a lot of crimes over that generic code. Like property tax, like September 6th or 7th, and he's committed a lot of crimes like not having a government official. We removed them. They said, "Thank you, too, from the Local Register Office." But the other day, there was a news flash. An MIT document fell. Look, it's a secret document of the AKP-era. It's a secret document. What does it say in a classified document: I present to you the additional document as the National Intelligence Agency. And the MIT, which has studied something like this, still, in 2011, and is probably still studying it: What does it say? Other Ethnic Splittive Actions. Other Ethnic Splittive Actions. ▪ 2.1. Armenianism is called Ethnic and divisive activity. We're looking at other articles: Alevi, missionary, soy-based many, you know, Greek activities; you see, the request for the opening of the seminary is divisive activity, and demanding justice for Hrant Dink is divisive, and, worst of all, I'm telling you, it's called Armenianism. Yeah, but where does he get that from? Look, there was a ceremony at Erzurum the other day. At the ceremony...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0029par0186	Mr. Garo, we don't have this document, how do you have it?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0030par0187	Where did you get that document?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0029par0188	Mr. Garo, where did you get the document?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0031par0189	We found the document in the Hrant Dink file.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0030par0190	How did it get in there?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0029par0191	So it's official, so it's clear?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0031par0192	The secret document's all over the place. Look, years later, it's falling apart. There was a ceremony at Erzurum the other day, and here, Armenian gangs slaughter Muslims. They, you know, they drink wine like this, they burn down the mosque, and then people come and kill those Armenian gangsters. Such a story and the mayor's explanation is full of hate crimes. Where does he get this gesture? Look, I asked the Home Secretary what kind of education you're giving him, so that you can go to Silopi, where security forces are p. I asked him if he could write on the walls. In the announcements of the security forces that go there, they can make announcements that you are all Armenians. That's the kind of racist understanding we're dealing with. I understood very well where he received this from, because in his statement recently in Bingol, the Armenian gangs collaborated with the Russians in World War I and could now say that the HDP opened an office in Russia in the same way. I mean, it's pretty obvious where he got that look. Every people's name is the honor of that people. A people are not given an adjective, but adjectives are placed next to them. There may be all kinds of people in every nation, but they are not named after them.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0032par0194	You've been calling the stand a traitor state, a killer state. What adjective does that suit you, Congressman? Aren't you saying that the traitor is the state?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0031par0195	Look, I'll give you another example of the Minister of National Education: We advocate multilingual education based on language. So I studied at a multilingual educational institution based on native language, and then became a manager. As you can see, my Turkish is not bad, I can express myself, but I started with my native language in kindergarten. Then in elementary school, the native language and the national language entered my life in Turkish, and I played with Turkish, and I became a hypocrite. Then he went into English, and I became a lingo. I learned English more easily than others because a child learning to speak languages learns new languages more easily and it's pedagogy. However, the Ministry of National Education budget says: I will spend $110 billion, but I don't have 1 euro for people who want to study in their native language. Is that justice, is that equality, is that it, pedagogy? If we want to serve social peace, we need to get out of these old patterns in every aspect of life, and the Ministry of National Education is in charge because we've lost three generations, let's not lose the fourth generation, friends. As a result, look, we were dressed in a narrow pattern and a straightjacket about a hundred years ago. We couldn't get out of that narrow trunk and the straight shirt, and each time that narrowed it down and the straight shirt showed us an enemy, an internal enemy, an external enemy, and we were asked to believe in that internal enemy and an external enemy. They said they were traitors. They said they were terrorists. They labeled every issue he couldn't solve, just like he does these days. They call everything they don't understand, everything they can't solve, the traitor, just like in other third world countries in this position. Look, Henry Thomas Buckle said that society prepares crime, criminal acts. If there is no justice, there is no peace and tension. I have an example of my grandfather, and I've heard it from my father. One day a thief broke into their house, and my father and uncle caught him and started beating him up, and we caught the thief, Father. My grandfather came to them, and they thought he was going to beat up the thief, and he started beating up my father and uncle. Aren't you ashamed? Look at your own clothes, and look at the clothes of that thief. The boy had no shoes on his feet. He said, "He took the child, clothed the child, fed her, put her to work, and then became his patron, a half father." So in all areas of society, if we're not fair in all areas of life, if we're not equal in all areas, we prepare the crime, and then someone rebeles, and we call the rebel the traitor, we call him the thief, we call him the terrorist. Do we have the right? We committed that crime.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0033par0199	The people who broke into our house have guns, guns, rocket launchers.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0031par0200	Every crime in life is a consequence. Why, it's us, we can't find a solution as Congress. If we had been able to find solutions to all fault lines in these matters, we could be facing Turkey at many points right now, where crime is not committed.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0034par0201	There's justice in this country, equality, but there's no reward for treason!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0031par0202	Look, we don't get different results by doing the same thing, we say that many times. In the 1930s, this state also said cleanness, and in 1938 it said cleanness, and in the 1990s it said cleanness, and in 2016 it said cleanness. But by doing the same things, we've never had different results, and we're never going to get them. Einstein said: "But fools do it, fools do it. We are here to produce solutions, friends, not insult each other." Look, Rakel Dink, at Hrant Dink's funeral, said it was the darkness that created murderers from babies. The 16-year-old Ogun Samast came and killed Hrant Dink as the Turk's enemy because that's what this country's judgment told him, and his media called Hrant Dink a traitor. I mean, unfortunately, we make the crimes, and we create killers out of babies. And security bureaucracy is running the country now, not democracy bureaucracy, not freedom bureaucracy. We don't have a liberal concept of Congress. But look, guys, let's not trust the security bureaucracy. Unfortunately, the war started again, the tension began again. However, the security bureaucracy has repeatedly lied to us in Turkey's history. Look, two cops were killed in your house, right? A report went to the Prime Minister, and he said: "There was a radio message from Kandil. " He still has no exposed point. That night, he lifted up the planes and started bombing the Kandil, and we've been carrying coffins ever since, I'm afraid, my friends. But the state said in September 6, 1955: "Ataturk's house was bombed in Thessaloniki. " The people who bombed it were the MIT. Twenty-five sons admitted it, said it was a wonderful organization. We need to look at everything the state bureaucracy, especially the security bureaucracy, tells us. Just as the Fethullahians surrounded Mr. President four years ago, the Ergenekons again today surrounded him, the security bureaucracy surrounded him, and they say the state is at risk, and we need to fight that risk inside and out. Our coven is offline, and I'm afraid orders come from the palace in that sense. Look, if Sırrı Susayya made a film about Mandela's rebellion, about Arafat's rebellion, about the IRA in England, or about Bosnia, we'd always stand on the victim's side and stand on the side of the wall. Today, however, films are being filmed in Cizre, Cleopatra, Sur. Friends, we're losing our people. Whereas we call the people who burn our people there, the ones who throw cannons, the ones who are treacherous. We have a responsibility to resolve this matter. We're not getting anywhere by investigating each other. Let's not be afraid to criticize each other, but we must find a way out of this vortex, this palace coup, the coup of these security guards as Congress. So, we have to water the fire, get back together, renegotiate, propose solutions, get back to a democratic constitution. Look, the press is offline today, you're not being criticized. Yeah, there are some newspapers, they're just insulting them, I don't count them, but there aren't any columnists left who can criticize. And you keep making mistakes because you can't be criticized. In that respect, fear not being criticized, but not being criticized. We must preserve the reputation of the House. No, the will of the nation is here. I was elected 52 percent, says Mr. President. By God, we have 85 percent of friends in our group, with 90 percent of them. We've all been chosen by the will of the nation, and the will of the nation is here, and this is the place to offer solutions, and I can say this last word... Mr. President, will you give me a minute?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0035par0210	One more minute... Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0031par0212	The medieval philosopher Augustine said: "If you take justice out of the state, the state will become a criminal organization. " Unfortunately, at many points we commit crimes and act unfairly. The solution here is to find solutions to the path of democracy, and to find solutions to this coupking constitution, and to re-dominate politics. The political institution has been compromised at many points. We need to get the political institution involved, look for solution proposals in the House, stop investigating each other. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0036par0215	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0037par0216	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0036par0217	Mr. President, we've been patiently listening to budget talks to continue with great maturity, but unfortunately, Garo Paylan has made a clear challenge to the Civil Charter, which is highly incompatible to the Civil Code, which, in the name of the nation, has tried to give birth to an inappropriate description, such as the coup d'état over the nation's struggle against terrorism attacking the safety of lives and property. I demand word in this frame.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0038par0218	Mr. President, this is not a taunt, it's a political find.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0037par0219	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, earlier Mr. Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın Bey has a request to make a statement... for a minute, where he sits. I'll give it to you after that, sir. Here you are, Mr. Kamil.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0039par0223	Mr. President, thank you very much. Now, sir, the nations must have a process of independence. It's the same with countries, it's the same with different cities in one country. And the greatest proofs of that are monuments, monuments, graves, and experiences. And as Erzurum MP, I'd like to make a point or two. The month of Erzurum is the month of victory, the month of salvation. Our Erzurum has really gone through a very heavy period of Russian occupation, and since we were children, generations before us have also grown up with these stories, and there have been great tragedies in Erzurum. Sadly, along with the Russian occupation, the Hnçak and Taşnak gangs, who took strength and courage from it, also inflicted great persecution and great torture on the inhabitants of Erzurum, the Erzurumites. We even have mass mausoleums, museums, in this context. Thus, the salvation of our Erzurum is symbolic. This means that it's being transferred from generation to generation -- it's a reality -- it's being transmitted. Anything else is out of the question. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0040par0227	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0041par0231	Mr. President, dear friends, I don't care about racing. Mr. Paylan concludes his speech: "Let us understand one another, let us listen to another, let us not insult one another. " But just before that, isn't it insulting to express criticism of a man who was elected President of the nation, as to his politics, as an inappropriate description of the coup de la saray? Isn't that an insult to the will of the nation, Mr. Paylan?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0042par0233	No, it's a political find.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0041par0234	You will contradict your own words, and you will insult them, and you will bind the end of your words, saying, 'Let us not insult one another.' That's not an appropriate way to reason. Mr. President went there with the will of the nation, which you and we all have here, which we owe legitimacy to, at least your reasons require a more respectful language against that office.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0042par0235	Give him a call so he can respect us.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0041par0236	On the other hand, Turkey faced a terrorist attack, which has nothing to do with the palace, the ash, this, this. If there's anything to be said, in the name of peace in this country, in the name of the brotherhood, you'll go back to that terrorist organization first and you'll talk to them first. (AK PARTY) Let's turn around and look at ourselves when crimes are committed inside their presence, even in the general disk. Bread can be stolen, terrorism can be, and let's understand ourselves. You're going to try to place a bond like this, and then you're going to place this business in the back, as if there were political footplay of that terrorist attack, a very wrong, a blind look at reality. On the other hand, let's make criticisms of hate crimes based on identities, let's talk, Turkey's democratic maturity will cover that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Paylan, is it possible for you to speak in Armenia? Go do it in the diaspora, they'll tear you apart.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0043par0240	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0044par0241	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0043par0242	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0044par0243	He made a mockery of it, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0043par0244	Let me see if there's a pick-me-up.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0044par0245	No, sir...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0043par0246	No, sir, I'll take a look.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0044par0247	But please don't...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0043par0248	I'll take a look at the reports, sir. Sit down, and I'll decide accordingly.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0044par0249	Sir, the open taunt...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0043par0250	I'm going to look at the records, see if there's a pick-me-up or not.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0044par0251	You gave it to Mr. Naci, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0043par0252	This is my right, please sit down.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0045par0253	We haven't been able to respond to your 30-minute pick-up talk in two minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0044par0254	Sir, you gave it to Mr. Naci.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0043par0255	Yes, I'm going to look at the report in this joint and make a decision.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0044par0256	You gave it to Mr. Naci without studying.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0043par0257	I will, sir, because there was open teasing.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0044par0258	But what kind of justice would that be? There's an open taunt, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0043par0259	Please, Mr. Paylan...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0044par0260	But you gave it to Mr. Naci directly.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0043par0261	I'm telling you, if the President sees fit to accept the allegations of bullying by the Civil Code, he will not or will not commit to the same union.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0046par0262	Yeah, didn't you listen to that?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0047par0263	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0043par0264	Mr. Idris, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0047par0265	Let me try to express the situation.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0043par0266	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0048par0267	No, what's the need for a report, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0043par0268	I will, sir. I will, sir. That's the way I see it.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0048par0270	What's the need for a statement, didn't you listen?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0043par0271	It's my right to appreciate it, sir. Here you are, Mr. Idris.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0048par0273	If you've lost your hearing, go to the doctor.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0049par0274	It's a shame. It's a shame.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0050par0275	Mr. President, Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0051par0276	I'll turn on your mic, sir. Here you are, Mr. Idris.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0050par0280	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, of course, the last day of the budget, the closing statement. There's been some very stressful sessions here. However, on this last day, a major task falls especially to the Presidential Court. So we think that your person and the Presidential Court should be able to address their views freely on the stand with a fair governance, at least today's political parties. Now, while you were promising Mr. Bostanci to tease him, we decided that this would be a requirement for today's session, and that's probably how we're going to do this, Mr. President, as you've done in previous sessions, not by wanting the minutes, but through the testimony of the character. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The 69th Amendment of the Civil Charter... I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0052par0286	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0050par0287	We decided that you would make a promise by operating the 69th Amendment of the Civil Code. As a matter of fact, Mr. Bostanci has made some heavy abuses from the stand against both our or her or our group. He has publicly insulted the President in the sense that the coup attempt against our minister was to say "Saray." He has made a strong accusation against us from his speech to blind, supporting terror, and not making a sound. Therefore, if your attitude towards Mr. Bostanci is to improve, it is our request that Mr. Bostanci use that right from the stand at the moment according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0052par0289	Who's it for, sir?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0050par0290	Garo Paylan... I mean, there's teasing our group. And on behalf of our group...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0052par0291	Mr. Idris, you know as well as your witness that, on the condition that we're in the same session, the President will conduct an examination and will give or give a statement in accordance with it. I'll take this examination, sir. In other news, before the session is closed, I'm going to present to you my right of appreciation for him. Your request, your advice, or your wish is beautiful, such a challenge should not be born. It's the last day of a budget. Of course, it is our wish that we all complete it in harmony, in an environment where no bullying is challenged. And again, you know, the way you talk is not to be agitating, hurtful, and rude, even to condemn the extension of this. Everyone should pay attention to that. I thank you for your sensitivity. As I said, I'm going to submit this decision in session.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0050par0292	Mr. President, I mean, we respect your decision on this, and of course you have the right to review and appreciate the minutes as the Presidential Court, but I wish you had done the same when you were reviewing Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0052par0293	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0050par0294	We hope that this will be the way you will be in the opposition to the AKP from now on.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0052par0295	Sir, I followed with great precision, and I found the motive appropriate. A few times, I've also found that there's been some bullying, and I made that promise with great ease. I'll examine the second one, sir. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mr. Çağlar Demirelde has the right to speak now, Diyarbakır MP. Yes, ma'am.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0053par0303	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a promise to present the views of the Peoples' Democratic Party on the Central Management Budget Bill of 2016. As I begin to speak, the General Assembly welcomes those who watch us at the beginning of their screens, and especially women who fight for rights and freedom in their homes, workplaces and places of residence, especially on March 8th. This year, despite the bans, we believe that women everywhere in the country are going to the fields for March 8th, which has taught power an important lesson. This March 8th has shown us once again that women will not swear in the face of police, state and male violence, that they will resist the forbidden and oppressive mentality of power to the end. So, once again, we say, "Long live the struggle of women, live the freedom of women." [[x]] Mr. President, this budget law, which we're about to complete today, has been passed in the form of a document that, above all, the commitments of democracy by the AKP government is not a goal, but a tool that is no longer needed. Over the past month, there has been a budget process that has not been considered, even opposition parties have been eliminated, let alone included in the debates of NGOs and trade organisations. So that this antidemocratic attitude was reached until the opposition as the HDP Group was not taken into the Commission's report. In the three-page article sent to our side, we found that our party's views were viewed as scandalous violations of the Civil Code and the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mr. President, this is the decision of the President of the Commission, which constitutes a fundamental violation of the Constitution and the Civil Code. The President of the Commission, who should be neutral, has imposed the monotheist understanding of power and publicly violated our right to opposition. But we'd like to rephrase that we're not going to leave it at that. We'd like to point out that we've also initiated the application process to the Constitutional Court. Dear lawmakers, if we return to the negotiations of the budget in the Commission and the General Assembly, I will steal and play myself in this area, as in every area. Mr. ministers and representatives of the government, you may have said in the past, you may have said "accession," "democracy," but here I only spend on my head, and then I'll cover the minaret with covered funds, raises, tax increases." You've shown your attitude, and you've given us a full war, plunder and exploitation budget for voting today. We're not surprised, though. Because in 1998, what Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor Recep Tayyip Erdogan said at that time, let's remember: the democracy is not a goal for us, it's a tool. We are committed to democracy until we reach our goal. From this budget, obviously, there will be another 20 percent increase in the democratic parts of our country; to whom, we, the Kurds, will be more likely to have covered funds and special accounts that have fallen on us, including bullets, tanks and cannons, because in this budget, there are mortar cannons that have been raised by 45 percent more in the last eight years; to whom, and to whom, we are not sure why, we have to increase our private funds and private accounts; to whom, our resources, our sources, like the ones that have been thrown at us, like Erdogan's banners.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0054par0311	Look at the words, the words, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0053par0312	And why is that? Since there is a vast understanding of governance that supports the blood of Kurds, that thinks it can win the presidency in the war against Kurds, give us 400 deputies before the June 7th elections, and let this work be resolved in peace. The process has been blown to the ground, as well as after the election. The AKP has expressed its primary intention. The first and foremost reason for you to finish the solution process and go into a dirty war is because of the presidential ambition and obsession. It's obvious. The president is so ambitious that if he doesn't get the constitution and the presidency he wants, he implies that these crises and the concept of illegitimate governance will continue forever. In the process of further interference in the international arena, the Constitution has been suspended by violations and the economy has been dragged into crisis, presidential gambling has also entered a new phase. President Erdogan stepped up his attempt to steal a role from the government and the legislature, perhaps in the days when budget talks began, and this time he tried to test our minds with law. Over the past two weeks, the President has been using the Constitutional Court's decision on Can Dündar and Erdem Gül with great cunning to suggest that if the presidential system does not go through, the management crisis will continue, after all, and look, everything is blocked, we need the presidency. As part of his strategy as a part of his strategy, the Constitutional Court is saying that it does not have to observe the decisions today. The person personally responsible for the protection of the constitution and constitutional regime is, of course, a new threshold in Turkey, which means that Erdogan declared this regime illegitimate, and that this statement also means that he has made a coup. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we must now confess that there has been a very good side to two weeks of budget negotiations in the General Assembly. Because there has been a process where the actual blow of the palace also began to emerge from the crisis and dissolution caused by the AKP. The president, let alone the president's chief counsel, has been able to share the Prime Minister, the principle of separation of powers over the Constitutional Court's decisions has been broken, and the unrest within the AKP has also become undisclosed in the face of the fact that it has been exhibited by parodys. Although Mr. Davutoglu denied it at the beginning of the budget talks, it is also a sign of the condition that he feels compelled to enlighten the public by saying that I am the head of the state in the coming days, and that I am the head of the government. We all know that. While the Prime Minister reminds all of us of the principle of dissolution of forces that have not been ruled over, the efforts of the AKP's founding staff to form an alliance against the palace coup have been revealed. We understand all this, actually.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0055par0316	Is it the AK PARTY that's finished with terrorism, or is it the apocalypse?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0053par0317	The longer you stay in power, the more you drink of the poison of power, the more you're afraid of falling. You've signed so many powers over these 13-14 years in power, you've had so many actions that you've broken the law that we're not surprised at how advanced your defensive reflexes are right now. We know you're afraid to be judged, because you know that if we list your corruption, your lies, your war crimes, your cooperation with ISIS, all your unlawfulities in advance, it's bound to lead all the way to Baghdad. So we say, "Come on, let's go! Here you go! If immunity is to be lifted, let's vote to remove the immunity of 550 MPs here and vote yes. We've given our people all kinds of accounts, but we're not sure if you'll be able to account for the fact that the Cabinet desks here haven't been able to fit their lies for two weeks, and they're struggling to do so. Here, during the General Assembly talks, let's see that Interior Minister Efkan Ala has officially begun to tell the story about Dolmabahçe's agreement. Again, let us remember that Health Minister Muezzinoglu has confessed by mistake that he treated the ISIS people at the Turkish border and then released them.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0056par0321	He didn't mean anything by it.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0053par0322	And let's put it on top of the scandal statements, where Minister of Economy Mr. Elitas had officially accepted the trade relationship between AKP-İSİD. And all of this has been carved into the memory of us and the democratic public who served under the House, never to be erased again. Let's see how that goes. We have repeatedly stated that this House, which we claim to represent 80 million citizens, must establish a swift and decisive will for peace. In this regard, we would love to travel a length of barley with the opposition. Dear MPs, look, we've always said, let's make a peace budget because the cost of peace is zero. But since August, when the AKP lost its legitimacy, its rule of law in Cizre, in Silopi, in Silvan, in Sur, in Idil, in Dargekit, in Derik, in Turkey, in Hakkari, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey. I'd like to begin by saying that a legitimate government, a legitimate regime, would never risk such great violence against the legitimate demands of its own citizens, and I would like to share with you my impressions of Cizre and Tyre. I mean, I want to tell you how and for what purpose this war budget, created by feeding on the blood of the people, has been spent. Before we remember a famous saying said during the First World War: the truth is so precious in wartime that it is protected by a wall of lies. The truth in Cizre was completely exposed to us. Last week in Cizre, the truth had been blockaded for eighty days. Government officials and you representatives of the government have told us for 80 days that the state has not been outside the law; you have told us here and everywhere that all the causes of what happened were ditchs and barricades, that the wounded, the dead are not civilians. You have sworn to bring peace and security that you understand, that the bodies of the dead children in the refrigerators, 35-day-old babies, the screams from the basement of the savagery, you have ignored. You shouted in sentences to the state of Israel that a city could not be destroyed with a tank and a cannon, but you said, "This is our right." In Palestine, you didn't try to understand the Kurdish women, their young, their children, their children, their children, their Kurdish women, who showed solidarity against the violence of the State of Israel, and the violence of the state in Sur. But what did the Palestinian woman, the famous revolutionary Leyla Halid, say, if the law is persecution, then resistance is a means of life. Please listen well, and I will repeat: If the law is persecution, then resistance is a means of action. Here, your law, like the state of Israel, has been persecuted, and your law has been forced to resist the Kurds and the people in Cizre when the law is persecuted. This is what you do not see. That's why there's a huge resistance going on tomorrow's 100th day in Diyarbakır Sur. In Sur, the people of Sur stopped, not just for men, but for those who tried to destroy a heritage of historical, cultural values and civilisations, in ways unlike ISIS. Behold, you have not seen the Kurds who have resisted and were forced to resist, who do not want to leave their homes, their dwellings, and their dwellings, and their dwellings, and their homes; but you have seen them, and you have done injustice to each man, and you have replaced them.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0057par0327	That's why you don't speak up when you're bombing the terrorist community mosques with the Koran, right?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0053par0328	Dear lawmakers, when the blockades were removed along with the wall of lies, which had been imposed on the destruction policy for 80 days, many truths were revealed: bullets and mortars rained on it as enemy lands; a city that had been destroyed by mortars; health stoves, schools, mosques, houses, buildings; traces of atrocities that had not been removed from the basements, even though a very intense evidence had been tried; streets that had been burned, the streets that smelled burnt with human bones; the streets that had been consumed by war crimes, the urges of tortures; the JITEMEMPs, the houses, which had been invaded by their homes. All this has spread out before us in Cizre. For ten days we listened and saw them from all the people. It's not like anything we've experienced before. The people of Cizre said. In the 1990s, when we were in the villages, the police would come and knock on our door, or break it down, but life would return to normal after we had checked our house, whereas today, by the police, another world of this community was created, and even though all scans were normal, they could not normalize their relationship with us, and everyone looked at us as enemies. Lawmakers, lawyers say that law, justice and legislation do not work in Cizre. They said the prosecutor was in charge of an extraordinary administration and a special team for 80 days with no function at all. Let's see what this special team of officials did in Cizre: they left bodies rotting in the streets, tortured funerals, and exposed naked bodies. He burned the bodies alive in a basement and allowed them to burn them. After that, human limbs were mixed in piles of rubble from the buildings burned with cannons, mortars, ladlings, as we all know. The body of a human being was found in a trunk, scorched in the fire. The families were moved to the morgue for unrecognizable funerals, almost trying to be acceptable to death. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, ask yourself, is there such a thing in recent history? There's a situation that hasn't been seen in even the most violent wars in Cizre and Tyre. It didn't happen in Palestine, it didn't happen in Bosnia. As many peace operations have been carried out in Cirre as you wish, they have gone out to plant love for Silopi. Tell the Kurdish people that it is no different from a genocide attempt. The latest state of Cizre suggests that the Nazis burned the entire city as they left Warsaw. All of this, unfortunately, can only be compared to an example of violence in Nazi Germany. However, in 2011, the president himself apologized on behalf of the state as a result of the 1938 Dersim massacre. And let us remember what Yasar Kemal said: every war, no matter what its name is, is a destruction, a death; it corrupts our humanity, it corrupts our conscience. It's up to you to put your hand on your conscience as those who listen to this violence, close their eyes. We're just going to ask you questions that need to be answered in the state of law, so that this violence doesn't repeat itself in this land all the time. We've done a peace operation in Cizre. We're proud of your sensitivity in operations. We ask those who say: Why did you hide the ammunition that caused the basement to collapse in Cizre and where did you hide it? Explain to us what comes out of the tanks, the houses you hit with the balls, the buildings. Tell me, Al, what should parents do when they've been handed 5 kilos of bones and these are your wives? Tell me what should be done with families whose bodies are all mixed together, whose daughters are given two pieces of bone back from their 5'7's. Tell them what many of the unknown men did in the houses where they entered. Did your special teams with extraordinary powers leave me this letter to read in the kitchen of a house? In a letter in the refrigerator of a terrible kitchen, it said: "We are the Mujahideen of the Asakir-i Mansure-i Muhammadiye army of the Republic of Turkey. Our guide in the struggle for God in the way of the state and the nation is always the Qur'an of God. We're putting a modest price on the house we use for duty. Our wish is to defend the land against blasphemy. Thanks to the country. He was named Sungur Tekin and was named after him in the second century. This man, who thought that Mahmoud's army was a Nazir, had put $5 next to the note. To tell you how much the people of Cizre are worth to you, I would like to ask Mr. Davutoglu in particular: Did this zat, which declares his name as Sungur Tekin, offer this service in Cizre for the salary paid with our taxes? Will this increase in your war budget for those who call themselves mujahit? Mr. Prime Minister, you told us that no police officer, no soldiers assigned to Cizre, have committed unlawful acts. We'd like to ask you if they've received permission from you since they didn't get the consent of their hosts while occupying the homes of dozens of citizens in Cizre. Why did they use the rooms of the houses they occupied in Cizre to make them a waste?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0058par0337	The invaders are members of the terrorist organization, the distortion!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0053par0338	So, Mr. Prime Minister, why did they save their urine in pet bottles in running bathrooms? We thought it might be torture, don't you think? Why were they looting and looting homes where cannons and mortars were not touched? Why did they shoot at the air conditioners, smash the TVs with axes, pierce beds, blankets, pillows with bayonets? Why did they leave their feces in their bedrooms, in their living room before they left home? This is every house in Cizre where your soldiers, your police, your mujahideen have entered. We want to ask you if all of this comes from your love for the People of Cizre. And, Mr. Prime Minister, there's also the female dimension of this invasion, which, of course, you've always avoided facing. Have you dismissed the governor of Şırnak who declared that the photos of women exposed to the body were not taken in Cizre, or is he still on duty? We know you didn't. And did you also allow your mujahideen, who wrote dozens of sexist spellings on the walls, who exposed women's underwear before they left the houses they occupied in Cizre? If you don't allow it, we've come to the houses. Will you answer to those who wrote, "We came, you were gone?" I'll give you the answer again if you want: you didn't ask, you won't ask, because you're only capable of acting on orders from the palace, and unfortunately, you've shown us how the tyranny and colonial man's mind can target the woman and the woman's body in a brutal manner.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0058par0340	Explain where you get your orders. Who handed you that text?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0059par0341	You're the president of the group. Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0058par0342	Yeah, yeah. He'll take orders from the palace. He'll say, "I'll keep quiet," right?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0059par0343	Get out of there, answer me.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0058par0344	I will.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0060par0345	By means of the woman's body, you have added new ones every day to the methods of humiliating society, digesting society, holding back from the struggle for freedom. A fascist general from Latin America gave this order, yes: Shoot the women first, because the women who have suffered the most severe consequences of the war have always been at the top of the fight against him, realizing that they must fight for peace. For this reason, along with destruction and suffering, we have always witnessed women's resistance and struggle everywhere, just as in Kobani, Tyre, Cizre, and the likes of them are not often seen in this state of violence and oppression, and women are not silent here, they resist. Yes, and not only in Cizre, or in Kurdistan, but in Cerattepe, Istanbul, and in front of Zaman. It's not just the segments you declare marginal, but we want to remind you that the women with the headscarves, whose image is seen as positive, are also resisting. He resists because in this geography today, women know that if they don't rise up against you, against violence and oppression, there will always be more. Again, women and all those who resist come to know that peace and freedom do not come with a request, with gratitude; they come with determination, and do not back down. So even though there were forbidden areas, one of the governments who were eager to silence women had gone and a new one had arrived, none of them were able to do so. We will not shut up or shut up in the face of this government, which has made it normal in the face of the massacres of women, which, under the protection of the family, legitimizes domestic male violence, and tries to make it a rule for women with no security and no flexibility by the bag of laws. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers have repeatedly stated that the AKP government budget for 2016 is not only a peace and women enemy, but also a budget against labour and democracy, but also a budget that deepens inequality and discrimination. We know very well that the AKP government is using this budget as a means of substantive work and life insurance to make more of a liability over our lives. In a matter of hours, this budget bill, which is a total war and looting budget, will be voted on by lawmakers raising their hand and turning it into a law. But even if it is approved by power, let it be known that we never approve of this budget of war, plunder and coup. As the People's Democratic Party, we will not give up our demands for peace nor our democratic rights nor will we stop defending our rights to fair, peaceful and gender-sensitive budgets. That's exactly why we're saying once again that the government should abandon its war and security policies as soon as possible, but that the people's demands should be re-created and a democratic solution to the Kurdish problem. Yes, we've repeatedly stated that the resuming of the solution process, the resuscitation, the Parliament must take part in the matter. Again, we repeat once again that it is necessary to remove the lockdown on Mr. Abdullah Ocalan and return to the negotiating table. Yes, along with what we said about what happened in Sur, Cizre, and many other cities, yesterday, we came across a painting that was seen in Nazi camps, prisons, tortures. We saw that those who came out of Tyre were robbed naked, just as they were in Nazi camps, and that the wounded were taken to the hospital only 24 hours later. Mr. President, during that time, as soon as I was in Sur, as the families met with the wounded, I was going to express it as soon as I called the governor myself, but unfortunately, the governor didn't answer our call, and it came out once again, except for the governor's statement that people had been exposed to the public in a very naked manner.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0061par0352	Maybe that's how they wanted to look at it so they wouldn't put a bomb in it. They could be live bombs, they could be strapped to their backs.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0060par0353	We're saying all of this, and we've got a lot more to say. We visited them all one by one, visited the families in Cizre, saw how the Miray baby was murdered and said so. Again, we saw and lived where women were exposed to their naked bodies, and how they were made. We saw what happened, what burned the wreckers, and once again history has shown us. History will never forgive them, and since the General Assembly does not take responsibility for it, neither will the General Assembly, nor will it ever forgive the power that does not allow it, and it will pass through history once again as a black spot; things will pass in Tyre, Iraq, Derik. It's the same understanding that brutally plunders Derik City Hall. Again, what happens is that when we express it as a whole, it's a process where the coup d'état, the understanding of the coup d'état. Once again, I say that everyone must go to Cizre and see what happened there and express them in the General Assembly. The solution is very clear: I say that in the Middle East, in Rojava, and in our country, to be together with the Kurds, and to see the demands of all the peoples who have developed a fight together, and to return to the table of solutions, this process can only be eliminated, and I salute the General Assembly and all the people who are watching us on the screens in the hope of a future of conflict, peace in our country.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0062par0356	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0063par0357	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0062par0358	Just a minute, Mr. Naci... Sir, I've got the transcripts. When I examine it, I see that Mr. Bostanci has no statement to challenge a direct taunt...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0064par0360	There's a false statement, Mayor, a false statement.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0062par0361	...but at the closing, when the microphone is turned off by the automatic device, there's a statement: Mr. Paylan, is it possible to make your speech in Armenia? Go do it in the diaspora, they'll tear you apart. I promise you two minutes, no more bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0065par0364	This is the land of freedom.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0066par0367	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bostanci, I regret it. Go, have this conversation in Armenia, do it in diaspora, they'll tear you apart. I'm a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, just like you.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0067par0369	He says either love it or leave it.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0066par0370	We're on equal ground. Just because you're Turkish doesn't give me the upper hand, doesn't mean I'm Armenian, doesn't mean I'm different from you.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0068par0371	It's a word for you to compare freedoms.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0066par0372	I'm here as a deputy of the Republic of Turkey. I'm doing government criticism. If I were in Armenia, you should know that I would be opposed there, too, because the state of Armenia is not a democratic state like the state of Turkey. The opponents there are also opposed to the power there, against the powerful, trying to make it a democracy, just like I'm trying to make it a democracy.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0068par0373	It's not democratic, you're talking like that!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0066par0374	This is what we should do with our hands. I'm making a call. Look, if we rule democratic politics, terror will be over -- what we say about terrorism -- and the problem will be over. If we raise the freedom bar, reverse the security look, discuss our problems here, we can overcome all our issues. We're negotiating the budget. I answer to the Prime Minister. But look, there's the president's custody. Can we answer to the president? Because according to the Constitution, he should be irresponsible and impartial. But there's a custody. We are here to defend the rights of Davutoglu.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0068par0376	Get over it, get over it.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0066par0377	Mr. Davutoglu is making a statement about Cerattepe, and he's going to go out there and talk it out, except for the Gezi, but Mr. President can call it the Travelers of Yavru.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0069par0378	Is it up to you to defend the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0066par0379	From that point of view, we want the person to answer to. And, Mr. President, if he misses politics, he should get out of his constitutional armor and go back to politics...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0070par0380	You won't be able to boil this pot.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0071par0381	Our President is within constitutional limits.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0066par0382	...and he has to do politics where he can come and answer, and he has to stop investigating us.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0070par0383	You won't be able to boil the calamitous pot, we won't let that happen.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0072par0384	He came by choice, by choice.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0066par0385	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0073par0387	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0074par0388	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0073par0389	Mr. Paylan, by deflecting my speech from the context, it's as if you're speaking to him in Armenia.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0075par0390	The Speaker said that Naci Hodja, the Speaker said that.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0076par0391	It's in the reports, the Speaker told me.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0077par0392	Look at the transcripts, the transcripts. You don't own the country.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0078par0393	What I'm saying is that Turkey is democratic development, it's maturity, and it deserves a more peaceful and respectful language against the development of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0076par0394	Go to the diaspora... you say, in Ermenistan... you say, "Go to the diaspora." What more do you have to say?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0079par0395	We patiently listen to a lie from beginning to end, patiently!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0078par0396	On the other hand, a moment ago, Miss Age...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0080par0397	You can talk to the microphone if you want, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0078par0401	Mr. President, in my response to Mr. Paylan, go and speak to him in Armenia. Mr. Paylan understands exactly what I mean.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0081par0402	No, that's what you said, go.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0082par0403	Look into the report.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0081par0404	It's in the report, so fix it.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0083par0405	What I'm saying is the democratic development of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0082par0406	You don't own this country!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0084par0407	Don't read intents and listen to explanations.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0085par0408	It's in the report.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0086par0409	Of course, in Armenia, there can be no follow-up talk, of course not in diaspora. I mean, not only in Turkey, but all over the world, to emphasize the necessity of a joint study on these identities, of hate crimes, and to refer to Turkey's democratic development, and to that end, to express that this country deserves a positive and peaceful language; that's what I'm saying. Second: In her thirty-minute speech here, the Aged Lady has made an acceptable criticism of the budget, a complete insult and taunting beyond her tongue. There's no way I can go out and answer that in two minutes. What he said, I don't repeat; he made a lot of analogies from like Nazis to calling it a war and looting budget. It's a highly propaganda-speaking, dirty concepts, and besides an objective criticism, it's an insult. The only answer I have to this conversation is to condemn it.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0087par0411	Didn't you see the photos?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0086par0412	I condemn the speech of the lady of the ages from beginning to end. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit01spe0088par0415	Sir, thank you. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0088par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the final talks on the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Act. The commission is in place. The government is in place. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Bulent Turan is a member of Çanakkale. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0012	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the Central Management Budget Law bill of 2016. I pray to God that our budget law is good for our country, for our nation, for our democracy. I salute you all. I thank each of our Finance Ministry bureaucrats who have spent days working on the budget bill, working overtime in the Plan and Budget, our Finance Minister, our President of the Plan and Budget Commission, all of our deputies who have been on this stand for 13 days to contribute from each party, with great courtesy, speaking about the budget. You know, the budget, the government's own resources and resources, are the implementation of financial documents, in terms of rational size, in terms of size. The budget is a management success, a budget is a repetitive vote of confidence for a government. We can only do a job on behalf of the community based on the possibility of getting it into the budget. Saint lawmakers, the budget is more than a technical definition for us, it's a trust. We view the budget not only as the essence of our democracy, but as a trust of this nation. We have to split hairs while we're doing our budgets. It's such a responsibility to make a budget that 78 million children should all have their rights, their rights, their views, in this text. This budget is our nation's trust. May God give us the credit for our deeds. Mr. President, I said it's an honor to make a budget. Again, for every government, budget is the most important law, one of the most honorable jobs. However, it is another honor to be budgeting for 14 years. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to repeat that our greatest prayer, our wish, may God grant us the right to do what we do. The budget is the trust of this nation, and we will work day and night to pay for it. It's an honor to make a budget. However, it is an entirely different honor to make a budget for 14 years. There is no other government, another government that has budgeted for 14 years, which has changed from 1950 to today. I'm saying to whomever has worked on these budgets from the day our AK PARTI was founded, whoever has supported this party, this staff, in the march, from their village, from their neighborhood, from their district, from their districts, from their ministers to their prime minister, God bless them a thousand times, and I know a debt of thanks to them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When we left 14 years ago, they said, "There's a tall man; there's a tall man; there's no tomorrow." They said, "There's a beautiful man, there's no tomorrow." But they said, "Hallelujah, fourteen years have come and passed, but as far as the first day, whatever our reputation is in Pınarhisar Prison, our claim, whatever our pride is today, we begin again with the same pride, the same pride, the same pride, and the same pride." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] From that day on, we've had five general elections, three local elections, two public vote, one presidential election; 11 elections total. In all 11 elections, when we went to our nation, we had the opportunity to come here with a tremendous amount of gratitude. We're people who know how much responsibility that is. So, dear friends, in spite of all the choices, why have these people voted for us, for so long? No one has to vote for our eyebrow, our eye, no one has to vote for the AK PARTY in a multi-alternate democracy. A lot of things can be said, but I see intimacy as the basis of a breach. We were sincere, and our people saw it; we were diligent, and our people saw it; and we made a promise, and we made a covenant, and we made a covenant, and we made a covenant, and we did not promise that we would never do it. We worked day and night to do what we said and made no promises we wouldn't keep. Dear friends, the day came when they put our leader in prison, and we said, "O patience." The day came when they tried to shut down our party, and we said, "Be patient." The day came, and they published patience. The day came, and we said, "You can't choose with the 367 freaks." They said, "You have patience. But we didn't hesitate to go to our nation with discretion, saying, 'The end of patience is good.'" [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, dear friends, I'm not reciting anything. I have a survey of the University of Atlam, a study of which, after 1980, government made what commitments, and how many of them have been made? It's being asked, it's being done, and in this academic study everyone sees that the EC PARTI governments have either done or done all of them. So, I'm just saying, word is honor, so I just want to say that we never promised what we could never do. Look, dear friends, I said intimacy, I said work; last week we went to Iran with our Prime Minister, and I was on that committee. It's such an effort that they went to Silopi, and then they went to Iran; and they went out, and they came out to Istanbul, and you know that even though many of them tried to stop it, the bridge that we proudly followed was set up. After him came to Brussels, and after him to Izmir, and after him, there were no empty memories. Our Prime Minister's zeal, the zeal of our deputies, is in the highest opinion. There is no way for those who have not left Ankara to understand this, who have not produced anything but pollen. So I said, it's an honor to budget, but it's an honor to do 14 years, dear friends. Our president had a trip to Africa last week, and as you all know, he was able to go to very different countries, from Ivory Coast to Ghana, Nigeria to Guinea. God loves employees, people vote for employees. I've been tracking budget talks for 13 days, and I'm here as long as I can. We've just seen, I've been making a few exceptions to the hours for the budget, there's no expression, otherwise it's all the same words, otherwise it's all the same reviews. Dear friends, we'd like to talk about the budget, we'd like to see the difference in the budget, the budget is everything in this nation, we'd like to discuss it together. Look, I'm proud to say that our budget, which was 120 billion in 2002, went up to 570 billion today, friends, and none of you said that. You've made all kinds of insults, you've used harsh expressions, because of the wisdom of the budget, because of the intensity of the agenda, and we didn't even want to answer them, but I wish there was an opposition deputy who grew up five times in ten years, and Turkey grew up to say, well, well, let him say what we lack, say what we need, and say what we're wrong, but there's no good side, no part of us to thank? God is All-knowing and All-wise. He sees all that is good, and sees all that is evil, and sees all that is evil, and sees all that is not working. Dear friends, I won't go into details, but after me, our esteemed Minister Ali Babacan Bey will give us technical information, and I'm trying to look at a more general photograph. I'd like to give you another number. Our budget revenues, which were 79 billion in 2002, increased to 541 billion in this budget, which is exactly seven times that. We don't say "small differences" anymore. Our race is with the EC PARTY itself, we are competing with us, our budget is competing with our budgets. That's never been an example. Dear friends, what is fundamentally in the budget? I would like to use a few very brief expressions. Here's one: our most important pencil, our most important argument for education. I'm talking about the budget, which has been increased 10 times as much as today, as the EC PARTY came to power in 2002. In 14 years, our education has come to life with a budget of up to 10 times higher. One of the most important reasons for our human-centered view has been education. We've appointed 500,000 of our current teachers, 500,000, more than half. You've always come up here and said, "Those who don't belong." First crown, let's appoint them, but let's see: 900,000 teachers assigned in 80 years on one side, 500,000 teachers appointed in the last ten years on the other. To say good works is also a blend of strength. They call it our place. So if you say it's good, you don't shrink, you grow, and our people are more pleased about it. My dear friends, we're taking care of your health. When we looked together with health and education, we saw that this share of the budget was 36 percent, 36 percent. See, in Britain, that rate increased to 29% in Germany, 26 per cent in Germany, 24 per cent in France, and 24 per cent in Turkey. I can talk about health for hours, one of the areas we're proud of. Other than that, different pharmacy practices in health, different hospital practices are all behind us. I didn't want to pass without a little reminder. Transport, our own honor, our pride. A tunnel mile in 80 years was 50 years old, and in just 13 years, 250km of tunnels were built. In every area, in airports, on the fast train, in every pen, we've had a lot of access, because it's the know-it-all, the sword-wearer. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm going to give an example of an institution, our Turkish Airlines -- no one could have imagined -- has declared over $1 billion in the last year. Turkey has now become one of the world's most important transportation bases, the center of 24 million transit passengers. They didn't even dream of it until now, but praise be to God, they continued to do their ambitious work in the air, on land, on sea, in every area. Which one should I tell you, about the work of our Department of Sports, our Ministry of Forestry, which one? It's all there, it's all there. Our dear friends, our young people are an important item in the budget. We're young, thinking people. AK PARTY is best suited for young people's support. We thought it best for young people to walk with the AK PARTY, and we produced a special value for our young people in each pen. From our new job-building young people to our scholarships, from our graduate doctorates to their language fields, we've evaluated our young people in every field. My dear friends, when the economy was in crisis all over the world, when there were wars all around us, when the European economy stumbled, we continued to grow. In 2002, the total $86 of the state's 100 lira tax collected in Turkey would go to interest; I note that in 2002, $86 of the $100 tax was interest. In this budget, the budget that you don't like only goes to 13 percent interest, so the employee's right to the employee's interest has been put into a huge amount of overtime so that the employee's rights don't go to the lender. My dear friends, when we look at the international criteria, from time to time the Garibans have been forgotten. It has been said, "The poor have become poorer." It has been said, "We will never accept." We're people who know we're walking in weird gurus. We're people who know what's wrong with these people. So I'd be proud to say that the year 2002, the number of people living under $1 million in Turkey, there are no people living under $1 today, there are no people working under $2 again, there are no people working at $3, there are no people in Turkey, starting now after 4.5. We're one of the best countries in the world. A lot of people in the world live under a dollar a day, starting at $4.5 a day. So I'll say it again: let's do it better; let's give it to the poorer, yes, but if you say it's a budget where the stranger is neglected, it's unfair, it's bad, it's wrong. Other than that, my dear friends, one of the areas we're particularly proud of is our investment in national defense. I won't go into details. 60 percent of our national defense has become domestic, 60 percent. This one didn't have a dream before. The ATAK helicopter, the ANKA drone, the ALTAY tank, the LAND satellite, which should I tell you? It's all part of our pride. The water opportunities we've made for Cyprus, I won't go into detail again, but it's a study that the world has been envious of, and it's been studied. Turkey's water will not flow into the sea, it will be poured into Cyprus to grow our Cyprus. Ovit Tunnel, Sultan II. It was Abdulhamit's dream that the Black Sea would be opened to Anatolia. TIKA, Yunus Emre, which one shall I tell you? Look, I can't tell you how many hours we've done it, dear friends. So, I'll tell you this: what happened to this country that was struggling with inflation, with interest, with this society that began to implement model projects for the world? Look, I'm telling you again, I'm not talking about small structures, I'm talking about big reforms, I'm talking about big projects: what happened, how did one of the number of countries in the world stay on solid ground? A lot can be said. You know, there's something called learned desperation in psychology. There's an elephant example of this learned desperation. You tie a little elephant to a tree with a little chain, and as soon as that elephant pulls his foot out, he pulls out, he pulls two, he pulls three, he's a giant elephant, but he can't even think about trying to get out of there. Why? He's already accepted desperation. Another example: you put a grasshopper in a jar, you shut your mouth, you jump, you jump, you jump, you jump, you can't get out, you don't even think about jumping out of there. So, the AK PARTY has destroyed this learned desperation in Turkey, and has again lifted the values of this nation's history from its civilization, dear friends. Our business man, our politician, our student Edirne, isn't looking at it in the Kars vision, he's looking at it from a much bigger world. I'll tell you again, last week we were with our Prime Minister in Iran, we were with the businessmen, we were having tea, someone took a promise and said: I didn't go anywhere but Istanbul, Ankara, for 30 years. But now I have a business in Algeria, Morocco, Iran, I have contracts. Dear friends, in Turkey the businessman has changed, the student has changed; the politician has not changed; let's just say that you are the only ones who have changed. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, we have worked day and night to restore the honorable stand of this nation from the history of this nation, from this geography. So, did we just do big jobs in the economy or not transform in politics? Have we not brought to the Constitutional Court as many rights as there are in democratic countries, such as the Human Rights Agency, such as the Rights Agency, from the civilisation of the National Security Council to the ban on headscarf to the lifted? But we're still in business. We've got a lot of work to do. My dear friends, we never got tired of doing this, we still have a lot of work ahead of us. I am Çanakkale MP, we have announced the bridge to Çanakkale in Çanakkale Square with the promise of our Prime Minister. Hopefully, we'll do as many examples as we can to say no to the bridge, to the airport, to those who have no vision but to say no. And you'll see, like nuclear power plants, channel Istanbul, the third airport, we're going to be doing a lot of ambitious world examples, like giant masterpieces, hopefully. Sometimes, dear friends, you may not notice the change you're in. Your child is with you, in your home, growing up, growing taller, you don't even notice. But a relative of yours comes home, a neighbor of yours comes home -- ten days later, a month later -- he says, "The boy has grown taller." You wouldn't notice, but people who look at that transformation from the outside can see it very clearly. Now I'm telling you, we've done these things, we've done these things. Let's look at it backwards, let's try to get out, maybe it's more understandable. I wish we had the opportunity to remember the opposition even though we had the opportunity to remember the old mistakes from time to time so that the AK PARTY wouldn't forget what they did in 14 years. Even if we had a chance, we could have weeks to remember the years before the AK PARTY. For example, if a week of water were to flow in Istanbul; for example, if there were not a week of garbage gathering in Istanbul; for example, if our air were to be dirty again in Istanbul; for example, if people could not enter a week - God forbid -- with their headscarf again -- and apply the coefficient for a week; again, someone in the Assembly would get up and shout out, "Out!" I wish he could remember that. (AK PARTY) I wish the rectors would walk to the post with banners. I wish the judges would come running for a week with a hand whistle. We quickly forgot those days. Dear friends, if only Marmaray could be shut down for a week's memory day week, if only one lane of double roads could be closed, if more than half of the airports could be shut down, if we could remember you for a week, dear friends. If the interest finds 90 per cent again for a week, re-inflation is 100 per cent, and the IMF comes back here, and he determines our raise to the officer, and the IMF's chief minister is around here every day. You remember the IMF days, don't you? In those years of desperation, they told us that Turkey without IMF can't be ruled. It's always been wrong, but now we've shown our friend, our enemy, everyone, that it's Turkey without the IMF. Look, a souvenir. He says we're looking at the IMF loan like we're looking at the liver. Dear friends, I wish this could go on for a week. Another example... You're still picking on me, dear friends. [[No beatings from CHP and MHP rows.]] Another example: If hospitals could leave for a week, this hospital could be tested by the university, this hospital, the state, this hospital. I wish every pharmacy, everyone couldn't give me drugs for a week. I wish we could put Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu back in charge of the SGK for a week.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0090par0058	God forbid, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0059	A week, a week, not much. I know this isn't even a joke, but that's what I'm saying to remember the change, the transformation.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0091par0060	We're not talking nonsense, but don't be disrespectful!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0061	Well, dear friends, one more thing. We have always endured the debate of the Constitutional Court, the debate of the President, the statement of the didictator, and the claim of ▪Saray, as much as we can. I've followed him for thirteen days, every speaker has addressed our Prime Minister, every speaker has insulted our President. No friend of ours has said Mr. Kilicdaroğlu, and I'm giving up why. But, dear friends, if you speak, you'll get your word, my friends. So once again, our literature required our silence, our literature required our silence.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0092par0062	You're not being decent right now!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0063	Every time we talked, you said, "You're the power, shut up!"
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0093par0064	I'm glad you're decent, so if you're dirty, what are you going to say?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0065	No, we're human, we have feelings. When we weren't talking about the budget, we pulled out the numbers of every friend we had, along with our advisors, who had ten sentences at the top. One: "Saray" Two: "Dictator" Three: "The Constitutional Court" Four: "The President of the Republic" Five: "The Countdown Reports" continue. Dear friends, we have answers for all of them.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0094par0067	It doesn't matter, doesn't it?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0068	We know why you call us "dictators." It's not Erdogan you don't like, it's Ahmet Davutoglu you don't like, you don't like this nation that hasn't left it alone for 14 years. You don't like the people we walk with who never leave us. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) For the first time we haven't heard the statement from Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The year is 1950, the dictator of Adnan Menderes. It says CHP. It means it's not about dictatorship; it's about your vision of the people, the people, the people, the people, who walk the road together. Two, not enough, Turgut Ozal; then Mr. President Baykal. Look, Mr. Prime Minister, don't worry, it's the same thing, it's the same thing, it's Ozal, it's you today.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0095par0071	You couldn't read the date, Baykal wasn't the President-General.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0096par0072	It doesn't look good, it doesn't look good!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0073	Look, I hope you're lying. I'm not reciting what I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0095par0074	You didn't take that class, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0075	I said that the friends who said "Dictator" don't like this nation. A week ago, you didn't send a deputy to the disciplinary committee or warn them so there wouldn't be any bullying I wouldn't name. The statement is as follows...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0097par0076	You're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0077	It says: "One of the four people in the kingdom had a social democratic structure, and three others were bigots and bigots a week ago." I'll tell you who he is if you don't know. Can I read it to you guys again? One of CHP's new deputies says that one of the four people in the government has social democratic structures, and three others are bigots and bigots. I don't comment. I told you it's not about Recep Erdoğan, it's not about Mr. Davutoglu, it's about the dictator, it's about you fighting this nation. Another example, another one of your deputies. He says that the expression is just like this: "If you don't want the service -- look, I'll underline it -- when the people don't want it, the people don't want it" --
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0098par0078	Who's the congregation? Isn't the congregation your old comrades? Isn't that the group you've been walking around with for 15 years, arm in arm?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0079	Erdogan can no longer be Prime Minister or President unless he wants a meeting. Let me read it to you guys. She says, "Burned is my rose, linen candy."
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0098par0080	They're your men, aren't they, congregation?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0081	Alas, this is not Mustafa Kemal's party, this is not Mustafa Kemal's party. (AK PARTY) No way. The party where the person says "Parat" can't be the party of Mustafa Kemal. Well, dear friends, one more thing.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0099par0083	Is the budget finished, the budget finished?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0084	Nothing good? Nothing at all? My dear Mr. President-General gave a speech yesterday - Mr. Kilicdaroglu - I applauded in my room, applauded. He said yesterday in his speech, he was talking about Women's Day...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0100par0085	It's not your place to clap.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0086	For a long time, they had to deal with the headscarf. Your disguises and outfits are not a political issue. You can dress all you want, talk all you want, travel all you want. (Applause, applause, bravo, thank you.)
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0101par0088	One more time, one more time!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0089	Well, dear friends -- same Mr. Kilicdaroglu -- read another article a few years ago, says Mr. Kilicdaroglu, deputy leader of the CHP Group, applied to the Constitutional Court for the annulment of the editorial law with the signature of 112 MPs. Let's see, 2 Kılıçdaroğlu, give this one a round of applause; let's hear it from the EC PARTI, give it a round of applause. So I'll say it again: we're here for everyone who's evolved, who's turned.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0102par0091	Tell me about the budget, the budget.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0092	I'm going to move on to another matter: there's something we've seen in the last term that we've been sad about. Terror again in Turkey has come to the attention, but they have made statements about terrorism again that have not been taken from this platform.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0103par0093	Thanks to you, thanks to you...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0094	This is where we stand again. Please don't leave the peace crying to the Prime Minister. We are where this child is, we are in the same place. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] They insisted that we start the operation after June 7th. It's a huge injustice, my friends -- I want to answer it -- it's a huge mistake, because the operations didn't start until June 7th. Before and after June 7th, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)'s repeated attack was a retrial study of terrorism. Look, despite the well-intentioned talks in these studies, despite the risks taken by the entire EC PARTI government, let's solve this problem for a hundred years, it can't just be by transferring it to security bureaucracy, it can't be civil will here. Even though it's said, political structures and terrorist organizations who have become a toy of global forces have failed to evaluate this process. They came here shamelessly and tirelessly and said that the AK PARTY had ended the peace process. Our dear friends, between June 7th and July 24th, why July 24th? The date the operation began was July 24th-11 when our security guards were killed, 41 of our citizens lost their lives, 11 dams were attacked, 500 vehicles burned, going on. It's never June 7th, it's the activities of the terrorist organization from June 7th to operations. One page goes on, and I'm not gonna tell you because there's no time. So we've never heard you say: "You're terrorists, don't bring news of martyrdom when there's peace." You never said, "Take young people by force from their parents to the mountains." You didn't say, "Stop killing civilians." You never made our citizens say, "Stop." You didn't say, "Don't do it." You didn't say, "Peace." You didn't say, "Peace." It's too late, there's no other possibility; as a state, as a right to the Kurds, the state has taken steps to ensure their safety, and now you're calling it peace. No, the work there will never stop and continue until the last terrorist for the sisterhood of 78 million is destroyed or the weapons are buried, so that the Kurds can also relax. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] I have a list. Look, there's a general president who sometimes plays the reed and sometimes goes to Kandil, and he's got 122 requests to the street around him. There's 122 dates here, guys. KCK is separate, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) is separate, HDP is separate. Once again, go to 122 streets. There's an invitation. What peace are you guys talking about? It's not peace calls, it's war calls. Go to the street, kill Yasin Börür. What peace will they speak of? Go to the street, kill the Kurds. What peace will they talk about? You have defiled the peace.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0104par0102	You're lying!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0103	You're the one who's lying. Are you the one who's lying? Which one of you is it? Let me see it. Let me see it.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0104par0104	You're lying!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0105par0105	You begged me to leave.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0089par0106	You're lying. Come on out, I'll give you this. Either your own CEO is a liar or you're a liar.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0104par0107	You're lying, he doesn't have that look.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0105par0108	Go to Kandil. You begged!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0106par0109	Please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0107par0110	You're either a liar or you're a liar. Look, there's 122 dates here, and I'll read it to you one by one.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0106par0111	Congressmans, please do not interfere.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0107par0112	And that's Yasin Bör, look at your face if you're embarrassed. Look, Yasin Bör, look a little, look a little, look a little.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0108par0113	Where are the other photos? Where are the others?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0109par0114	You killed him like ice.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0110par0115	Mr. Bulent, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0111par0116	They've got the tweets over there, go out on the street, go out on the street.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0112par0117	Why don't you come to a Roboski?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0111par0118	You will decide whether you are the party of the street, the party of the Kandil, or the party of this nation? That's for you to decide. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) You're screaming from there.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0112par0119	Why don't you come to a Roboski?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0111par0120	Either way, you're going to say all kinds of things, you're going to attack this power that puts the problem of the century on the table, but those who can't speak to the PKK without shame will come in here and call us "murderers" for 13 days, calling us "dictors" and accusing us of terrorism. I'm just telling you, get out of here! (AK PARTY) By God, our dear friends now understood what our Kurdish citizens, the HDP, understood where they were. Look, there's an important study, and he's doing a Department of Sociology at Dicle University. He asks me if I'm going to be short-handed because there's no time - is it right to dig a lot? He says, "Is the government right?" The vast majority says, "God damn Kurds!" (EA/DG) Now the decision of the PKK to get rid of HDP's custody has been made by our Kurdish brothers. They ask: "Immunity will rise or not? " [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0113par0124	Mr. Turan, I'll give you one more minute, please.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0111par0125	Your immunity has been lifted by our Kurdish brothers. Despite 122 invitations, despite the Friday prayer theater, no one is coming to action and will not come. So in four months, your vote has fallen to 15 percent, to 10 percent, and to even more.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0114par0126	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0111par0127	These people have seen your faces. The Kurdish party has more Kurdish brothers than you. If you are going to be the voice of Turkey and everyone else, you speak, but if you are going to be the voice of Kandil, then we will tell you to stop.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0115par0128	Shame on you! As deputy president of the group, a high school student...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0111par0129	Dear friends, the AK PARTY has left 14 years behind. We're not tired, we're still excited, we start with the first day of love. It's a case movement, you can't understand it, and it's an understanding that exceeds the party, it's a movement of civilization, you can't understand that. Until the last victim's head is stroked, until the last martyr mother's rights are removed from the terrorist, until the last orphan's head is caressed, until the last victim's right is asked of the tyrant. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0116par0132	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0117par0133	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0116par0134	Yes, ma'am, Mr. Age... Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0117par0136	Mr. President, Mr. AKP, I demand a say in accordance with the Civil Code concerning our party as we speak on the stand. There was bullying because, you know, you heard it, you saw it.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0116par0137	Yes, sir. Ma'am, sir, two minutes... Please, let's not afford another tease. Here you go, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0118par0144	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, our co-Chair didn't steal the money, he stole the reed.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0119par0145	Go, go, go!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0118par0146	Those who steal money are obvious, and those who steal it are obvious, and those who steal it are obvious, and those who steal it and those who steal it are obvious.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0120par0148	On November 1st, he was accounted for.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0118par0149	Yes, our Co-Chair went to Kandil. He went with the state's knowledge.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0121par0150	Wow! Wow!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0122par0151	Bravo! Bravo!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0123par0152	Please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0124par0153	If needed, he'll go again, and again, he'll go everywhere to solve the Kurdish problem. He's been everywhere. For a country where people are not slaughtered, they are not killed, they have not lost their lives, for a country where peace and freedom will come, let us express once again that we are ready for anything.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0125par0154	There's nothing to say, she went to Kandil. She said.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0126par0155	We went by your law, by your law; we went by your request.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0124par0156	Let us say: Yes, we have stated that we will see everywhere in order for the Kurdish problem to be resolved, in order for the war to end in this country.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0127par0157	You can't solve the Kurdish problem.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0124par0158	Government officials know that very well. It's talks within the knowledge of government officials. They can explain it from here. Secondly, Yasin Bör; yes, we were there, we were in Diyarbakır. Why not just Yasin Bör, Mr. Vice President, the 50 people who were murdered in Diyarbakir? Well, why doesn't it mean that 178 people were burned to death in the basements of the atrocities in Cizre, Mr. Group President? We demand that the AKP government go to Cizre with the smell of burnt flesh, the dismembered bodies. Let him go, in the burnt basements, where people are handed over to their families...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0128par0160	Terrorists, terrorists.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0124par0161	...with two bags of bones, this is your child. Let him see the understanding and the mentality that says, "This is your child." We know all that.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0129par0162	Tell the PKK, to the PKK!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0124par0163	We know what's been happening in the area for a week, ten days. Do you blame those who expose naked bodies? That's what we're asking you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0130par0166	Sir, thank you. It's time to...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0131par0168	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0130par0169	Sir, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0131par0170	Sir, there's an issue here that a terrorist organization has been led by the government. Shouldn't the government make a statement about this?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0130par0171	Appreciation is theirs, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0131par0172	That's what I'm talking about. The Prime Minister is here.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0130par0173	It's theirs. There will already be a speech on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0131par0175	Who knows what cooperation they're going there for, and let our saintly nation know the truth. In that respect, I'd like to make this clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0130par0178	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Sir, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Ankara MP Ali Babacan has the second say. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0132par0186	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on behalf of valued lawmakers, the 2016 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2014 Central Management Computation Act. I salute you all. I wish the budget of 2016 would be a blessing for our nation, for our country. I also want to thank all of our institutions, especially our Finance Ministry, who have been involved in preparing the budget. I would also like to thank the President and members of our Plan and Budget Commission, who have worked hard at both the Commission and at the General Assembly stage. During budget work, we listened to a lot of our deputies, followed them. I would also like to express my appreciation for the commission and for the statements and constructive contributions expressed on this bench. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the budget we're going to complete today is the 14th budget prepared by the AK PARTY governments. We do a background check every year on the basis of budget talks, and we're considering future policies, and it's very useful for all of us. In particular, it is important to emphasize that after the November 1st election, which was a very high turnout of 85 per cent, this Parliament is a parliament that has been granted the will of 97.5 per cent of our voting citizens. This Congress is a very powerful House of Representatives. I'm honored to be a member of such a House. This is where our country's problems will be discussed and resolved. With violence, there's no way to get anywhere with terror. This great Parliament, where each section represents every trend, has a historical responsibility to solve our country's problems, as long as we can discuss everything openly, freely, here, and we can come up with a solution. In advanced democracies, parliament is the only address for solving problems and building the future. I would like to take this opportunity to cherish the martyrs who died for this country in the acts of terror. I ask God's mercy on our civilian citizens who have lost their lives, and I ask patience for their families and relatives. And I sincerely hope that violence and terror will be over in our country as soon as possible. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have deepened their financial and commercial ties to the world, which have been rapidly developing in the past 13 years. This has also increased our need to keep a closer eye on the developments in the global economy. Last year, our performance as chairman of the G20 platform, and our performance in this period, has once again demonstrated how abundant Turkey is in the world's economic and financial problems, and how well equipped it is to produce solutions. On the G20 agenda, we've made three key assessments of the world's economy, three key priorities: capacities, practices and investments. For the first time, we have established a mechanism that will monitor the structural reforms of the G20 countries, which will follow the implementation. Together with the International Chamber of Commerce, we established the World Forum for the KOBI for the first time, and for the first time, the COBIs now have an official voice on international platforms. Under B20, we've established a COBI task force. The COBI perspective is now constantly reflected in all G20 studies, these are permanent structures. For the first time, we've assembled the G20 energy ministers, and we've prepared a plan for action for the electricity of poor countries. We've gathered G20 food ministers, and we've devised an action plan that aims to reduce the waste of food in the world. We've created the W20, the Women's 20 platform, which aims to increase the role and efficiency of women in the labour market. We've made it a G20 decision to expand the non-interest financial system around the world. These priorities and new works that we've identified have been adopted by all G20 countries at the Antalya summit of our President's presidency, and are being continued this year by the Chinese presidency. Our country has successfully passed a great test. Before we take into considerations of Turkey's economy, I would like to share with you briefly the issues and especially the risks of the world economy. After the global crisis, the world has yet to find a strong, balanced and sustainable growth trend. The rate of growth of the world's trade is less than 50/50 compared to before the crisis. Investment spending is low. The potential growth rate of many countries has dropped prior to the crisis. The predictions for the coming term show that a quick recovery of the global economy is not expected in the near future. In the period just after the global crisis, developing economies have taken over their engine role in growth, while recently the needle has turned towards developed economies. The US economy provides a stronger growth than other developed countries, while the expected resurgence in the eurozone and Japan is still under way. On the other hand, some of the European countries implementing the right economic programmes are recovering, and this reflects positively on our exports to those countries. As for developing countries, the rate of growth in the Chinese economy has dropped last year, while there have been deep economic recessions in Russia and Brazil, a narrowing of about 4% in Brazil in 2015, and another 3 per cent is expected for this year. In 2015, India's economy continued to separate from other countries in a positive direction. Last year, the decline in all commodity prices, especially oil prices, has generally affected global demand. Due to significant losses of revenue in export countries, the public finances and economies of these countries have suffered serious disruptions. Oil importers, such as Turkey, have been favourably affected by increasing spendingable income and improved external balance, under the influence of low prices. Since 2015, the monetary policy of developed countries began to separate, and after nearly nine years, the American Central Bank went to increase interest last December. Meanwhile, the central banks of many developed countries continue to implement enlargementary monetary policies. The decline in the FED's interest increase process and the slowdown in the Chinese economy has increased fluctuations in the financial markets, especially in developing countries. The negatives in the global economy last year will continue to exist as the risks we face in the coming period. In China, especially in developing countries, the loss of momentum, the poor trade volume, the tightening of US monetary policy, the increasing demand for commodity prices, the low demand in commodity exporters countries, the reduction in capital trends in developing countries, geopolitical tensions and political uncertainties are the basic risk factors that we will follow this year. In short, in the global economy, the situation is still risky and requires close surveillance. Mr. President, the Turkish economy has grown by 3.4 per cent in the first three quarters of 2015 in an environment where there are negative developments in the global economy and financial markets, where geopolitical risks are increasing, where we have four elections in a row. We expect growth of around 4% throughout the year. By the end of March, as you know, the exact numbers will be announced. I'd like to stress, in particular, that many emerging economies are much higher than the expected growth rate for 2015. We expect growth to gain some more momentum in 2016. With the support of the income policy, the expected domestic demand resuscitation and moderate improvement of the external economic conjunctura will affect this year's growth. Since the global crisis, many other developed and developing countries are still struggling to create jobs, while employment continues to grow in our country. Since 2009, Turkey's economy has provided additional jobs for 6 million people, so the number of people working in Turkey has increased by 6 million people, and in a global crisis. However, a growing turnout to the labour force, especially in the leadership of our young and women, has led to a high unemployment rate. During our governments, Turkey averaged a 4.7 per cent annual growth. This growth as a country has also been an inclusive growth. This growth has been effective in reducing poverty. In some countries, growth is increasing, while income distribution is increasing; Turkey has achieved a growing growth where growth and prosperity spread more fairly to large communities. We no longer have a citizen with less than a dollar a day in our country. Again, by the size of the World Bank, we are out of populations of less than $2.15. In fact, if we look under $4.3, which is the highest bar, 30 percent of our population lived under $4.3 in 2002 -- the latest 2014 data -- according to 2014, only 1.6 percent of our population lives under this $4.3. Turkey has been one of the most rapidly improved revenue distributions in all OECD countries, as OECD reported recently. According to World Bank data, the total population of our country's middle class has increased from 20 per cent to 40 per cent. Public revenue policy has also contributed greatly to the improvement of this revenue distribution. The minimum civil servant salary, including family aid allowance, increased by 93.5% from 2002-2015 when we were really free of inflation. The net minimum wage has increased by 126 percent. The lowest SEC pension has increased by 61 per cent to real. These rates show that both our employees and retired citizens' disposable income has been significantly increased. Turkey is an exception in this regard in all developing countries. It has been a country with progress, development, but at the same time prosperity spreads to large communities, where development is felt by everyone. Dear lawmakers, inflation is above expectations due to the high rate of increase in foreign currency and food prices in 2015. Inflation needs to go down to lower levels. Turkey's foreign trade volume increased by four times more in 2015 than in 2002, reaching 351 billion dollars. The number undoubtedly includes the euro-dollar courtship effect. The Euro's loss of value in the face of dollars or the dollar's value in the face of euros may have brought down some of those numbers in dollars, but from where I'm standing, a four-fold increase is a significant increase. Moreover, our export markets and our products are diversified. Thus, exports have increased in endurance against external shocks that could occur in any region or sector. Besides, the narrowing down in this recent Iraqi market we live in is very limited to the total number of problems we face in a Russian market. This is the positive result of the time-watched diversification policy. Cari operations deficits have been dwindling since 2014, as well as the low course of energy prices and the improvement in net gold exports, and this decline has continued in 2015. As of the end of 2015, it's down to 4.5 percent. 4.5 is still high on its own. We also need to be aware of this, and explain the current, and we must continue the fight in the coming period. In 2015 there was a short-term capital output from Turkey due to a decrease in global risk appetite. That's true, but with long-term capital intakes, direct capital intakes have been strong throughout 2015. The sound banking sector, one of the essential conditions for our economic stability, continued to grow healthy in 2015. The banking sector has also managed to maintain a strong capital structure while raising its balance sheet. Capital efficiency rates are about twice as high as the legal lower bounds in 2015. On the other hand, the percentage of late-received creditors is at reasonable levels. In Turkey, in recent years, the GDP of household debt has risen to 23 per cent, but compared to other countries, it is still a low number. However, in order to maintain and maintain macro financial stability, the debt of the household must be closely monitored, and in this framework, the rate of growth in consumer loans has slowed, individual credit cards reduced nominally -- and the household's financial assets and obligations have become more stable and sustainable since 2014. Dear lawmakers, in pre-EC PARTY times, Turkey has had serious problems in public finance for many years, and these problems have been the main cause of many economic crises. Thanks to our decisive policy and reforms, our success in public finance has made our economy much more resistant to internal and external shocks. In the time of the global crisis, with the help of the powerful banking sector, this firm stance in public finance has led to the positive separation of our country from other countries. While many countries have tried to rise public deficits during the crisis, Turkey has quickly exited the crisis and managed to differentiate itself by maintaining financial discipline. While many countries are still dealing with problems in public finances, Turkey has brought the general state budget to an equal point in 2015. This is the best performance of the last nine years. As a result of the current economic programme, fiscal discipline and effective debt strategies, the GDP of the European Union's defined debt stock was reduced to 32.6 per cent in 2015 by less than 40 points compared to 2002. The debt's rate of national income has dropped, while its structure has also improved. In 2002, 58 per cent of the central management debt stock was in exchange for foreign currency, while it dropped to 35 per cent. In fact, I'm talking about the public's external debt, foreign debt in terms of currency, as it resets -- it's been a bit of a plus in the last couple of years. Similarly, 55 per cent of the debt stock was made up of variable interest bonds in 2002, while the rate was reduced to 33 per cent. The average period of internal debt rose from nine months in 2002 to seventy-two months in 2015 to six years. Imagine that a debt the size of 74 per cent of the national income and a debt returned with an average of nine months due to 38 per cent of the national income and a six-year deadline has been achieved by the Turkish public. Due to the improvement of public finances, interest rates have dropped and interest payments have declined. In 2002, interest costs amounted to 43 per cent in total expenditures, while in 2015 it dropped to 10.5 per cent. In 2002, the proportion of interest costs was 14.8 per cent, while in 2015, only 2.7 per cent. The reduction of interest costs has allowed public investments, especially social areas that have been inextricable for years. This has made it possible to make significant increases in social spending, especially in education and health. Mr. President, good lawmakers, it is very important to maintain financial discipline during the time of our governments. This is essential for strengthening macroeconomic stability and strengthening our potential for growth. In 2002, the GDP deficit, which was 11.5% of the central management deficit, dropped to 1.2 per cent in 2015, and the 2016 budget, hopefully, is 1.3 per cent in the budget that we will meet today. They're pretty tight targets, and they don't signal a release in finance policy. In our 2016 budget, the highest share is again reserved for education, health and infrastructure investments. Education is the focus of our development process. In 2002, only 9 per cent of our budget was earmarked for education, while the 2016 budget reached 19 per cent. So almost one fifth of the budget is divided into education only and only now. Health spending has also reached 17 per cent of the budget. Here's how real social policy is reflected in the budget, this budget, the 2016 budget, it's very clear to all the public. Public infrastructure investments that support growth continue rapidly, and its share of the budget rose to 10.5 per cent in 2016, and the average time of completion of investments has dropped from eight and a half years to four years. In addition, the implementation of public-private co-operation projects in our country has also become very widespread, and when we take out what is being carried out in the way of the transition of business rights, the total investment size has reached about 48 billion dollars, and 39 billion of that is after 2002. In order to increase the scope of growth, support continues for every part of our society, especially for our women, our young and disabled citizens, and the budget allowance set aside for those purposes in 2016 is 43 billion euros. Ever since we came to power, agriculture is one of the primary sectors, and our support for agriculture continues to grow. Although our budget for 2016 shows an allowance of 11.6 billion euros, we see that the figure actually increases to 15 billion when we add agricultural loan subsidies, investments, and agricultural financing. In fact, when we consider the loss of 2.4 billion in revenues from the removal of VAT in fertilizer and bait, for the first time this year, our agricultural budget is up to 17.6 billion. Support for RD spending continues in 2016, and further strengthening the efficiency and productive structure of our economy will be targeted in this way. In 2016, the amount of support for our SMEs is increased by 3 times more than 2015 to the level of $1 billion. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been the two most important factors in maintaining Turkey's macroeconomic stability in an extremely difficult external and domestic conjunctural sector, budget discipline and sound banking sector. Despite all the internal and external development, if there's not a serious shake in our economy, we need to connect it to these two solid points, budget discipline, and solid financial system. In the coming period, both areas must be carefully monitored and never allowed to weaken. Inflation, on the other hand, has recently seen high single digits. In the coming period, it will be very important to use monetary policy tools decisively in the fight against inflation, and to use mechanisms effectively, such as the Food Committee, which will investigate and solve structural causes of inflation. Another structural problem we have is that the current is open, and although it has fallen in recent years, it is still a subject that needs to be followed carefully. Cari, it is important to use budget discipline in the short term, monetary policy and macro precautionary measures effectively in the fight. In the medium long term, the permanent solution is the firm implementation of structural reforms. Mr. President, the mid-term programme covering strategy, policy and structural reform areas on basic economic and social issues regarding the next three-year period has been implemented in January. As you know, the medium-term program, which began with new legal regulations during the AK PARTI administrations, brings significant predictability to our economy, and in a three-year perspective, macroeconomic goals and structural reforms in many areas are clearly revealed, and these programs are being updated every year with three years of windows. The main aims of the medium-term programme are to increase growth with a stable and inclusive quality, to reduce inflation, to maintain the trend in the current deficit, to increase the competitiveness of the economy, the level of employment and efficiency, to improve the quality of financial discipline and strengthen public finance. Under these basic goals, it is vital that structural reforms continue to be implemented. On December 10, 2015, the 64th government announced by our Prime Minister began the implementation of the Action Plan 2016. Economic reforms in the year 2016 Action Plan can actually be met under two main objectives: first, reforms to increase total factor data for strong and sustainable growth; second, the use of all segments of society before growth; in other words, reforms to be adopted in line with the goal of enveloping growth. In addition, the implementation of 25 priority transformation programmes in the Tenth Development Plan, previously announced by our Prime Minister, is effectively monitored. In this scope, it is a basic priority to increase investments and exports in the process of implementing actions in action plans, to bring down the current deficit, to increase the level of employment and efficiency, to boost competitiveness, to strengthen public finance and to increase the quality of financial discipline, and to speed up the legal regulations required by these actions. Turkey's growth strategy during this programme has been determined to develop human capital, activate the labour market, increase technology and innovation development capacity, strengthen physical infrastructure, improve institutional quality. For strong and sustainable growth, it is very important to increase the overall efficiency of the factor in our country, and that includes reforms that will enable us to use and develop our labour market potential, and reforms that will improve our investment environment and facilitate the financing of investments. Education is a prerequisite for boosting labour market efficiency. In addition to education in our country, it is also important to improve skills and encourage entrepreneurial initiative. There have been significant increases in the age of our governments at the level of education in our country. In order to increase labour-force efficiency, education will be further popularized and the development of its quality will be very decisive. It is also a key priority for young people to improve their labor skills and to bring their potential into the economy. The total economic size of a country can be calculated by different methods. One of these methods is the collection of the added values that occur in that country. The most healthy way to expand the economy is to produce a higher added value. Good educated people produce higher added value. Here, investment in education will ultimately be the key to a higher level of prosperity. In our country, women's participation in the labor force has increased by our policies, but even increased numbers are below world standards. A significant potential in the economy will be revealed, as women have more and more active participation in the labour force and produce more added value. The labour market in Turkey is very strict for many countries, and that is one of the main reasons why our unemployment levels are high. Making our labour market more flexible will reduce unemployment rates, and the reform programme on this issue has a very comprehensive content. In order for growth to be more inclusive, it will be important for our young people and our women, as well as for the COBIs to play a more effective role in the production chain in our economy in the coming period. The improvement of the investment environment is very, very decisive. Increased industrial investments in Turkey is the basis of our healthy, sustainable development. An investment environment that is more open to international capital, which supports more international capital, regardless of the domestic-foreignist distinction, would be very decisive to increase Turkey's well-being and employment. In Turkey, the savings rate is around 16 per cent of the national income, so our investment rate is below 4.5 points, while financing investments with our savings should be the main goal. More domestic savings and financing of the private sector and public investments that Turkey needs will significantly reduce our country's dependence on the outside of capital entry. In our country, it is important to increase investments in medium and upper technology to support high-incremental production, and to increase the share of high-tech products in production and exports will depend on it. More RD, more innovation, more branding, and thus higher addition value are being targeted. What is to be done in these matters is also clearly written in reform programmes. And I would like to make it perfectly clear that Turkey is the country that has the most detailed structural reform preparation of all G20 countries. We're really pleased to see this as we've been on the platform where we were president last year, and we've been doing a very thorough review of other countries' reform preparations. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have reached higher standards in Turkey today as a result of several political reforms launched under the leadership of our President in 2002. The European Union process, which constitutes the backbone of our political reform programme, has increased our country's predictability and has contributed greatly to our economic achievements. Turkey must protect its achievements, never allow it to go back, aim for the highest standards our people deserve in democracy, fundamental rights and freedoms. The key to success in the economy is the environment of trust and stability. The source of our stability is a democracy based on national will, but democratic stability is strong, permanent. On the other hand, the uncompromising implementation of the rule of law is essential for the progress of our democracy and for the strengthening of our economy. There are no permanent economic achievements in countries where legal security cannot be achieved, and democracy often suffers. In the coming period, Turkey must move simultaneously in democracy, both in law and in the economy. From this tripartite, which is democracy, law and economy, whichever one of them stays weak, if any of them stays behind, our country will not be able to achieve its goals. That's why the new draft constitution we're going to be working on in the coming months will be very important to our country. Furthermore, the implementation of the judicial reform strategy that our government has announced will be very decisive in our country's success in the coming period. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been dealt with and carried out by the Justice and Development Party by all economic policies from a holistic understanding and a long-term perspective until today. Continuity and consistency have been our basic principles. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] 2016...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0133par0247	Mr. Babacan, can you wrap this up in a minute, please? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0132par0249	Our budget for 2016 is based on these principles: continuity, consistency and integrity. One of the most important pillars of macroeconomic stability will be the careful and uncompromising implementation of this budget throughout 2016. In the short term, financial sector and monetary policies will also be very decisive in maintaining macroeconomic stability. Structural reforms are a central, long-term area that requires patience and effort that will ensure the overall prosperity of our country. As I end my words here, I wish that our budget for 2016 would be good for our country, for our people, for a faster-growing Turkey, for all parts of our society to rise to a higher standard of living. Again, I'd like to thank our Dear Finance Minister and his team, the President of the Plan and Budget Commission and all the ministers who contributed, and all the MPs who contributed to the commission and the General Assembly. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0134par0253	Thank you, Mr. Babacan. Sir, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Faik Öztrak is a member of Tekirdağ. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0135par0257	Mr. President, I have received the final promise on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the valued MPs, the budget bill for 2016 and the overall draft of the 2014 Final Accounts Act. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our fellow saints watching us at the head of their television. Dear lawmakers, we've had budget talks on days when our young children, innocent people, have fallen like leaves into the land of our country, and our mouths have run out of taste, and our souls are blackened. Since last July, we have had over 300 martyrs. We've lost hundreds of innocent lives in the traitorous terrorist attacks in Diyarbakir, Suruç, Ankara. Tourists who came to our country became targets of live bombs in Istanbul. The last time we lost two of our citizens in the church yesterday was the attack of ISIS terror groups, where two of our security guards were killed. I ask the grace of God to all our martyrs, to all our innocent citizens who have died, and to our guests. My condolences to the families and the whole nation we lost. As a member of the Veteran Assembly, who fought the most legitimate, most sacred war in the world, I would like to warn today's imperialists and those who carry water into their mill from this stand. Terrorists in Reyhanlı, Diyarbakir, Suruç, Ankara, and İstanbul have to know clearly that the only outcome you will get is the growing anger of our nation against terrorism, the growing hatred of our nation, the growing hatred and the steel-soaked struggle of our schools and mosques. Our nation's struggle with terrorism will surely succeed. Respected MPs, this nation has no patron but the Republic of Turkey. No one will ever fail to find love on the outside, and this country will be enough for all of us. Ninety years ago, the heavy wreckage of ill-advised, incompatible and possible governments took away our nation's blood and life. Ninety years ago, we learned that our last and eternal homeland is Anatolia, Thrace, and there is no other land that can go beyond this land. For patriots, it's a state of honor, we don't give away a single pebble. Every member of the Veteran Assembly must act with this political consciousness. Dear lawmakers, what we have experienced today shows clearly what trouble our country will face when it is thrown from Ataturk nationalism to ethnic nationalism, secularism to sectarianism. The achievements of the Republic of Turkey that were crowned with victory 90 years ago are common history to all of us. Those who forget this fact and are so proud of their own time that they've always been crushed under the glory of history. (HPP) Whatever this historical truth, adjective, position, and location, everyone must now embrace it. I, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who founded the Republic of Turkey, thank you to all the heroes of our nation, to our Veteran Assembly, to build this great work, to protect it, to all our martyrs and veterans, who are not alive today, with mercy and gratitude. Without their heroics, their services, our glorious flag would not be raised on this land, nor would the voices of the oppressors be heard. Dear lawmakers, politics is made to facilitate, enrich, and beautify human life. Both power and opposition are an instrument of this struggle. A good-working democracy puts the best service to the public to work, allowing power to answer to the public. If there's no honey in a country, there's no fear in houses, there's no hope, there's no democracy, there's no political institution, or there's no power. Democracy is flawed in Turkey today; politics cannot function; power cannot govern the country. However, in an environment where global, regional and local conjuncturality is rapidly deteriorating, we need more than ever a complete democracy, a well-functioning politics, and a government that will rule the country properly. Dear lawmakers, at this critical time in our society, in our institutional nature, in our relations with our neighbors, in our economy, we are building serious vulnerability. I'm afraid if we don't take precautions, we're going to have one of the scariest, most troubled earthquakes in our history. Resolving tensions in the fault lines is today the top priority of politics. Therefore, in the presence of the High Assembly, I consider it an important duty and responsibility to draw attention to these vulnerabilitys, to share our opinions and suggestions. Dear lawmakers, for a long time our social life has been breaking down, polarization is increasing. In every social event, we have a deep dissolution. For this, we can resort to the most vulgar lies openly or secretly, our lives are polluted by the poisonous language of trolls, the most sacred values of this society are abused for personal purposes, the peace and security of social life is becoming increasingly extinct, open to outside attacks, soft bellies. Dear lawmakers, one of the duties of the opposition is to question the actions of power, to hold a mirror to power. The country is governed, especially after 2009, by an understanding that makes insults, contempt, capitalization of anger, and is trying to raise political rants. The society is so innocent, so righteous that even the demands of society are the subject of tension, separation and exclusion. During the ship's events, Kabataş was attacked by our headscarved sister, drinking at the mosque. She referred to false scenarios, hateful rhetoric, to our presence and to our inner peace. By God, the destruction of our nation did not permit a great disaster. There are countless examples like this. The owner of those words still maintains a similar attitude. Dear MPs, finally our grandparents, in Artvin Cerattepe, came down to the street with their canes, saying, "Don't touch my land, my water, my nature!" They came up with a democratic response, saying, "The top of Artvin is more valuable than the gold." Is there a final court order banning that mine? There is, not one, but more than one court order. Yet, to open the way for a businessman who is notorious for swearing at people, you gasted our grandparents. But let's not get ahead of ourselves here, Mr. Prime Minister, when things escalated, he took a moderate stance and tried to bring all the sections together and soften the mood. Just as this conciliatory approach hoped that it would contribute to the normalisation of the country, the certain anger called on our grandparents, our grandparents, the Traveler, to mock them. Not enough, the pool media has declared those who claim their land a traitor. The position, which should represent the Turkish nation's unity, continued to polarise the nation. Our hope was short - lived when we said, "Will the mind finally prevail over anger?" Dear lawmakers, a study in Turkey reveals the critical dimensions of polarisation. According to this study, eight of every 10 citizens living in the country do not want to be neighbors with one of the different parties. He says, "I will not give my daughter to one of the rival parties. " Of the 10 citizens, seven are not even asking their children to be friends with their children. That's where we're going. Let me share the international indicator with you. According to the International Agency for Economic Co-operation and Development, Turkey ranked 120 percent in social harmony among 155 countries. That's what's going on in our country with the numbers of how there's a hard dissolution, the loss of peace and trust. That's what anger and hate language, separatist politics, brings to society, lawmakers. We were unable to even use the freedoms guaranteed in the Constitution. Well, here's to freedom of the press. First you start by putting journalists and writers in jail, and now you close the paper with the trustee's hand. As polarization increases in the country, freedom zones also shrink. That's what the World Freedom House data says. Of the 195 countries around the world, 86 are free. We're not in this league, Congressman. We're in the middle of 59 countries where freedoms are partly limited, so we're in the minor league. However, I fear that if the current trend does not change, a few years from now, Egypt, Iran, Libya, and Russia will be on the side of the last 50 countries with no freedoms. Social harmonisation has been transmitted to the most fundamental cell of society, the family institution. Divorces are rapidly increasing. That's not what I'm saying, guys. That's what the OECD data says. Of the 37 countries in this organization, following Spain, Turkey has grown the fastest divorces in the past decade. Yesterday was the Day of the Working Women of the World. Once again, I celebrate the Women's Day of all women. One of the most important victims of social tension is women. In Turkey, 38 of the 150 women are subjected to physical assault. The rate of divorced or separated women is 75%. Dear lawmakers, in countries where social balance and harmony are broken, in countries where polarization increases, people's futures are blackened, fire falls into their pockets, fire breaks out in their kitchen. Where there's no peace, there's no trust, there's no investment, there's no shopping. Where there's no investment, where there's no shopping, food and bread don't grow, people don't get jobs. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, another fault line that I'd like to point out to you is in the institutional structure. The fish stink from the beginning. The proverb speaks very well of the corruption of the institutional structure and management system in our country today. Mr. President, the head of the state is obliged to observe the implementation of the Constitution, the regular and harmonised work of state bodies. Our people have chosen the President to carry out these tasks in our Constitution. The president agreed to this and took the oath according to the Constitution. However, after Mr. President arrived, his first job was to move the parliamentary system into the waiting room. It wasn't enough, and he took over the government, saying it created a real situation. Finally, the Constitutional Court said it didn't know the verdict, said it wouldn't comply, and seized the judiciary by ordering other courts to do so. So, the President, whom the people have chosen to carry out their written duties in the Constitution, now that I have the power, I don't know this Constitution, I make the rules. There's no need to twist the words. This is clearly a civil coup attempt. Using the resources of democracy, the coffin of the democratic system, the separation of forces, and the coffin of law is nailed to the coffin. The lamb is entrusted to the wolf. By observing the implementation of the Constitution, the authorities have issued the Constitution, the declaration, and the establishment of the Constitution. At the end of this chaos, a despotic dress for the pleasure and body of a single person is being made. Our parliament has an obligation to maintain its rights and powers and to prevent this initiative. Dear lawmakers, there's no point in dividing 78 million by a presidential system where the winner gets everything. The solution is a pluralistic democracy that embraces different parts, different interests, involving each part of society in decision-making processes, expanding freedoms. The system is also called the reinforced parliamentary system. There are 36 stable democracies in the world, 30 of which are run by parliamentary systems. Again, 17 percent of the top 20 countries in the world's most civilized, richest, human development are run by the parliamentary system. Only two of these countries have a presidential system, valued MPs. The last country, Switzerland, has its own regime. However, when we look at 20 of the world's poorest, most human-evolved countries, there are 14 presidential and 5 presidential systems. The numbers tell us, dear friends, that a powerful parliamentary system enriches both countries and nations and citizens and people. So break the custody chains on you. Let's all fight together to build a strengthened parliamentary system that provides wealth and prosperity. Dear lawmakers, in countries where laws are not respected, rules and institutions are ignored, corrupts share in the bread of the poor, hands reaching for the treasure of the nation are many. Where there is corruption, where there is theft, there is not nature, but the green of the dollar. Those green dollars hide in shoeboxes. Those who run the government chase coupons. We've been through this in our country. 78 million of our citizens have witnessed this disgrace in the world. As a result, the perception of corruption in Turkey has rapidly reduced to the level of the 1990s -- the level of years that have been slandered, lost, you call them. The Global Corruption Perception Index, designed by the Transparency International, makes that clear. The year is 1995, corruption perception in Turkey is 41 points out of 100; corruption perception in Turkey is 42 points out of 100 in 2015. Don't stop, keep going. You said, you've gone too far, you've gone too far, you've returned to corruption twenty years ago. However, after 2001, the reforms of this Assembly changed the rule of the game. As Secretary of the Treasury at the time, I was saying to the world, "There is no more corruption in Turkey, we burned the ships." I was wrong. So what happened? During the AKP, all the rules, the laws were broken. The Public Contraction Law has changed 34 times since 2003. Is there a law that changes every 150 days, guys? It happened in Turkey. The pleasure increased so much that the Prime Minister of the period went on a television show without consulting even the authorities, where he cancelled a tender for a highway that had been held. From that day on, investors began to say, "Our property in this country has no security. " The economy got a little worse every day. The government tried to bill it to the Central Bank of the United States or to travel, but the main reason for the corruption in the economy was its own understanding of governance, which did not recognise the rule of law. Tax and insurance audits have been the means to put political pressure on businessmen. Unsatisfactory punishments have begun to fly. The judiciary adopted orders to make political statements and filed indictments. Then the trustees seized the property of the nation. The most successful figures of the state-run capital are sacrificed to political power's internal conflicts and fights. Under that understanding, Turkey is losing constant altitude in the Global Economic Freedom Index. In 2016, Turkey's economic freedom rating fell from 100 to 62, even below 2000. In 2015, Turkey dropped 21 steps in a year in the Law-Power Index, which was drafted by the World Justice Project, to the 80th place in 102 countries. The joy and lack of law we've been experiencing lately shows that we're going to lose more altitude in global comparisons. Dear lawmakers, without law, there's no trust, there's no investment, there's no business. For him, law is bread, law is over, law is business. He'll turn around, he'll come back one day. Today, the law and the Constitution, which are meant to be destroyed, to be torn out of the country, will be needed one day. (HPP) So it's up to all of us to protect and protect law and judgment from the attacks of despots. Dear lawmakers, we've seen the best of lawlessness and pleasure in the fight against separatist terrorism, which is the most flammable problem in this country. Let the mothers not weep. The process, which was started in Oslo under the supervision of other countries, did not leave us crying in the country. When terrorists piled guns and bombs on cities, the governors and police chiefs were told not to touch them. Security forces' demands have been ignored. The result is that over 300 victims since last July, terrorists who have been in the mountains for 14 years are now in the city centers. Let's be very clear, in the history of the Republic of Turkey for ninety-three years, he has not seen such negligence, deception, and regret. (HPP's applause) The gauntlet has been a sign of AKP governments. Everyone has deceived them. Yesterday, we did not give them what they wanted? The partners they called "driver" and "terror organization" were today. Dear lawmakers, no one can say we've been cheated and get away with it. It is clear that a series of crimes have been committed, leading from neglect to aiding and abetting criminal organizations. Those who commit these crimes will eventually be brought to justice and justice. Our martyrs and those who have lost their lives will be questioned. Dear lawmakers, tensions and dualism in our institutional structure have created a system crisis in our country today. Our citizens are confused who to look after, and the businessman doesn't know who to tell or who to listen to. Mr. Prime Minister says he'll convene the Economic and Social Council, and the palace says he'll establish his own economic council immediately. Now the businessmen are trying to figure out which council to enter. Between June 7th and November 1st, you asked the nation to vote by disparaging coalitions. It's been a hundred and thirty days since the November 1st election. While the second bomb went off in the heart of Ankara, there was no appointed police chief of the city. Yesterday, you made an appointment for this office again. Many key points of economic bureaucracy are still managed by power of attorney. You haven't appointed an Undersecretary of Treasury in over a year and a half. You'll think you've established a coalition government, Mr. Prime Minister, who can't you get along with? You've become a government that cannot appoint a bureaucrat. You couldn't even keep up with your signature under the appointment order that limited the power of attorney to three months. Appointed advisers of the 5tepepe are constantly adjusting to your government. I thought you said the chosen were better than the appointed. For years, you've told the citizens bureaucratic oligarshi stories, don't you have anything to say to the bureaucratic oligarch of the palace, which has made its way to your government? [[The voices, applause from CHP rows]] I warn the government that in April you will appoint president of the Central Bank. The appointment to this office is unlike any other. If you allow this appointment to turn into a crisis, you'll pay dearly for it. With the laws you've passed, you'll pass the interest lobby once again, which you've denied by exclusion of taxes. Those who stack dollars in crates and boxes will pray for you, but the curse of the nation will haunt you both in this world and in the next. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, our relations with close and distant neighbors are the third place of vulnerability. There are zero problems with neighbors. By that, we have no problems. In foreign politics, it's a rule that friends, alliances and interests are needed to overcome problems. For a long time, however, our country has been lonely, as you call it. Currently, Turkey does not have ambassadors in the five-nation capitals in its region. So, what happened to Turkey, which is respected in its region and all over the world, that's where it's come to this point in every conflict? It all started on 17 December 2010, dear MPs. The riot wave, which began with the burning of Muhammad Buazizi, the traveling salesman in Tunisia, swept through the entire Arab geography. Governments were overthrown in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya. In Libya, the AKP, who opposed Gaddafi's overthrow and later contributed to the fall of Gaddafi, made Assad his brother Esed. It was not enough, it was a bloody knife with Egypt. In those days, the foreign minister of the era, today's Prime Minister, was summing up the changing foreign policy. We will now close the 100-year-old parentheses. The goal was to rehabilitate Ottomans in Middle Eastern geography, a parentheses that should be closed to the Republic of Turkey. His name and godfather, former CIA chief Graham Fuller, was now taking his place in the new Turkish history scene. New Turkey would be the founding actor in the balance of power in the Middle East, and the bird would not fly in the region without being asked. Above all, the idea that it was separated from history, sociology, politics, and above all, it poured gasoline into the fire in Syria. The jihadists from all over the world came to Turkey, our Syrian border was riddled with holes, perforated. In Hatay, in Gaziantep, in Adana, in Urbana, all the world's intelligence organizations began to roar. Turkey became both an actor and a victim of a dirty custody war. In those days, we warned the AKP, saying that our borders were coming to Peshawar, that the fire in Syria would not be there, that it would spread to us. The Prime Minister of the period returned. He said, "I will pray in Damascus, in Emevi Mosque." Damascus could not pray, but the courtyard of mosques in 81 districts of Turkey was filled with Syrian refugees. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In the Middle East, a bird can't fly without my knowledge. We've come from Turkey to Turkey, where it can't fly a plane in Syria. Now, in Syria, we hope to benefit from the wings of Saudi Arabia. The battle of power of attorney in Syria has now spread to Surah, Cizre, Şırnak. Bombs have been detonated all over the country in Reyhanlı, Suruç, Ankara, İstanbul. We've lost hundreds of lives. What Mr. Davutoglu called the angry children, ISIS invaded our Musul consulate, took our diplomats hostage. Not only did we lose our diplomatic missions, but for the first time in the history of the republic of 903 years, we lost a homeland. One night, Solomon's Shah Temple was taken back under the supervision of the terrorist PYD, and again moved into the territory of the terrorist PYD. For this reason, the head of the PYD was brought to Turkey, where joint operations centres were established. E, when you did this, your model partner, the United States of America, who you call a terrorist organization, has already taken the PYD off the list. Now you're trying to explain to our model partner that the terrorist leader is a terrorist who hung up his posters in Russia, but you can't. We are at the brink of war with Russia, our relations with Iran are tense, we cannot agree with Iraq, we are at war with Syria, our relations with the United States are lemons. Our north neighbor is now our south neighbor. Russia is trying to use Syrian immigrants as hybrid warfare weapons against us and all of Europe. We spent nine billion dollars to accommodate nearly three million Syrians who came to our country. The Aegean Sea is a scene of great human drama, and it's still happening. To find a solution to this problem, the EU is peaking on the summit. Mr. Davutoglu negotiates these issues in Europe, but Mr. President Turkey speaks of the Prime Minister as if he were a palace collector who went to the European Union to get 3 billion euros. (HPP) This saddens me as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. It seems, Mr. President, that in 2003, the U.S. saw these talks as a horse negotiation in exchange for the invasion of Iraq, using the territory of Turkey. This approach should not cause Turkey's reforms in democracy, freedoms and other areas to be postponed or pushed away from EU criteria. On the contrary, the existing conjunctural should be read as an opportunity for Turkey to strengthen its anchor. Congressmans, there are two countries who have lost in this war; one is Syria, the other is Turkey. The war in Syria is now a problem for Turkey. Turkey is experiencing one of the most troubled, profound crises in its history. The wrong account returned from Damascus. Dear lawmakers, you can avoid your responsibilities, but you can't avoid the consequences of avoiding your responsibilities. My advice to the government is to get him out of the strategic depth pit where he's sinking. Give us a hand, we'll help you. We are lovers of this land, ready to do anything for the good of Turkey. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Now, hold on to the principle of peace in the land, peace in the world, and peace in the land of Gazi Mustafa Kemal. In this framework, the lack of conflict in Syria is an opportunity. Help turn this into a permanent truce. Don't compromise our strategic interests, but don't pour gasoline into the fire. Try to reduce the number of our enemies, and try to increase our friends, if possible. Otherwise, Turkey, in its polarized form, will be the target of any dirty intervention from the outside, do not allow it. Dear lawmakers, the fourth fault line is the economy, where tensions are extraordinary. In addition to the world-changing conjunctive, tensions in our external relations, social and institutional structure have created a serious distrust in our economy. In February, the Economic Trust Index saw its historical depths. The economy model, which was carried by the AKP, is now blocked. This strategy is no longer working, not by increasing income, but by dipping the citizen into debt, to expand the economy. This model, creating a virtual sense of prosperity in the world when money is abundant and cheap, has left families, companies, high debts, unemployment, and bankruptcy when the weather breaks out. Today, there are serious problems in the economy, especially in four areas. The economy isn't growing, the citizens' income isn't increasing, the currency balance is failing, the injustice is increasing in the distribution of income and wealth, and the finance policy is not as disciplined as it seems, but it's collecting covered risks. Turkey's need for a new division strategy is increasing day by day. Dear lawmakers, I've become a master of the AKP. The more I say, the less I've grown. Growth during the caliphic and mastery period has declined to 3.3 percent. The income of the citizen is no longer increasing. In 2015, the income per person went down to 2007, making $9.286. Citizen's income fell nine years ago. The AKP, on the other hand, promised each citizen $14,000 in 2015 before the 2011 elections. The difference between what's promised and what's happening is $4,714, guys. You owe each of our citizens $4,714. Where'd all this money go, guys? Did you say we'd do it? You even showed mercy to the famous Teyyo Pehlivan in shooting. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Members of parliament, three years of medium-term programme targets based on this budget are unrealistic. In 2016, the economy will grow by 4.5 percent. However, additional risks are constantly increasing over growth. Just a moment ago, Mr. Babacan here will be 4 percent about the 2015 growth, and as the world grew this big, he said we grew up this big. Mr. Babacan, I'd like you to look at the agricultural sector's contribution there. There's a tremendously high contribution to agriculture in the world's affordable conjuncture, but agriculture in 2016 will not contribute to growth. Turkey's geography faces the biggest drought threat of the past nine hundred years. On the other hand, it seems that the effects of the crisis with Russia will be greater than expected. In January alone, exports to Russia dropped 66 per cent. Tourism isn't good either. In Antalya, the capital of tourism, sector representatives are crying blood. I'm afraid the 2016 growth goal will be very difficult to achieve, but on the other hand, in this medium-term program that you've brought in, the targets are very unprovoked. Dear lawmakers, you say the income per person will be $10,659 in the year 2018, when the programme ends, three years from now. Friends, do you know how much per person is in 2008? $10,444. We're going little by little, and we're only getting to the income level from ten years ago at 2018. You'd be ashamed to put that as a target, my friends. Dear lawmakers, another fault line of existing neoliberal policies is on the external balance of the economy, the balance of currency. From 1950 to 2002, Turkey was ruled by 40 different governments. During this period of governments, Turkey's average growth rate was 4.8 per cent. During the same period, the rate of current income was only 1 per cent. During the AKP, Turkey's average growth rate increased by 4.7 per cent, while the current deficit's rate of national income increased by 5.3 per cent. During the AKP, Turkey was able to grow up to be much more in debt and sell the republic's works to foreigners. Each citizen owes a debt to the global interest lobby. I'd like to bring to your attention the following point in the international investment position of the Turkish Republic's Central Bank. Turkey's total foreign currency obligation to the outside world was $148 billion in 2002, and in 2015 the figure jumped to 602 billion. The AKP has increased the country's foreign currency obligations four times, and its national income rate has increased from 64 per cent to 83 per cent. So if you look at it this way, we've just reduced debt from 75 per cent to 30 per cent. The story seems very different. This debt is a valuable friend of Mehmet. Mehmet, Ayþe, you, me, all companies and the state who work in the field. The AKP paradigm, which says, "As long as it is closed with debt, there is no problem." The AKP paradigm has brought us to this day. Look, dear lawmakers, I have an official document showing how the AKP is trying to inflate the economy with its son's money. This is a Prime Minister's decree, published in the Official Gazette on June 16, 2009. Under this decree is the signature of today's Foreign Minister, today's Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. With this decree, the AKP allows non-fashionable companies to borrow from foreign currency. Here, with this, you quickly broke the currency balance sheet of the companies. The net currency debt of companies with 67 billion dollars in 2009, when this decision was published, increased to $184 billion in 2015. Turkey is among the top five economies in the world that are borrowing companies with foreign currency. That makes you one of the five most fragile economies in the world today. Today, companies with Turkish liras and dollars in debt can't pay off their debts as Turkish liras go down, and the risk of courtship is hanging over the economy like the sword of Damocles. Not only outside debts, but inside, the debt of families, corporations has increased rapidly. Let me remind you of a motto of our tradesman, who you forget, who struggles with hardship, who thinks it's a favor, and then it'll be asked to hold the debt, and then it'll be asked, don't be offended. On the good days, it won't be remembered, but when the mill's water runs low, companies have trouble paying the debt, bankruptcy begins. Parents lose the deed to the mortgage, the registration of the car to the banks. Under all this mayhem, the poorest parts of society remain. Look, we don't want to give out company names here, but there have been serious bankruptcy and layoffs in various sectors. I've already told you about the problems with tourism. Demands to postpone bankruptcy in food and textile sectors are coming up. Last year, it increased by 33 per cent of what banks couldn't collect to 47 billion Turkish liras. This is the highest increase since the 2009 crisis. The debt is 70 billion Turkish liras, which the citizens cannot pay, along with the unrefundable debt in the assets management companies, with 70 quadrillion liras in old money. All these numbers clearly indicate that the citizen had difficulty paying off his debt. Not only did the AKP upset Turkey's balance of foreign currency, but it also failed to isolate its reserve for bad days. The net currency reserve in the central bank vault is only $26.2 billion as of March 7, 2016, net reserves are not enough for our two-month imports. At this rate, we'll be in the arms of the interest lobby in no time. On the other hand, the Republic's $57 billion public presence has been sold in your time. If this money didn't break into the Federal Reserve vault, where did it go? Looks like all this money's in the way. Members of the law, the dissertation that rides on the hand descends. Look, we saw this last year. In 2015, the current was reduced from 42.5 billion dollars to $32 billion. You say that with pride. This was largely caused by a decline in international commodity prices. However, we were unable to close the falling current with known source, visible financing pens. Cari was down 11 billion dollars from an open year ago, but the source was down $31 billion. This shows that the need for outside markets to provide us with funding has slowed down much faster than the current recession. In 2015, an unspecified amount of $9 billion 700 million came into the country. This is the highest source of money recorded in one year in the entire Republic period, my friends. But at the record level, the anonymous cash intake wasn't enough to cover the current deficit. In 2015, $11 billion 800 million was spent on currency in the state's vault. This is the highest reservoir meltdown since the 2001 crisis in a single year. In 2015, the balance of payments was fixed by eating from the ready. This is not a sustainable situation, it must be taken immediately. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, I can't help but express here that in recent years, unrecognisable money inputs that have grown to extraordinary sizes can seriously cause Turkey a headache in the future. The issue is too serious to pass on the boxes in the Central Bank reports. In the last twenty-two years from 1980 to 2002, the unknown source of money entering Turkey is zero, friends, zero, you haven't heard wrong. Between 2003 and 2015, an unaccounted source of money entered the country in the AKP's power reached 29.4 billion dollars, almost one-third of which arrived in 2015. Such a picture does not exist in Brazil, or South Africa, from similar economies. In order for Turkey's reputation to fail, our Parliament must focus on this issue. Valuable lawmakers are the second major vulnerability point in the Turkish economy, the weakened production base and increased import dependency. In Turkey, industry is melting, agriculture is losing blood, producers from all sectors are in great trouble. When money was abundant and cheap, the AKP was unable to manage global capital movements and watched our competitiveness melt. In just one last year, Turkey has fallen six steps from the global competitiveness index to the 51st. The country's industrial base is melting, and our industrialists have become mall workers or builders, and foreign debt from the outside has been transferred to these sectors. The number of shopping malls, 53 in 2002, rose to 361 today. Our country has turned into a full mall economy. The number of shopping malls in Istanbul alone is 103. This is more than that when you gather the AVMs in London, Berlin and Paris. Now, even our great industrialists are complaining. These wrong choices have also blocked the growth of efficiency in the economy, and total factor efficiency is even below 2007. While the world took its place in the Fourth Industrial Revolution, Turkey is stuck with the mall and the construction economy. Today, the world talks about new and groundbreaking technologies, such as artificial intelligence, robotics, three-dimensional printers, nanotechnology, biotechnology, and the current government can only reveal the production of automobiles belonging to the Second Industrial Revolution, but this is also a trick. They call it a local car. They put a fake prototype in front of the nation. I'm afraid with this visionlessness and cunning, Turkey will also miss the Fourth Industrial Revolution. The AKP did not only finish agriculture in the industrial area, but also in the country where the agricultural revolution took place. The farmer was unable to plant 2 Thracian-sized farmland during the AKP period, and we even imported hay during this ruling period. Our feeders are miserable, unable to make money; our citizens are miserable, unable to buy meat. The market knows everything right. At the end of the day, the meat was planted, but a kilo of meat is still 35 to 40 liras in the market. Again, in Thracia, where the finest milk is produced these days, touch the milk makers, and you will hear a thousand ahs. Industrialists are pricing the gallon of milk under the price set by the Milk Council 20 months ago. The VAT from the bait has been downloaded, we said the full milk producer will take a breather, and this time the feed producers have given a raise as much as the VAT discount, citing the increases in their costs. The VAT discount on the bait went into the feed manufacturer's pocket, not the milk manufacturer's. The price of food didn't go down, the price of milk went down, the milkmaker became a victim. Again, you're trying to get the narrowest-income forest peasant out of the woods with the regulations you've taken out. Don't victimize this section of people who don't even have the right to retire properly. Dear lawmakers, another fault line that will cause huge problems in the economy is the distribution of damaged wealth and income; it is also a global problem. If you raise the wealth of 3 billion, 600 million people around the world below, it can't reach the wealth of 62 of the richest. Neoliberal policies that made the rich richer opened the door to a major injustice in the world over the last 30 years, but the corruption in the wealth distribution in the countries in which money was earned, money was pursued by coupon fields, privatisation was pursued, corruption was left unpunished, and sergeant capitalism was applied. One of the countries where this is happening is our country. As a matter of fact, according to the Global Fortune Report, Turkey and Turkey are side by side with Russia, where the distribution of wealth after Russia is most corrupt. In 2002, 1 per cent of the richest in Turkey had 39 per cent of the total national wealth, while 2014 had 54 per cent of the national wealth. Recently, Forbes magazine has announced billionaire lists, interesting results. Japan, whose national income is six times ours, has less dollar billionaires than Turkey; Turkey has 30 dollar billionaires, Japan 27. On the other hand, Turkey is the third most unfairly distributed economy in OECD member states. Lawmakers also threaten growing injustices in the distribution of wealth and income. Guys, remember, when we were kids playing marbles, the game was over when the marbles were collected in one hand. And when national wealth is collected in one hand, the game is over, so growth slows down, stops. In order for the game to last, this fortune must be reshared in some way. Now, this argument is happening all over the world. In our country and outside, great businessmen have begun to express the necessity of resharing. In the AKP period, the valued lawmakers won interest lobby when tails came, and the nation lost when heads came; land rants peaked; public goods were sold for tributes; those who did not lower interest lobby from their mouths were burdened with taxes and public increases when they made arrangements to reduce the tax burden of the interest lobby. This period, as soon as the House opens, the first job of power was to arrange for the interest lobby to reduce its tax burden, but the same government cannot for some reason reduce its taxes on the minimum wage of $1,300. Therefore, starting in October, minimum wage will be reduced from $1,300 to $1,230. Now, let's see who paid for this famous interest lobby. Mr. Secretary just told me that interest payments are GDP. Now, you don't pay the interest lobby for illegal domestics, you do it with dollars. I'll try to tell you what the numbers are with the dollar. Over the past 28 years from 1975 to 2002, interest payments from the state budget are 251 billion dollars, which is 28 years, if you divide it, an average of $9 billion a year. During the AKP period, from 2003 to 2015, interest lobbyes were paid 409 billion dollars, so 409 billion dollars in 12 years; 251 billion dollars in 28 years; 409 billion in 12 years. On average, $31.5 billion a year was put in the pocket of the interest lobby. The interest paid in thirteen years has reached 1.6 times the amount in 28 years, and the average annual payment has tripled. The artifact is in the middle, the interest lobby was compromised during the AKP ruling period. Dear lawmakers, there's a fault line in the economy, and it's a public finance. Mr. Bulent Turan just gave a speech here, and specifically, he talked about how well the public finances have improved, while also referring to social security deficits, and he mentioned that social security deficits during our President's time were huge. Now, Mr. Turan, you're saying this, but you're not looking at the numbers, so here's the problem. In 1999 -- at that time, Mr. President was General Director of Social Insurance, and I was Director General of Economic Planning in the State Planning Agency -- the transfers from the budget to cover the deficits of social security institutions were $2,750 million, and the transfer in 2015 to cover social security deficits was 80 billion $629 million. (CHP) Now I'm asking: is it 2 billion or 80 billion? You're going to say, "This has been inflation, so let's not look at it like this, let's look at it as a percentage of national income. Let's look at it as a proportion of the transfers from the budget to social security institutions in 1999: the non-inflicted rate of domestic revenues in 2015 is 3.5 percent; and the gross domestic product rate of transfers in 2015 is 4.15 per cent.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0136par0324	Well said.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0135par0325	Now, fellas, is it three big or four big? Dear friends, if you have something to say, please look at the numbers. Look, this whole social security thing, this whole social security thing, it's all been audited, all of it has clear reports. No flaws, no irregularities have been dedicated to our president, so you should know that. But let's see what happens when your time is examined. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, now, the recent dominant approach is this: things are going well just by looking at the extra interest in public finances. We say, "The budget has been disciplined." Dear lawmakers, in the last five years' budget, collect non-interested surpluses, think about income and expenditures, 60 percent of the surplus will be destroyed. On the other hand, there's abuse of the years-old backup funding mechanism, and there are cases of escape from court control. It's all just a lack of fiscal discipline. Again, in recent years, the state's spending as part of a number of primary functions such as health, transport, energy has been moved out of the budget by calling it public-private co-operation, and interest-free spending has been shown to be lower. I'm not saying this is a procedure, friends, but you're exploiting it. Look, fellas, I have in my hands a specific section of the Ministry of Development's report on Public-Special Co-operation Applications in the world and Turkey called 2015. I recommend that all of our MPs read this report. I've warned the government many times from this stand, with my press releases, and now it seems that bureaucrats feel the need to warn the government about this time bomb, which is on a ticking clock. Dear lawmakers, there are now a total of 198 projects operating or continuing within the framework of public-private cooperation. These projects are over $115 billion in contract sizes, so we're not talking about small numbers. While these projects were being conducted, the state assured the private sector of a number of demands and financing guarantees -- not enough -- that if the private sector fails to complete the project, the loans were arranged by the state to take over. Now, the bureaucrat warns, it's harder to find funds in the global system. If you do not find alternative financing resources for these projects outside the banks, you will be forced to do so. He says, "Not only is it not enough, note the guarantees and loans that you have given to keep the budget intact." Our bankers are uncomfortable with it, too. If you put more burdens on the banking system than you can carry with these projects, we stay together. They warn the government. Speaking here earlier, the speaker said that these big projects could be carried out. Dear friends, let me make it clear that you are increasingly hard to find funds in the world, and these projects are becoming increasingly troubled. It seems right now that you're pressuring local banks, especially public banks. Therefore, I am no longer able to agree with the Bank. All these warnings indicate that the tribulation is growing. Hidden in public balance, veiled obligations have been hidden under the carpet so far, but now there are smells under the carpet. I've seen these many times before: In 2013, I submitted a question proposal for Mr. Minister Bülli Yıldırım to answer the Gebze-Orhangazi-Izmir Highway and Izmit Bay Pass -- January 24, 2013. I haven't been able to answer my question motion until today. This time, under the Information Act, I applied to the Ministry as a citizen, and I didn't get an answer. So I applied twice to the Prime Ministerial Information Evaluation Board, but I was not able to answer my questions again. Those who did not lower the will of the nation did not answer, neither the nation nor the nation's deputy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, from here, I'm asking the Minister and the government: How much will a car from Istanbul to İzmir pay when it uses the route and the bridge? As part of this project, how many vehicles and how much did the public administration contractor guarantee the firm? How much foreign financing did the contractor use under the project? Why did you make changes to the debt law after you made the tender for this project so that debt can be taken over by the state? Isn't changing the rules in favor of the company after the tender a misdemeanor?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0137par0337	Are you against this project, why?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0135par0338	Well, I'm not against it, but if this is being done by defamation of the tender, I'm willing to pay for it.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0137par0339	Tell me about the benefits of the project.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0135par0340	Dear lawmakers, we're in a time when the global conjunctura changes every day and is shaken by storms. Governments and borders are breaking down in our region, geopolitical risks are getting heavier every day. The geopolitical architecture of the world is at a new crossroads. We've got the new share wars right here. Millions of desperate people began to migrate from Afghanistan to North Africa. The immigration and refugee crisis became the world's number one problem. Terrorism is now a global threat, and no country is immune to it. On the other hand, the global capitalist system is experiencing one of its longest recessions. The central banks print trillions of dollars, but it doesn't have any effect. The burden of the crisis rests on state treasures. America, the central center of the crisis, is recovering relatively, but it's bad news for high economies that need foreign financing. Growth in developing and rising economies, particularly China, is slowing down. Economic dissatisfactions are also beginning to affect global politics. While the central parties are failing, populist radical parties are getting bonuses. In short, we are in the days when everything that is solid, as Karl Marx puts it, evaporates and flies. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The global system is looking for a new balance. So, in a critical intersection like this, can our social life, our institutional structure, our relations with the neighbors, and the fragility of the economy lift that weight? I have serious concerns. To get out of here, Turkey needs a new political understanding, a new growth, a model of division. The address for which this need will be discussed, negotiated and met is the political institution. The political institution must respond to the need of the nation. In this framework, the language of hatred dominated in the country must no longer be given up on polarisation politics. We need to put aside the debates on the presidential system that raises political uncertainty and discuss arrangements to strengthen the parliamentary system. Let us consider measures that will restore law and justice to this country. So let's add provisions that will strengthen the independence of the judiciary to the 60 Constitutions that all parties agree on. Let's get them through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey fast. Let's expand our freedom zones. Let's move on to first-class democracy. Let's clear the laws that limit democracy and freedoms from the coup era or later brought in. No one in this country should be excluded or considered privileged because of their identity. Let's create a new public tender law in EU standards that suits this country. Let's adopt a political ethics law that will give politicians and politics credit in the country. Let's discuss structural reforms that will boost our country's international competition power and quickly correct what's been done and broken. Let's talk about measures that will increase the economic needs of productive investments, efficiency and qualified employment. Let's discuss how we can turn Turkey into an economy that produces and exports high-tech products. Let us strive to raise members of the knowledge society. Let's do what we need to do to make the level of education of the labor force fit the economy's needs. Let's talk about a new model of sharing that will help ensure a more fair and balanced distribution of national wealth and speed up growth. In the new model, let's discuss how we're going to get you a fair share before we even get to the revenue-making stage. Let's talk about how we file injustices after income. Let's review the conditions and right-based social support that will provide an equal opportunity for every citizen of the Republic of Turkey. Let us consider measures to strengthen organisation in working life to ensure the safety of the labour force in this country and to share the income properly. As a political institution, let's discuss a tax reform that will be taxed by many winners, including a fortune tax, and a Rant tax. Let's end the period of creating rich with public hands. Let's discuss how we can benefit from the EU anchor for stability and trust. If politics starts to discuss them and to make reforms, the air changes rapidly in the country, Turkey begins to reproduce and become rich. However, valuable lawmakers are asked to impose a presidential system on Turkey at a time when vulnerability is increasing in all areas, while outside, the risk of a new economic crisis remains serious. This effort is now pushing all kinds of logic. Our country is almost driven by a conscious scenario, one step at a time into a major crisis. I regret to inform you that these two parties under the roof are under a great deal of custody. Both the government and the ruling group are in the custody of the palace, unable to exercise or exercise the authority the nation has given them. The palace bureaucrats are setting up what the nation chooses. HDP, under the guardianship of Imralı and Kandil. It creates deep despair and anxiety in society. The political institution and parliament are unable to respond to the public's concerns. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we owe peace and security to every citizen in this country, and we must. When our citizens look at Ankara, there is a Parliament capable of using my power of attorney who knows their problems. The representatives of the nation must get rid of all custody and take care of the people's rights, laws, futures. It's a historical duty and responsibility for all of us.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0138par0349	Pick it up, Mr. Oztrak, in a minute.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0135par0350	I am, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0138par0351	Please... Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0135par0353	Dear lawmakers say that we will vote against the 2016 Budget Law Bill, which is not far from responding to the needs of the nation, with the classicized, allelelusul budget-making approach of the AKP, and despite everything, I wish this budget to our country's best. As I finish, the General Assembly welcomes you and the citizens who are watching us at the head of their television.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0138par0356	Thank you, Mr. Oztrak.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0139par0357	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0138par0358	Mr. Idris, please.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0139par0359	Mr. Orator has publicly assaulted our group during his speech, accusing them of being under Imran and Kandil custody, and I will answer.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0138par0360	Two minutes... Please don't let us challenge a new taunt. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0140par0365	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Here, we've expressed over and over again where the HDP received its power, I think, because it's not understood enough, let's rephrase it. Despite all attacks against him, the HDP is a political party that has been subjected to lynching attacks on Turkey's election efforts in 500 centers, despite being burned down and destroyed by its headquarters, with the power from the public to come here and take its legitimacy from the will of the people. Your Honor, we find it unacceptable that the speaker of the Republican People's Party make a claim here and then go back to his seat. We, in particular, have repeatedly criticised the current position of the Republican People's Party in this chaos today. You're looking to legitimize these inconsistencies within the HDP in the midst of major discrepancies. Look, you let the AKP build its own system and Erdogan take this country to the early elections for thirty-seven days while the people's will was struck on June 7th, when the lock was on the door of this Parliament. Likewise, you have described the process after June 7th as a coup, but so far you have not demonstrated one single democratic activism, one single democratic event against this coup; you have not stepped out of a political position, which has been added to all the war policies run by the AKP. Here, by disseminating the conscientious MPs within the CHP and, in particular, the delegations that oppose these war policies, the institutional position of CHP's... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that the AKP is part of the concept of coup and war...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0141par0372	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0140par0373	I leave it to our people to appreciate who's under custody. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0141par0376	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0142par0377	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0141par0378	Mr. Bostanci, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0142par0379	Towards the end of his remarks, the speaker stated that our party is under the guardianship of one person. This is an open taunt, I want a promise.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0141par0380	Here you go. Two minutes, sir. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0142par0384	Mr. President, dear friends, there were a lot of things to be collected under the title of Mr. Faik's speech. If he hadn't said the last words, I wouldn't have left my seat for the government to answer them, but you're under guardianship for the party group. First of all, let me explain why I made a promise. Dear friends, in this country, this nation does not give any man power over dictatorship, authority. This nation is a nation that has fought the Istrillal War, and in 1950, the challenger has, in some way, demonstrated its will, a nation that has held its will every semester. You are under the shadow of one person, a political delegation that has been in power for 14 years. It is unjust to say that you are under the shadow of one person. The person you call a person, the one you call a person, the one you call a person, the one who sits in the ashtray, is the nation where he takes his power, just like the AK PARTY. (AK PARTY) Neither the President nor the EC PARTY are looking at the nation, the will of the people they represent. That's what you're missing, dear friends. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0143par0388	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0144par0389	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0143par0390	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0144par0391	Both when Mr. Baluken used the podium for the answer, and Mr. Vice President of the Party of the Republic, they made a mockery of the People's Party. We'd like to exercise our right to answer.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0143par0392	Two minutes, please, sir. Let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0144par0395	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, as the Republican People's Party, we have been in the presence of the High Assembly for 12 days with talks that have been highly involved, constructive, guiding, leading the public agenda during the talks. Today, we've heard from Mr. Vice President of the Justice and Development Party. Of course, in his speech, we had a lot of answers to give under normal circumstances. However, Mr. President was in the hall when a young group of vice presidents spoke. He gave himself a round of applause from his own party, perhaps with the excitement of the Prime Minister's watching him, words that he didn't have energy for, and we didn't even answer him. But at this point, after a budget review of such content, the sensitivity of the Justice and Development Party to this custody issue doesn't really surprise or surprise. But Mr. Bulent Turan had not surprised us and confirmed our claims when he first expressed satisfaction with the evacuations of Erdem Gül and Can Dündar, and criticised the Constitutional Court with a 180-degree turn from the palace. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On the other hand, we strongly deny that the People's Democratic Party criticises our party's institutional approach and separates some of the MPs. The Republican People's Party's institutional identity, first of all, defines terrorism as a crime of humanity, no matter who it comes from or what reason it comes from.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0145par0401	Does it define state terror?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0144par0402	He also criticises a number of sanctions and human rights violations at the point of counter-terrorism while fighting terrorism and outside the borders of the state of law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] No one here has the right to criticize the institutional identity of the Republican People's Party in such a way, and it is not the right to do so. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0146par0407	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0147par0408	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0146par0409	Here you are, Mr. Idris.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0147par0410	According to the Civil Charter of 60, I have a request for a statement from my place.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0146par0411	All right, all right. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0147par0415	Mr. President, I now have the transcripts of the previous session. In particular, there are certain statements made to the transcripts of the Deputy Group Chairman of the AKP, Mr. Bulent Turan. There are some statements that are not possible to accept. Not the words that are in accordance with Parliament's general reputation or that are in harmony with the framework of language and style that the Civil Code and Constitution have established, which should be used here. I'd like to read these, if I may. I have a list in my hand during his speech. See, sometimes there's a president who plays the reed, sometimes goes to Kandil. He says that the general president and his surroundings are 122 people who are invited to go out to the street, and in this invitation to go out, Mr. President says we're calling for the President and us to go out on the street and kill Yasin Börür.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0148par0418	It's true.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0147par0419	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0149par0420	It was a minute. Finally, please wrap it up, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0147par0422	Mr. President, we have an important matter to state as Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0149par0423	Okay, that's why I gave it to him. One more minute, please finish.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0147par0425	He says we're sending messages in the form of "Go up the street and kill the Kurds." Now, I would like to address this group's deputy president here, summing up as much as possible because my time is short: If he comes and proves that this is the direction from this stand, that our president or any member of the group is sending a message like this, then I will resign as Vice President of the HDP Group. But if he doesn't prove it, we, the People's Democratic Party, are inviting him to resign and expressing that we define him with political immorality and mufterity because of his low-level slander. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0150par0429	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0151par0430	Mr. Bulent...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0150par0431	Mr. President, as you've heard, both groups of vice presidents have teased me with my name. I'd like to answer that.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0151par0432	Let's not afford another tease, please. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0152par0434	You get angry when you say liar.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0153par0437	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. We're at the end of our budget. I don't care about polemics, I'll say it again.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0154par0439	That's why you talk like that!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0155par0440	Shame, shame! You're the president of the group!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0153par0441	You've said everything since 13 days, you've done all kinds of slanders, all kinds of polemics, and you've used statements to our president that I couldn't get us to say. What's wrong with us telling you something with documents?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0155par0442	Did we say that Davutoglu texted and said, "Kill Kurds." Did we say that?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0153par0443	Mr. Deputy President, I'm not going to learn political morality from you. This is the first one.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0155par0445	Prove it to us!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0156par0446	Prove it!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0157par0447	Show me, show me, show me that message! Where's the explanation?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0158par0448	Let's hear it calmly, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0159par0449	Secondly, in my speech, I say...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0157par0450	Where's the explanation?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0159par0451	I'll give you the file. I'm saying: ACK, HDP, DEP -- you already have a lot of names -- they all have a curfew call, they all have a date, a signature, a name, if you want me to give it to you.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0160par0453	Do you have a message for the Selahattin Demirtaş?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0159par0454	Who's to say it wasn't your invitation so far? This is the first one.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0161par0455	Where did he say to kill the children? Where did he say to kill the children?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0162par0456	Sir, please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0159par0457	If you are sincere in this matter, you will come out and condemn all calls made by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and HDP (HDP) as well as by other names.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0163par0458	You will prove your claim! Is this the Inquisition?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0164par0459	Shame, shame, shame!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0159par0460	We have no business with the street, we have business here.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0165par0462	Liar!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0159par0463	Dear friends, another matter. I'll give you this file.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0165par0464	What file?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0166par0465	Not a file, not a file! Prove your claim, prove your claim, and I'll resign. Or you quit!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0159par0466	Another thing: Just now, Mr. Free, our esteemed group president, has expressed a change in our view of the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0166par0467	Shame!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0167par0468	You're all so red.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0159par0469	I explained what I said.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0166par0470	You can't lie so publicly, you can't slander me!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0159par0471	In fact, even though they understand, they think of walking from here as a political field for themselves. There's no bread for you here.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0168par0472	Lying has its manners.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0159par0473	When I was a child, I knew Recep Erdogan, and walked in his way, and I have nothing to fear. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Second: On the first day, I said with my legal identity: "No matter who it is, no matter what it is, it is the basis of an open trial. I say it again.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0169par0476	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0159par0477	I have the same speech: however, espionage, stopping MIT trucks is a major crime all over the world. Wait for the local court's verdict. I'm saying the same thing.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0170par0478	I welcomed you with joy. You say.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0159par0479	What's going on, what's not coming back? It's all in the middle. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0171par0482	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0172par0483	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit02spe0171par0484	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0173par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the final talks on the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Act. The commission is here. The government is here.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0174par0009	Mr. President, is there a problem with the President's health? I'm curious.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0173par0010	Congressmans, since the President of Ukraine was here today, he had a program with him. So, hopefully, we'll all try to manage the next process with your support. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In his favour, he came to İzmir MP Ibrahim Mustafa Turhan. Mr. Turhan, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0175par0016	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with my sincerest feelings, with my respect. I'm going to make a statement here in favour of our budget by confirming my earlier positive vote on the 2016 Central Management Budget Bill in the Plan and Budget Commission. Dear lawmakers, it is customary in budget talks, the government's economic policies are generally evaluated. This assessment was often done here. But, of course, there have been criticisms from time to time that taking a year from the past and comparing it to a single year today is not economically right, not statistically correct. What should we do? Then you have to compare the past with the long term of the present. So, if you'll excuse me, I'll start with a conversation in this frame. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, economic performance is first and foremost business. So first, let's look at a common income -- what happened in the thirteen years before the power of the EC PARTY, and what happened in the thirteen years that the EC PARTY was in power. Now, in 1990, according to current currencies, our national income was $150 billion, $700,000, and in 2002 -- 13 years later -- went up to $223.5 billion. So in 13 years, an average increase of 3.4 per cent year-on-year has increased by 83 per cent in national revenues. What happened when the EC PARTY was in power? That's a 3.4 year increase of 9.95. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The total increase of 83 per cent is 243 per cent, dear friends. So, here's thirteen years; here's thirteen years! That's the difference between thirteen years of the AK PARTY and thirteen years without the AK PARTY. Now, there may be an objection: "There have been some changes in the dollar system at this time. " So this dollar changes have a positive-negative effect, as well. All right, let's look at the buying power parity, so let's put aside the change in dollars. At that time, the increase in the 13 years before the EC PARTY totals 4.75 per cent per year; the annual increase in the EC PARTY rate is 6.67 per cent. So we're folding it again with 1.5. Look, economic growth is important in closing the income difference between developing or underdeveloped countries. So we're trying to make up for the difference between us and the developed countries of the world and trying to grow fast. What about it? This is also a beautiful indicator -- a criterion adopted by the World Bank -- that shows the difference between Turkey and the developed world per capita income per capita in Turkey/the United States of America: the 1960s, on average 11 per cent; 1970s, 12.7 per cent; 1980s, on average 9 per cent; 1990s, 10.9 per cent of the average income of the person in the United States; the average year of SHP or CHP is too much in power; for years like this, 10,5 per cent; the average of the MHP is about 10 per cent in power; 10 per cent of the 10 per cent in Turkey; 1 percent of the average income of the population of the person in the United States; 10 per cent of the United States; 1 percent of the United States; 15% of the United States of the United States; the United States of Turkey; and the United States. There's also a claim that things have been getting worse lately, that things have been worse since the crisis in 2008. The average seven-year term between 2008 and 14 is 20.4 percent, dear friends. (AK PARTY) Actually, we're up to 21.5, but there's been some setbacks due to the travel attempt and the December 17th-25 parallel impact. Let no man fear, for by the leave of God, we are able to raise it again. What happened in the labor force area? From this date when the crisis began, from 2008, when one of modern history's deepest economic crises began, we provided 6 million new jobs in seven years to now. So, in other words, we've provided 823 thousand jobs every year. Meanwhile, participation in the labour force has risen from 44.3 per cent to 51.5 per cent. Dear lawmakers, our budget has three major features. First, it's a budget that fulfills all our government's commitments. And when We make a covenant, We fulfill it. We've fulfilled all our commitments to minimum wage, to our pensioners' salaries, to our young people who are going into business for the first time, to social security cuts. The lowest officer's pension has increased 3.3 times, the lowest BUG-KUR tradesman pension has increased 6.8 times, the farmer's pension has increased 13 times. We have fulfilled all of these promises. In addition, we provided an additional $2.5 billion to our farmer by removing the VAT in fertilizer and bait. So how did we do all this, how did we fulfill all of our commitments? It's always said here that the precious Republican People's Party orator, who spoke before me, gave a figure on these interest expenditures, said: "The interest expenditures are paid by dollars, not by national income. No friends, interest is paid by people's taxes, taxes are paid by the nation. In the ten years before 2003, the rate of interest spending was 70 per cent, so you were paying 70 lira for every $100 tax you collected from the citizen; in 1999, you were paying interest; in 1999 you were paying $72.40, and in 2000, 77.10 cents, and in 2001, notice that you were paying $103 in interest in each $100 tax, and in 2002 you were paying $87 out of the budget. So, what happened during the AK PARTY? During the EC PARTI period, only $12 of the $100 tax will be paid as interest in 2016. This is a sign of the government's preference. Who do you prefer? So, of course, when he stopped transferring funds to interest, Ranta, there was an opportunity to fund education, health and infrastructure investments. As we divide 12 per cent into interest, we allocate 16.7 per cent to health, 19.1 per cent to education, 10.5 per cent to infrastructure investments, and I can say with great pride, the valued lawmakers are divided into 16.5 per cent of taxes during 1991-2002, while 19.1% of taxes are divided into education this year. The Czech Republic, Hungary, Spain, Greece, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania, Germany and Italy, which are members of the European Union when the average is taken into consideration, is budgeted, and I am proud to say that Turkey has divided education and health into only these two areas, 1.5 times more than Romania's budget. And that, dear friends, shows how much we care about people, citizens, education, health and infrastructure. Now, of course, it's also important not to compromise financial discipline while we're doing all this, because we're going through a difficult time. It's not understood very well, as far as I can see, I mean, sometimes when opposition speakers are considering it here, I feel like they don't fully understand the difficulty of the time we're in. Look, in the deepest part of 2008, in the deepest part of that global crisis, what was the risk of recession and inflation? More now. How do we know that? For example, oil is below the level of February 2009, the forward indicator of investments is steel below its level in March 2009, and the Baltic Dry Load Index is two times lower than that level. In this period, fiscal discipline is crucial; in 2016, our budget is the budget of fiscal discipline. See, in 2014, in 2015, the budget deficit in developed countries was 4.3 per cent and 3.6 per cent; in developing countries, 2.5 and 2.2, those values were 1.3 and 1.2. And this year, hopefully, our budget is only 1.3 per cent of the national income, more than 1.2 per cent of the interest, a budget where financial discipline is provided. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The strong view of our finance policy, despite all these negative developments, is that Turkey is confident in its future with the highest growth and the best-prepared, comprehensive structural reform agenda in the G20 countries...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0176par0032	Thank you, Mr. Turhan, complete, please.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0175par0033	...to become an undisputed centre of the region and a global actor. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0176par0036	Thank you. Now, it's up to the government. On behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek will speak. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 60 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0177par0042	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and our fellow citizens who are watching us on their screens with love and respect. We're at the end of budget negotiations. First of all, I'd like to thank everyone who's worked on the budget, especially our Finance Minister and his team. I want to thank the President of the Plan and Budget Commission and its esteemed members, again, our ministers, all of our MPs, the valued members of our Parliament, who have contributed to the final draft of the 2016 budget. Our budget has been negotiated at the level of both Parliament and Plan and Budget Commission. Many constructive criticisms, assessments and assessments have been made here. We believe constructive criticism is beneficial and guiding. You can be sure that we will take into account these constructive criticisms as we shape our policies and apply our budget. The budget is the most important policy document explained, and not just statistics, some numerical sizes. Budgets reflect the vision of governments and in general the policy framework. I wish that our budget for 2016, prepared in accordance with our government programme, our development plan and our medium-term programme, would now bring blessings to our country, our nation. Mr. President, we've come before our nation today with a budget that will fund the investments and services that our nation needs, that will provide the basis for all of our election promises, for our structural reforms, and also maintains financial discipline. Although budgets have been made for one year, our budget for 2016 has been drawn up from a long-term perspective, with the EC PARTY governments having a 14th and 64th government budget. In this regard, he is rich in content, and as always, he is realistic. So far, we've successfully implemented 13 budgets. In all the years, except 2009 -- the year of the global crisis -- we've achieved budget goals, even a much stronger performance than the targets. The budget of 2016 includes concrete reflections of our comprehensive reform programme, which will take our country to the top in the international value chain, raise the high income group to the level of countries, and solve the problem of absolute poverty, support our human development. Not only do we maintain fiscal discipline in the 2016 budget, we have prepared this budget as a budget that supports sustainable, high and inclusive growth, which we actually set as the main target in our medium-term programme. In particular, we hope to hit two basic macro-problem areas with this budget. So we're here on a budget that supports inflation and a fall in the current deficit. Dear lawmakers, last week we met with G20 country ministers and heads of the central bank in China. These meetings highlighted the fact that global demand is inadequate, that risks for global growth have increased in low direction, that traditional policy tools have failed, and that in many countries, the field of maneuvering in finance and monetary policy is extremely limited. In many developed countries, in terms of monetary policy, the margin has really narrowed down. We are going through a period when financial expansion, even negative interest, does not produce desired consequences; we are going through a period in developed countries where direct money is being distributed to citizens. As at the beginning of the global crisis, there is also more emphasis on the role of public finance, but we see that many countries do not have much maneuvering in this area. Notice that the G20 Statement of Results recommended that the country use the entire area of policy to support global growth without endangering debt sustainability and price stability. Another strong belief in G20 meetings is that final and permanent growth can only be possible through structural reforms. Each country must prioritize structural reforms, which are best suited to its requirements, which are treating its most critical problems. So, in today's budget speech, I'm going to address the structural reform agenda of our government, but before I mention it, I'd like to express a few more issues about the global economy. The G20 meetings also focused on the fight against the financing of terrorism, geopolitical tensions and refugee issues that also concern our country closely. Mr. President, good lawmakers, in our successful G20 term presidency last year, we brought implementation of reforms, investment and coverage to the world's agenda. As part of the G20 troika, we are pleased to see that China, who took over the term presidency from Turkey, has decided to maintain the fundamental elements of our agenda. In this period, when potential growth has dropped, the global demand has continued its weak course, while global employment growth has been lower to expectations, the implementation of investments, containment and structural reforms has become even more important. In short, the global economy is awaiting a difficult, complex and risky process in the coming period. Speaking on behalf of our group, Mr. Babacan has made assessments of the global economic outlook. I just want to close it down by referring to a few basic risks facing the global economy. The restoration process in the Chinese economy has a particularly big impact on commodity prices. The dissolution of monetary policy among the developed country's central banks is one of the main causes of disarray in the markets. Again, as I've just said, geopolitical risks, terrorism, immigrants, and many other issues arise as major problems ahead of the global economy. Mr. President, good lawmakers, Turkey has risen from low middle income to higher middle income during the time of our governments. We have achieved this success by applying structural reforms and healthy policies. Now, our goal is to bring Turkey into a high income group with new generation reforms. So for the last couple of years, we've created a very comprehensive reform program, a road map, and we've put it into practice. Our reform agenda has three fundamentals. The first is sectoral transformation, micro-level reforms, another is structural macro reforms, and finally the European Union integration process. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, sectoral transformation is essential. At this point, we've determined about 1,250 micro-level measures, which institution is responsible, and we've put these actions on a calendar. In 2016, at this point, we're going to have a huge momentum. With micro-level reforms, Turkey will avoid falling into the middle income trap, ensure efficiency increases, climb up the value chain and increase competitiveness. Of course, not only micro reforms, but structural macro reforms will prepare our country especially for the 4th Industrial Revolution. This is how we will allow us to enter the 4th industrial revolution at the same time as the world and other developed countries. New generation reforms are really very important in this context. We have scheduled these detailed reforms and actions shared by our prime minister, Mr Ahmet Davutoglu, to complete in 2016. We prioritized these reforms under six topics: labour market reform, education reform, public finance and public administration reform, improving investment climate, judicial reform, increased transparency and fighting corruption. We've left about three months behind in our action plan. A total of 46 actions have been completed, transferred to our Grand Assembly, and some of them have been implemented, including 10 of the 20 reforms envisioned in the first three months, 36 of 44 commitments. With those in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with the ongoing talks, the rate of fulfillment reached 82 per cent in reforms, 50 per cent for the first three months. So, we're not just talking, we're implementing this reform program and our commitments. Dear lawmakers, for strong and sustainable growth, of course, we need to increase the efficiency of the total factor, which is why we need to increase the efficiency of the workforce and capital. Our governments will carry out reforms under five main topics that will flexible the labour market and increase the quality of human capital. Of these reforms, the first of these topics, the reform bill on partial-time flexible work and private employment offices has been adopted on the commission and will be implemented in the coming term, hopefully. Again, similarly, in many areas of the world-class training programs, including drawing manpower and severance pay, we will present our reforms to our Parliament soon, and we will carry out these reforms. The goal of these reforms is to increase employment, increase women's participation in the labour force, reduce young unemployment. As the labour market implements its reforms, of course, we've been in consultation with all social partners, and we'll continue to be. The labour market in Turkey is stricter than most countries. Of course, many factors play a role in this. So, the goal of this reform is to limit, reduce, and thus increase employment. Look, one reason for rigidity in the labour market is the lack of partial-time and flexible working models. Our country is relatively low among OECD countries with a partial employment rate of 10.6 per cent. In some countries, it is over 35 percent. With the implementation of the bill that allows flexible work and brings with it temporary employment and remote work rights, I believe that both our young and our women's employment will increase and the level of employment and income in Turkey will increase. In this way, we will be implementing an important reform to use our young population, which is our potential for strong growth in a more efficient way. Of course, we won't be limited to any of that. Among our promises, a year's salary is paid in the case of the first time a young person gets a job at work. This is a very important step, especially at the point of solving the problem of unemployment. At the same time, short-term insurance premiums and general health insurance will be paid by ISKUR during this period. Again, it is a vital step in providing our young people who are starting a business with the exception of income tax for three years. In return for the project, it is also crucial for the start-up capital of our young companies to provide 50,000 liras of unrequited support. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were yesterday's Women's Day. Congratulations again. No country can achieve its goals without effectively using half its population. That's why we care so much about women's participation in the labor force, women's role in business. Women's participation in the labour force has increased by 10 points in Turkey over the past decade. And at this point, Turkey is the best country in developing countries. This is a positive development, but it's inadequate, because women's participation in the labor force is still far below the norms of the European Union. And that is why, in the coming period, we will continue to effectively implement arrangements, incentives, supports that will increase women's participation in the labour force, access to education. In this scope, we have strengthened the maternity leave and rights of working women, increased the mother's maternity leave, provided that she or her father may work part-time, and that they may be able to assess their time on a maternity leave due to childbirth. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, again a major reform head, education reform. We've increased access to education more than ever before. Many of my predecessors expressed that nearly one fifth of the budget, about a quarter of its tax revenues, were spent on education, and we were among the best countries in the world at this point. And because of that, we've increased access to schools from pre-school to higher education in a very serious amount. However, the fourth industrial revolution requires qualified education because in the coming period, artificial intelligence will really mark this age, the era of robotics in homes. The technology that is developing at a stunning rate also requires the creation of new professions and needs, and at this point, we need to restructure education, reform. To that end, we prioritize education reform. In order to increase labour-force efficiency, education needs to be improved, skills need to be increased, initiative needs to be encouraged. In this framework, we will build the teacher's academy in 2016, because in education, the teacher is essential to quality. In light of new developments, our educators will be brought up in this framework. We're going to restructure education schools. We're updating the entire curriculum to include basic skills. We will support foreign language education in a stronger way. In college, we'll all live together, hopefully, a new law on higher education that focuss on quality and autonomy. We're going to set up the high school quality board. We're going to set up a monitoring and evaluation system for active labor force programs to improve skill in the labour market. We're going to strengthen the infrastructure of your training as an apprentice. We'll restructure the universities of applied sciences, make a stronger contribution to the private sector. With all of this, we're going to strengthen the relationship of education and employment by developing all of the vocational and technical schools. Another important area of reform is public finance and public administration reform. During the time of our governments, we've achieved unrecognizable gains in the field of public finances. Today is Turkey's most powerful... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. Today, of course, we're discussing the budget. In fact, last year, Turkey, despite two elections, has brought balance in the budget, in the general public. Of course, there's a lot of talk going on here, but unfortunately, there's not enough references to this budget performance because there's not much to say about it. So at the time of the two elections, Turkey is giving almost zero deficits in public balance. And do you know what the average budget deficit of developing countries last year was? It was about 4.3 per cent of the informal domestic population. Can you imagine, developing countries have given an average deficit of over 4 per cent, while Turkey has balanced the budget despite two elections? But we don't think that's enough because we really need to implement a new income tax law to get justice in taxes, to spread taxes to the bottom, to improve the quality of tax revenues. This draft law has already been submitted to the House, and I hope it will be reviewed and accepted by our Parliament very quickly at this time. Similarly, we rewrote the tax-enforcement law to increase the taxpayer's rights and to ensure its effectiveness in taxes again. We're updating the Public Financial Management and Control Law. We're working on a transition to the performance budget system. Again, we will complete our efforts to rationalize expenses. Public personnel reform, which is a very important area, because the reason for public presence is to provide quality service to the nation. This is why, in the coming period, we hope to take important steps, especially to strengthen public staff reform, efficiency, accountability, transparency, performance-based culture and e-government. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've improved the investment climate during our administrations, yes, we've come a considerable distance. In any case, the progress in the World Bank's Doing Business Index reflects this, but the point is not enough. Of course we don't deny where we came from. During the 1980-2002 period, Turkey received an entry into about $15 billion in global capital. In the 2003-2015 period, a global direct investment of about 165 billion dollars came to Turkey, with almost 47,000 global capital companies at a level of 5,000. All of this shows that Turkey is actually on the right track, that the investment climate is improving in Turkey, that Turkey has given confidence to the investor in this sense. As a matter of fact, despite so much negative propaganda lately, despite this pessimistic weather inside, there have been major investments in Turkey from the automotive sector to many sectors. In this context, we will, of course, implement some reforms in the coming period. We recently implemented RD reform. Now, we've drawn up a new patent law draft, and it's been discussed at the Economic Co-ordination Board, so hopefully it'll be transferred to Parliament soon. The further reduction of bureaucracy, the establishment of residency courts, the incentive for production of medium and high technology is also our key agenda in this area. I've just said, the reform package on supporting RD activities has recently been adopted by our Parliament. With this law, we will strongly support design activities, and there are very important factors to encourage R&D investments, to accelerate the transition to qualified production structure, to produce high-value products; for the first time, it includes very important steps towards the commercialisation of R&D. We're building a fund to boost support for RD and design fields. We'll create special support mechanisms for entrepreneurs in this area. In this framework, we will restructure our Development Bank in the coming period. Because we think that the function of our Bank should be to promote medium and high-tech projects, to commercialize RD. The deepening of capital markets is very important, and at this point, we've brought very important incentives. Especially recently, I think the development of Islamic financial instruments and institutions is a positive trend. Because we also know that traditional structure has caused problems on a global scale from time to time. For him, the diversification of instruments and the diversification of the financial sector, of course, deepening capital markets is very important for Turkey. We removed 5 per cent of the loans that industrial businesses used to finance machinery and equipment, so we made an exception, and so we saved the industry from an estimated $100 million-a-year load. We will allow the transport of the KOBI to be used as collateral. This is a very important reform area, and we're working on it as a treasure right now, hopefully in the first half of this year, we'll bring it to our House, and hopefully, we'll have it legalized. Again, we will support 100 per cent of the Turkish standards and patent document costs of the KOBI. This is also very important because if Turkey is able to compete in the same way as developed countries prepared for the 4th Industrial Revolution, it's really important if the added value is to produce high profit margins. Look, we've raised the bail limit to $2.5m for the investment loans of the SMEs operating in the manufacturing sector to $3 million for the manufacturers in the risk group, and we've raised the deadline to ten years, 75 percent for bail. Along with these, we also offer important support for our tradesman. We're letting the tradesmen and artists use a zero interest loan for up to 30,000 liras. We've made sure that no taxes can be taken from the income of the tax-taxed trader for up to 8,000 liras. We also lifted the obligation to employ 10 workers based on the employer's insurance premium reduction. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, of course the Turkish economy has achieved some really important gains, but there are some issues that we don't have. One of the main problems is that our savings rates are low. Our savings rate at 16 percent is extremely low for countries of similar income. Of course, we should finance investments in Turkey with domestic savings and reduce the current deficit further in the coming period. In order to achieve that, we provided financial discipline during the AK PARTY administrations, balanced public balance, increased public savings by almost eight points in the proportion of national income. Now, in the coming period, we're going to take Turkey up the chain of value with RD support, and we're going to increase the savings of our companies. We also strongly encourage the saving of the households. So at the end of our medium-term program, in 2018, we aim to increase our savings rate to around 18 percent. We did a very important reform last year. We said to our companies, "Go to capital growth instead of debt; and if you increase capital, we will allow you to write it as if you are in debt, as if you are in debt. It's very important. The individual pension system has been extremely successful, with a 25 per cent state contribution, and the number of participants in the system exceeds 6 million. Until recently, we ran a pilot project, where we studied the auto-accession system. We'll be able to automatically join the individual pension system next semester. We'll be presenting a reform study in this framework to Parliament soon. Again, we have set up dowry and housing accounts for the savings of marriage and housing expenses. We provide our citizens with a government contribution of up to 20 percent of the amount of money in the dowry and housing accounts they're going to open in the banks. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, sustainable high growth is only possible with a well-functioning legal system. In April 2015, we shared our Judicial Reform Strategy with the public, and in this scope, we will implement very important reforms in the coming period. For example, we care very much about reviewing the expert system, and we've made progress on it. We really hope to implement the element of judicial reforms in the coming period, in 2016, in the future, such as the integration of judicial centres, the activity of business courts, the increased efficiency of law courts, the restructuring of the notary system. So far, we've launched the Istanbul Research Center. These are all steps to improve the working environment. All of these are, of course, very important steps to boost confidence in the judiciary. Mr. President, we are also committed to increasing transparency and fighting corruption in our country. In this framework, we'll soon be presenting a few basic reforms to the House, hopefully. We will bring to the agenda of our Parliament many issues such as political ethics, the Public Contraction Act, transparency in the financing of politics, the amendments to the zoning plan on principle. This shows that we are sincere in fighting corruption. Dear lawmakers, the third leg of our reform programme is of course the process of integration into the European Union. The European Union's integration process includes total transformation and change, not limited to economic, trade or investment areas alone. In our country, really, if we're going to consolidate the rule of law, if we're going to improve our democratic standards, if we're going to increase our institutional infrastructure, our reference is going to be the European Union. The main agenda of the European Union integration process is the development of the Customs Union Agreement for 2016, the expansion of its scope. The implementation of the resuscitation agreement and completion of visa exemption studies will again be significant gains for Turkey. We are not afraid to compete with the European Union and the world in general. We think it would be in our country's best interest to expand the Customs Union Agreement with the European Union to include services, public purchases and agriculture. I believe Turkey will increase its share in the European market. As a matter of fact, it has continued to increase recently. Many countries around the world, many regions, are making new generations of trade agreements. For example, the TTIP Agreement between Europe and America is now envisioned for this year. We can't stay out of these deals, these new generations of trade agreements. Therefore, we will accelerate our efforts in the coming period for a very comprehensive new-generation customs union agreement with the European Union. In this sense, with the European Union, we aim to achieve a high-level economic summit at the end of April. Dear lawmakers, the refugee issue is not only Turkey's problem, it is a global problem, and it shows that it has entered the G20 results declaration. Yes, today in Turkey, we are hosting over 3 million immigrants, mainly our Syrian brothers and sisters. Yes, today Turkey -- starting in 2012, actually -- is the largest refugee country in the world. For our brothers and sisters who live only in camps, there has been about 10 billion dollars. With Turkey, of course, in the hands of the European Union, with other countries, the demand for co-operation and burden sharing in this global problem is very reasonable. The European Union's contribution is by no means a blessing or help to Turkey; it is a money that will be spent entirely on the Syrians. Look, about 750-800,000 of the refugees in our country today are children of learning. If we can't give these kids a good education, a good future, they can be a threat not just to Turkey, not just to the region, but to the whole world, they can fall into the hands of terrorist organizations. So, in the coming period, we, of course, find it meaningful to get close to the European Union in connection with this refugee issue. I see recent closeness with the European Union as positive, even with the refugee issue. Because we're already doing our part, but at this point, we think it's important that the European Union go to share cargo. In this framework, the acceleration of the negotiations process with the European Union is crucial. Look, this week, the EU Summit, led by our Prime Minister, has taken considerable distance. Of course, the EC PARTY governments have opened the way for talks with the EU, and hopefully, we will all end negotiations with the European Union together. Come, in the coming period, let's quickly implement the legal arrangements necessary for the visa exemption of the European Union, and in the next two months, let's all meet the conditions of visa exemption. Turkey is now a country that peaks twice a year with the European Union. For whatever reason -- again -- all these developments are very positive that will speed up our convergence with the European Union. Again, Cyprus has a more positive course of talks than ever before. This is an encouraging development. In Cyprus, we have always supported a fair solution, and we will continue to support it. Again, Russia is our neighbor and an important business partner. No neighbor of ours is our enemy, nor is Russia our enemy, nor will he be. With the settlement of the problems in Syria, I believe that our relations with Russia will return to its former course. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, of course, have an effort to make the problems in foreign policy, especially in nearby geography, appear to be a problem produced by the EC PARTY, a problem created by our government. In fact, we've been a country for a long time trying to achieve stability, prosperity, more democracy, more freedom. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Since 2006, we have warned Iraq many times. Please, do not engage in a sectal, ethnically-axised policy. We said, "Come, take this country further in an approach that will embrace all of us, there are many possibilities." Unfortunately, today's situation has been, of course, from that sectal axis or ethnically equitable politics. Similarly, in Syria, we, of course, made a great effort to open more reforms to the Syrian administration, more spaces to the opposition until the last minute. When the Syrian regime began to use weapons against its people, we came to a different point by following a human, conscientious and primitive attitude. We are, like some countries of the West, a government that immediately strays from our principles when conditions change, such as some other countries of the world, and does not take a stand differently from our stand, of course, human, conscientious, and moral. If we're being criticized for this, then it's our nation's appreciation. Dear lawmakers, thanks to the structural reforms we carried out and carried out during the time of our governments, the healthy policies we implemented, we've achieved very important economic gains. Look, in this period -- no matter what anyone says -- Turkey has grown fast, it has increased jobs, it has improved income distribution, inflation has been reduced to one household, financial discipline has been established, interest rates have been reduced, banking sector has been established in a solid structure. Despite the largest global crisis in the last 60 years, Turkey has achieved a growth rate of close to 5 per cent. Turkey has literally increased its national income by 2.7 times per person, 2.3 times in dollars, 2.3 times the power to buy. Turkey's national income per capita has risen by about 20 points compared to the European average. So we closed the gap with the European Union at exactly 20 points in the period of the AK PARTY government, with the power to buy per capita income. (EA/DG) I wish every ten years, every 15 years, Turkey could close 15 points, 20 points with Europe. During the AK PARTY administrations, we closed more than 20 points. Now, look, in the post-global crisis period, from 2010-2014, Turkey grew by about 5.4 per cent, and among the OECD countries, it ranked number one in growth. Again, last year, Turkey's economy grew around 4%. The results haven't been released yet, statistics. But let me be clear: China, India, these are the size of continents. If you separate them, the developing countries last year have grown by an average of 1.7 percent. Despite the two elections, Turkey grew by around 4 per cent, despite the geopolitical tensions in our entire region, despite the political uncertainty, when the world's economy grew by 3 per cent, when China, India, the developing economies, grew 1.7 per cent. It's a success. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It is certainly not appropriate to consider Turkey's recent macroeconomic performance independently of the developments around us, the long-term recession of the European Union. Yes, our biggest trade partner, the European Union, has fallen into a long-term recession after the global crisis. Yes, the Arab Spring has turned into winter and around us is a circle of fire. Despite all of this, Turkey has grown to over 5 per cent in the post-global crisis period and achieved a great success. Again, let me give a simple figure to those who claim that the weather in Turkey is bad with recent statistics. In January, the Industrial Production Index increased by 5.6 per cent a year, free of the impact of the calendar. Thus, Turkey's economy continues to surprise and continue to grow. Wealth continues to grow in Turkey. We're doing our part for this growth of prosperity and for a fairer distribution. [[Noises]] Look, in our country, it's inclusive, and it's job-friendly...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0178par0108	Mr. Secretary, just a moment... Congressmans, there's a hum in the hall. Let's hear it together, without disturbing the Minister's influence. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0179par0111	Growth in our country is an inclusive and employment-friendly growth. Yes, in Turkey, we almost destroyed absolute poverty in global standards. We don't have a citizen living on less than a dollar today. We don't have citizens living on income today for less than $2.15. Today, our citizen living on a daily income of less than four dollars and 30 cents has reduced to less than two per cent. It was over 30 per cent before the EC PARTY governments came to power. So if we take the absolute poverty limit before the AK PARTI governments as $4.30, in terms of daily income, about one third of Turkey's population is in absolute poverty today less than 2 percent of Turkey's population is absolute -- hopefully, at the end of the medium-term programme, absolute poverty is the highest standard of the United Nations -- that's what we'll get at this point. I'll tell you this: OECD issued a report. Yes, in Turkey, income distribution needs to be improved, it is true, but it is one of the two countries that improve income distribution. Look, the increase in employment supports it. Turkey has found work for 6.7 million people as the world struggles to create jobs after the global crisis. Finding a job means getting out of poverty. 6.7 million is not short. Look, I'll tell you this: We are third in the world in employment growth among developing countries. If you add developed countries to the growth of jobs in the world, we're still in the fourth place. So Turkey, yes, has been very successful in its employment growth. This shows that we're moving further and further towards improving income distribution in the fight against poverty. But we're not happy where we are. So, look, we made a minimum wage commitment, we fulfilled our minimum wage commitment, and for that, of course, we supported the workforce from the budget again, so that the competitive forces wouldn't be too impressed. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey's foundations are solid. Turkey's capital efficiency in the banking sector today is nearly double the capital required by Basel III standards, which will take place in 2018, perhaps 2019. If you look at the current quality here at around 3% -- of course it's delayed -- in terms of the frozen loans -- the active quality is also very high in this sense. Banking sectors are sound, public finances are sound, household debt is low, state debt is low; Turkey's foundations are sound. Yeah, we got problems. We need to lower the unemployment rate in Turkey, so we're implementing a structural reform programme. We need to increase savings in Turkey and reduce the current deficit, so I've already talked about reforms in a long way. We need to bring inflation down to 5 percent and then to a low single home, so we're reforming. The private sector's debts are often referred to, very clearly, without public-private division. Yes, the private sector's debt has increased, but the private sector's assets have increased. Look, for the past two or three years, the lira has been significantly devalued in Turkey, the interest has increased a bit; however, in Turkey, our companies have not suffered a loss in turning over their debts, finding debts, paying back debts. Look, about 50 percent of the private sector's debt has five years or more. That's why... because we've brought incentives and we've offered the opportunity to extend the cost of the private sector's debt. Last year we did a very important reform, and we told the private sector: go to more capital growth. More common, open to the public, open to the stock market, and let's give you bigger advantages than loans, loans. Many of the companies in the private sector are large-scale companies. These are professional-run companies, and most of them are positioned by trade. Therefore, the private sector's debt is also manageable. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there are several comments from time to time on credit card debts. The national income rate of all the households is less than 23 per cent. It is more than 65 per cent in the European Union. Of course, access to financing has increased, and of course, our people have met single-digit inflation and low interest during the AK PARTY administrations. So, of course, there's been some increase in the debt of the household, but in order to expose the debt of the household as a risk, we really have to force it, because we're in a very good place, both from developing countries and from developed countries. There's been a lot of talk about public finance, a lot of talk. Today, Turkey is one of the rare countries that provides Maastricht Kriteria with both debt and deficits, and in the coming period, we will have reduced the rate of public gross debt to less than 30 per cent in the middle term programme. It's about 32.6% now. The proportion is about one third of the European Union and nearly one quarter of the OECD. My predecessors brought up the interest issue. In fact, the last thing to talk about is the interest burden in Turkey, especially in the budget. Why? It's very simple: About 86 per cent of the budget tax revenues went to interest before the EC PARTY, and what percentage of them go to interest today? 13 percent are going. Yes, 43 per cent of the budget was going to interest, and today it goes to about 10 per cent interest. No matter what anyone says, at the interest point, Turkey, of course, has gone a great distance by giving confidence, reducing inflation, reducing budget deficits. Let me give you a simple number, and since the numbers are being talked about, I'll give you a very simple number: if in 2015, the interest was the same in the budget as in 2002, so if the interest was the same in the budget in 2015, if the interest was the same in 2002, then our interest would be about $219 billion. So, how much did we pay? We paid about 50 billion liras. We've paid less than a quarter of this. Let me give you another number: Since 2002, we've been able to save more than $900 billion in interest in this framework. So, where did these savings go, went to education, went to health, went to infrastructure, went as a service to our nation, even reduced taxes? Of course, one of the key criticisms is that the Court does not have enough control, at an accountability point, at the point of transparency, where we do not show the sensitivity necessary. Look, I'd like to share with you the note from the Court that, as a result of audits conducted under the audit programme of 2012, 99 per cent of general budgetary administrations...
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0180par0124	Mr. President, this is the government, not listening, sir, not listening to the ruling party. Please warn me.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0181par0125	Congressmans, let's stop humming, please. This is the Minister speaking.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0179par0126	See, the Court says that 99.79 per cent in general budgetary administrations, 100 per cent in private budgetary administrations, 100 per cent in private budgeted administrations, 100 per cent in regulatory institutions, 100 per cent in regulatory institutions, 100 per cent in city private administrations, 100 per cent in major city municipalities, 94 per cent in major municipal administrations, 100 per cent in municipal municipalities, 34 per cent in development agencies, and 99.96 per cent in other administrations. There are small district municipalities where the audit is relatively limited, which is part of a programme. Therefore, regarding the final account of 2014, the Court has made the necessary inspections and submitted all relevant reports to our Parliament. All these reports have been presented, including six general fitness notifications, Foreign Control General Evaluation Report, Action General Evaluation Report, Financial Statistics Evaluation Report, CIT General Report, Development Agency General Control Report. 482 public administration audit reports, 74 KİT reports, 77 political parties' financial audit reports, 1.550 reports have been submitted to relevant authorities, including the main report on the 911 trial. Therefore, it is a pure claim that the Court's control is inadequate, that there is weakness at the point of accountability, that the Court's numbers are made very clearly and clearly, that the control is being done. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course we did it with a long-term perspective while we were doing the 2016 budget. Our most important, most powerful part is that we prioritize human capital, so we spend the most on health and education. This is truly an important achievement for Turkey because your investment in education today will return to Turkey as a high return for the next 30 years and 40 years. Our population is relatively young, our working - age population is growing rapidly, and that is a great advantage for us. Look, the working population in the European Union is increasing by 0.1 per cent, and we're increasing by around 2 per cent. This is an important opportunity for us. And that's why we take that into consideration when we're investing the most resources in the budget. We will increase efficiency with reforms, we will increase competition with reforms, we will strengthen the foundations of Turkey with reforms, and this will increase prosperity in Turkey. We will further strengthen our institutional infrastructure in the European Union process. All of this, I can tell you that Turkey is not as fragile as it's supposed to be, but rather, its foundations are solid, and it will be divided by positive reform practices in the coming period. There have been many criticisms. From time to time, we draw such a pessimistic picture that we wonder which country is really mentioned. We love what is created because of the Creator. We are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not. We embrace all of our people without distinction. As a Turkish citizen of Kurdish descent, I'm a witness to that. Because I've always said, as the child of an illiterate farmer, if I'm at this point today... I know those bans when I leave my village, there are no curfews today. There's no reason for terror today.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0182par0129	There's a ban on speaking now, Mr. Secretary, whether it's Turkish or Kurdish.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0179par0130	If the terrorist organization had the right to our Kurdish brothers, the weapons would have been buried long ago. If the weapons are not buried and the solution process has been exploited, then of course, we will continue to solve our problems on the axis of fundamental rights and freedoms, but we will continue to speak the language he understands with the terrorist organization. That's what this is about. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, there are 36 different ethnic elements in our country. They're all the same to us, they're all equal to us, we can't discriminate on any of them.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0183par0133	You don't realize you're dividing it by 36, Mr. Secretary, because it's ethnic. Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0184par0134	Give me a count, give me a count.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0179par0135	Likewise, in the case of the sect... the claim that our Prime Minister described the DEAC militants as nervous children does not reflect the facts, it is an obvious slander.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0184par0136	You can't count ten.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0179par0137	Since 2006, we have always warned the countries of the region.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0185par0138	It's 36, count 10 of them.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0179par0139	We said, "Do not engage in ethnic and sectarian politics in order to avoid setting the stage for terrorism."
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0185par0140	You're doing that ethnic and religious thing, it's in your speech.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0179par0141	Let me make it clear that the allegations of corruption were brought up at the end of 2013.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0185par0142	Does everyone have to say their origins?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0179par0143	...the allegations of corruption are clear and clear today with political opinions, which has come to light. And the perception of corruption in Turkey has not deteriorated according to 2002. In 2002, Turkey ranked 65th among 102 countries.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0185par0144	Forget perception, is there corruption or not?
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0179par0145	So it's in the worst one-third tranche in terms of the perception of corruption. According to the Corruption Perception Index, which was announced at the beginning of 2016, Turkey is ranked 66th among the 168 countries. So the perception of corruption is among the first 50 per cent that is positive, and therefore, in dealing with corruption -- I've already told you -- we will reform, we will continue our struggle.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0185par0146	Look, they don't applaud, Mr. Secretary, they don't believe.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0179par0147	Again, look, during the AK PARTY administrations, we've always stressed that economics and democracy go horse-to-head. We've always gone on with this emphasis, and you'll see from now on that we will strive to consolidate a world-class legal state that has the basic rights and freedoms of all reforms. Yes, Turkey's GDP in dollars is down, but the world's GDP in dollars is down. Look, I'll give you a number: the global GDP was 77.3 trillion dollars in 2014, and last year it dropped to 73.5 trillion dollars. Last year the world trade dropped 14 percent in dollars, in dollars. So it's not just a case of Turkey. Of course, those who have nothing to say about the budget are constantly targeting our President. That actually makes a lot of sense. We must avoid making the presidency the subject of daily polemics. As a weakness of the opposition, this emerges. The aim of terrorism is to weaken the will to reform Turkey. Therefore, we should all share a common attitude to fight terrorism together. Mr. President, with Allah's permission, we have maintained the same sensitivity in our 14th budget, as we have observed the trust of our nation in the 13 previous budgets. Our country wishes our country's budget of 2016, which we aim to provide better service to its citizens and raise its living standards, to be good to our nation again, with my regards and greetings to all of you.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0186par0153	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Now, as the final speaker, I would like to call Istanbul MP Aykut Erdoğdu to the stand on behalf of individuals and against them. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0187par0158	Mr. President, welcome, Mr. President, on the most important day of the budget, before the vote, you see, the government line is empty and the Prime Minister is not here, but we, of course, will be speaking to the Prime Minister as the owner of the budget. Dear lawmakers, this budget is the basis of all of the government's political decisions and practices. In the government's thirteen-year implementations, there are hundreds of issues from democracy to foreign policy, economy to justice that we can strongly criticize the government. However, where we come from, our country's unity and integrity, its economic and social future are in grave and imminent danger. Under the circumstances, in this final statement of the budget, we will not only criticize the government, but we will make recommendations to save our country from the deadlock. Dear MPs, Turkey's most important problem is social polarization. During the 13-year period of AKP rule, our people, secular-conservative, Kurdish-Turkish, Alevi-Sunni, were separated; our will to live together was reduced, and society turned into a powder keg ready to explode at any moment. Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, the main reason for social dissolution is the segregation language you use. You accuse all opponents of being coupters or terrorists, supporting terrorism, feeding on blood. You have to give up that language. Mr. Prime Minister, because of the social dissolution and the state you've made, our country's name is remembered with authoritarian and totalitarian states, our democracy is considered a hybrid democracy. This is a very humiliating situation. Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, the foundation of democracy is the division of forces. You need to stop interfering with the judiciary. Your government and the Supreme Assembly are under the President's custody. You have to end this custody and restore the separation of forces. Mr. Prime Minister, in order for the public not to know the truth, you must end the pressure and censorship you've put on the press immediately, not to have journalists beat up, not to shut down newspapers and televisions, not to have opposition journalists arrested, and more importantly, not to appoint newspaper-pushing Vandals as deputy ministers. You must stop using the power and resources of the public as a reward for your allies and punishment for your opponents. Mr. Prime Minister, you have failed in the peace process of the Kurdish issue; in this secret process, you have removed the Supreme Assembly and taken direct access to the illegal structures; you have made promises that you cannot keep for your partisan interests; you have allowed the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to use the peace process as a preparation for war, to arm the cities and mine the roads; you have allowed the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to use it as a means to create internal conflict in order to ensure November 1st elections after losing the June 7th elections. These conflicts, which have been raised to influence the outcome of the elections, continue to be heavy. In the coming weeks, there's a chance that conflicts will spread to our western provinces. In the face of this heavy situation, you must conduct the fight against terrorism within the law and set the ultimate goal as social peace. Remember: Security policies, paranoid and hostile approaches are of no use to any of us. Mr. Prime Minister, in order to end terrorism, you must immediately initiate a healthy democratization process and take away the propaganda tools of the terrorist organization. The Kurdish problem is a regional problem. In this context, you must recognize the Kurds living in Iraq and Syria as relatives, just like the Turkmen, and strengthen our unity and brotherhood on the basis of equality and freedom, not just of the country, but of the region. Mr. Prime Minister, we're all alone in the world because of your foreign policy. We don't have any neighbors without a fight. We don't have ambassadors in five major countries. This bad situation we've fallen into in foreign policy is not a valuable loneliness, it's a dangerous isolation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You're being unprincipled and incoherent in foreign policy, where it's a rule to be principled and consistent. In front of the public, you're challenging Israel to,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, and you're trying to prove that your party is pro-Israeli by bribing US lobby companies with $67 million from the state budget. First you say to Sisi, "Killer!," and then you send a car for dessert together. Suddenly, my brother Assad had become the murderer Esed. What was NATO doing in Libya? Then you attacked Libya along with NATO. Your relationship, which began with my friend Putin, ended with the name of Putin, the murderer. You're unreliable and incoherent in foreign policy. Our borders have turned into a crossing inn. Our airspace is full of holes. Under the circumstances, you dropped a Russian plane in Syria without even considering the outcome. Mr. Prime Minister, Western imperials looted the countries they occupied with the lie to take the democracy, leaving behind blood, tears, pain and radical terror organizations. Remember, the imperial states are waging a power of attorney in the Middle East, and their goal is to sell weapons and buy their oil while making the oppressed Middle Eastern peoples break into each other's heads. You've become the side of this dirty war. You're about to become the shooter of the imperial states on your way to becoming leader of Islamic countries. Mr. Prime Minister, the strategic pit you fell into in foreign policy has severe consequences. Because of the war you're on, 450,000 people have died, millions of people have died from their homeland. The oppressed Middle East people are dying on their death journey to get to Western countries. Underdogs who survive are being treated as non-humans. You're negotiating horses with EU countries for 3 billion euros. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have a historical and moral responsibility to the people whose countries have been destroyed. Apart from ISIS, Al Qaeda and the Nusra killers, all the oppressed who come to our country are our brothers. We must welcome these brothers and sisters under the best of circumstances until peace is established in their country. Prime Minister, foreign policy is your responsibility. O Esed! O Sisi!, O Merkel!, O Putin!, AB!, O U.S.A.! Get in the way of this situation. I assure you, there are billions of worlds who are equally disturbed by Erdogan, just as we are disturbed by the alien enemy Donald Trump of the United States. (HPP cheers) Foreign policy should be your responsibility, not Erdogan's. Mr. Prime Minister, in and out, your oppressive, segregating and aggressive policies combined with corruption and decay have brought our national economy to the point of collapse. Cari, our open problem has become chronic. In order to finance the Cari deficit, we are constantly selling our assets to strangers, which is not enough, but we are in debt. Our banks, airports, mines, communications and energy infrastructure have fallen into the hands of foreigners. Our land is being sold to strangers. In our own country, we turned into debtors and undocumented slaves. Your honeymoon period with excessive debt and property sales is over. We've reached the limits of debt. We have very little left to sell. Mr. Prime Minister, the revenue distribution has been very bad, there's no income justice left. The profits of our people, forced to work long hours with very low wages, are divided among the elites of your party. In the past 13 years, the total amount of public resources transferred to the gang of Genghis, Limak, MAPA, Kolin and Kalyon is 85 billion dollars. The end of this course in economics is an economic and social crisis that we have never seen in our history. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Prime Minister, welcome. I'm afraid that's all the respect you have for our budget. But you're welcome anyway. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The result of these economic policies can result in an economic and social crisis and a national bankruptcy and dissolution. Mr. Prime Minister, in order to stop this bad course of action, you have to call corruption and corruption that cripples our economy. You're not doing your duty to fight corruption. At this rate, you'll go down in history as a shadow prime minister who doesn't steal, but who doesn't steal. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Mr. President, the valued MPs, the Final Accounting Law for 2014 and the budget for 2016, were discussed without the Court's reports to hide organised corruption that paralyzed the Turkish economy. This is the act of violating the Constitution and placing the budgetary right and control authority of the High Assembly in effect. This authoritarian and totalitarian government that's up to its neck in corruption... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's my last sentence.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0188par0186	I'll give you a minute, wrap it up, sir. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0187par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. We'll vote against this budget, thinking that every penny that's been given to the government, this authoritarian and totalitarian who's been up to his neck in corruption, will be unlawful. Dear lawmakers, we know that our roots come from Kuvaimilliya, the Anatolian and Rumeli Defense Law Society. I want you to know, Prime Minister, that we know that we're going to have curses on the outside and on the outside. We'll have curses on the outside and on the outside, but the Republic of Turkey will always have a share. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0189par0193	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Members of parliament, talks on the 2016 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2014 Central Management Computation Act were thus completed. Now, we're going to vote on the 2016 Central Management Budget Act and the 2014 Central Management Computation Bill. The drafts are subject to a clear vote. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote of both legislations should be carried out by electronic voting device: those who agree... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, we begin the open vote for the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled for a vote. In addition, I request that the ministers who will vote by proxy, which minister will vote by proxy, vote by which they vote, vote by the name of the vote, and the ballot bearing its name and its signature, again in the three-minute period envisioned for the vote, and I will proceed with the voting process. Here you go. [[The vote was started with the electronic device.]] Congressmans, we're a little late in explaining the results because the ballots and the MPs who entered the system were compared. I'm sorry, they're tidying up now. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] Members of parliament, the draft of the 2016 Central Management Budget Act is the result of an open vote: ▪ Number of votes used: 430 [[x]] So, 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill was adopted. We will now move on to the open vote of the 2014 Central Management Computation Bill. I'll give you three minutes to vote again. I'm starting the voting process. [[The electronic device started voting.]] Congressmans, after the vote, there will be a thank-you speech from the Prime Minister. Ben, first of all, of course, as the voting process continues... you've had a busy shift, we've all spent a lot of time together. On this occasion, I would like to thank Mr. Presidents, Vice Presidents and Clerk Members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the members of our party groups, Mr. President and Group Presidents, the chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission and their families, all the members of the Finance Minister and the government, for their contribution and participation to all the bureaucrats. We also have the general secretary-secretary and executive executives of our administration, which supports our work through legislation, administrative and technical services, the executives and executives of our administration, the executives and executives of Laws and Decisions who provide close support to the Court, the executives and legislators who work for one week without a break, the press workers who publish budget texts, the people who work hard at the commission, the people who serve their services, the stenographers who record our commitments, the staff who operate the technical system in the General Assembly, the staff staff staff who work for our demands, the staff and the staff who are working on all our motions, the staff that we are working on one-to- one-to-one, the staff of all the parties, the people who are working on our meetings, the security committees, the staff, the staffing staff, the staff, the staff, the staff and the staff who are working staff who are working with all of our food, and the staffs, and the staffs, and the staff who are all of our staff who are all of our staff who are working with our food, and the staff. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] Congressmans, I'm announcing the outcome of the open vote of the 2014 Central Management Computation Bill: ▪ Number of votes used: 430 [[x]] The 2014 Central Management Final Accounting Bill has been adopted. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, as a result of intense labor and overtime, we have accepted budget and precise account laws and are now under law. Therefore, I hope it will be good for our nation, our country, and our government. Now, I'd like to call our Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu to the stand for his thank-you speeches. Here you go, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0190par0238	Mr. President, I'd like to thank you on behalf of our nation for your contributions to the budget negotiations and for your trust. Our High Council is the ultimate custodian of the national will and the final accountability office. Budgets are the most important means of accountability at every stage. I assure you that every penny, every note, every penny, our honor, and every penny will be preserved to the last point of your vote of confidence today. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] May Allah bless our budget and make it good, and help us in the service of our people. I hereby thank our Parliamentary Speakers, Parliament Speakers, Vice Presidents, members of the Presidential Court, all of our Parliamentary staff for their contributions to the budget talks. I also want to thank the members of the Plan and Budget Commission, the officials of our Finance Ministry, each and every one of our institutions. His efforts will always be appreciated during the implementation of our budget. On this occasion, I congratulate our women's deputies once again on World Women's Day, which we celebrated yesterday, and salute our women from this council bench. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] On this occasion, I would like to call on all four of our Parliaments, all of our MPs, no exceptions. The roof of this great House is the center of the national will. We represent our nation. Each of us may have come from different provinces, each of us may represent different political trends, but in the end, this stand and ultimately this great roof represents our nation's sovereignty, its future, its duty to protect its honor, all of us. In order to maintain that honor, it is important that we all embrace a way that is open to criticism during the work of our Parliament, but also to respect kindness and kindness. I said four calls. First, come, let us be united against terror, regardless of our views. It's as if, in our belief, he killed a human being who tried to kill a human being, no matter what. For whatever reason, let's meet in common with those who are trying to kill us. I know a debt of gratitude to our Parliamentary Speaker, who led the session that day, as well as to all of our parties, as the terrorists wanted to interrupt the work of the Grand Assembly, a remarkable image appeared in Turkey. The discreet attitude we showed that day has to be shown on all grounds. Until public order prevails in every inch of Turkey, we will continue to fight terrorism until democratic rights and freedoms are dominated everywhere. We're all in the same position as our security units, who are actually fighting in the field in the fight against terrorism. Once again, I cherish our martyrs from here. I offer my condolences to the families of the martyrs, their wives, their mothers, their fathers, their children from the seat of our great House, and once again, I want to emphasize that they are ours. Today, operations were completed in Tyre. Hopefully, democratic rule of law and public order will prevail all over Turkey, no district, no province, no valley, no armed forces will ever be allowed on the banks of any river. We will not allow those who try to disrupt the lives of our people there with barricades, pits, mines in any of our cities, any of our districts. Once again, I'm telling you from this point forward, no one is to justify these acts of terrorism on this stand. Come on, let's all say everything on this stand, discuss the most contrary ideas, say everything in a manner that suits the honor of this bench, but let's never compromise terrorism, never take a stand to justify terrorists. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My second call is a call that I've highlighted when I visited the highly respected Presidents: Let's put aside the constitution of coup and the entire coup law and write together a new constitution on behalf of the nation, based on the honor of every citizen and rejecting any kind of power. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Once again, without preconditions, whatever we have in our saddlebags, whatever we have in our minds, let's bring it to the Constitutional Commission, the Compromise Commission, these commissions, other commissions and the General Assembly, but let's not carry the burden of not being able to write the constitution on us. Let future generations call this era's Parliament a new and liberal constitution. We as an EC PARTY and as a government, we have no prerequisite, we have no prejudice against any idea, but our decision on the matter is that one way or another, we will write a liberal constitution that the nation expects, and we will present it to the discretion of the General Assembly. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) What's nice is that we all write it together -- a beautiful way of doing a whole non-violence of the coup law, based on head-to-head, mind, heart-to-heart, mind-to-heart. I'm calling once again, and I'd like to maintain my optimism about it. Third: This is a bench representing the general code of conduct, conscience, morality, virtue, wisdom of our nation. Let there not be on this bench any words, statements, or words that we would prevent from being spoken in any family environment that our nation does not approve of, not even behind closed doors, because 78 million people are listening to us as we speak, and whatever party we are from, they have an opinion about us. Let us adopt an attitude based on basic moral principles, manners, kindness, kindness, mutual respect, and tolerance for the presence of this Assembly in the presence of the public with a positive opinion. We have a year to go before the next budget. Even if we disagree, there is no way we're going to be involved in violence in this House. Even though we have different opinions, let's not allow any insults. Let's criticize them, but make sure we don't hurt them. On the evening of the November 1st election, I made a promise in the presence of the Holy One, just after the election. I told you we only came to this land to sow the seeds of love. Let us first plant the seeds of love in the House, and build together a great land that will rise with the seeds of love in the House, under which everyone appreciates. As an AK PARTY group, I have every confidence that my friends will pay full attention in this matter, and I believe that all our parties will act within these basic measurements. Come in this frame, and together, let us rewrite our House of Parliament in a way that is open to criticism from every aspect, from every perspective, which gives the office all the rights to criticize, but guarantees the active work of the Assembly. Given the compromise points we've come to on the matter of the Civil Charter, let's write together an internal charter, which, as I say, allows us to argue all sorts of things, but is expected by the nation to delay reforms, and not allow bloc-based practices, and let the House continue with a new constitution, a new internal code of coup law, a liberal atmosphere. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My fourth call: history is moving very quickly. Political and economic stability are the minimum conditions for the development of a nation, but while history is running fast, we can't remain constant, we can't be status quo, we can't be content with what exists. What we need most is a reformist mentality at a time when technological possibilities are changing at this rate, when social conditions are resolving in a great state of motion. Reform is the absolute guarantee of countries, especially when history flows fast. For him, one of the most focused subjects of our 64th government was the fulfillment of our promises and the implementation of our reforms. I'm proud to say right now, and thank you to each and every one of you, that we have fulfilled 82 percent of our commitments as of today. We'll complete it by the end of March, hopefully. We also referred 50% of our reforms planned for the first three months to Parliament. I ask you, especially from Mr. President and all my friends of the main opposition party, to discuss reforms together when such a need for reforms is needed, but let's not get ahead of our reforms. In these reforms, there's a package in particular, which is very important to us these days -- reforms on visa exemptions. It was 72 articles. At the Turkish-European Union Summit, which we did on November 29th, we fulfilled 19 of it with your contributions, and now there are 53 more. These are the elements of different laws, the things that must be fulfilled in various ways. We moved the date of visa exemption scheduled for 1 October at the Turkish-European Union Summit, which we held on Monday to June, after long and difficult talks. (PARTI) Hopefully, in June, tens, at least fifty years, our citizens will be recognized for access to the Schengen countries of Europe with dignity and dignity and dignity in front of the embassies, where they have been longing for at least 50 years, without waiting in front of the consulates. But in order for this to happen, I want to make it very clear that in order for it to arrive in June, I want to repeat my call from here, from the council seat: by May 1st, we need to complete the reforms on these 53 articles that remain. My request, if we all do this together, we will go to the public, and as all parties, we will have the honor of saying it together. But if it gets blocked and somehow this delays, the plague stays on those who delay. The EC PARTI Group will then make an effort to get it out on its own, but what we want, what we want, is that all parties, no matter what political opinion, all of whom are behind this reform, must complete it by May 1st, because if it is completed by May 1st, it will be passed by the Council of Europe and the European Commission, and it will be approved by the European Parliament. If we present this by May 1st in our talks, I hope this process will be completed by the end of June... I hope a positive response to this call is given, we stand side by side against all these calls, terror, we write a new constitution, a liberal constitution together, we write together a new civil code for a critical, effective parliamentary study, and we carry out the reforms that our people have been waiting for, including visa exemption. I thank each and every one of you once again for your trust, one by one, with all due respect, and I wish our budget to be blessed and fruitful.
tbmm-2016-03-09sit03spe0191par0267	[[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY]] Thank you, Prime Minister. So that's the end of the agenda and the merger. Congressmans, I am closing the merger to meet at 3:00 p.m. on Thursday (March 10th 2016) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I wish you all the best, and good evening.
