tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 14th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Have a good week, have a good day at work. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, violence against women in Turkey, gender inequality, unsecured working conditions, problems with refugee women are increasing by the day, unfortunately, to large numbers. And in addition to that, many women are being detained, tortured, and beaten today with general arrests and detention moves. The common presidential system established on the basis of democracy and equality is being taken into custody, our co-chairs are being taken into custody, and even their lawyers are being interviewed days later. The government's derogatory remarks that insult women, if you don't like men who try to justify harassment on women's clothing, you hum them if you don't like it. You encourage men to commit more crimes, while the guilty men are not in the balance of justice. He releases them from good behavior. The judge, for example, informs our friend Ayşegül Terzil, who was finally kicked in the face on the subway, if he makes any other attempt. And the men who committed this crime were dressed in defiling clothing for the women he molested, and they defend themselves by saying: For years, women have actually known about this treatment, this understanding, and for years, we have struggled against this male dominant mentality. For this reason, we have established women's shelters such as the Purple Roof, and we have carried out demonstrations of solidarity against violence, persecution, and we have campaigned against sexual harassment, against rape. It is a sad situation that we have fought in the 1980s today to come to the same point again and that women have to fight the same battles again. Women have achieved very serious gains in their struggle, very serious institutionalisations have taken place, but the same mentality today is trying to show all women its power in a more dominant way, in a more male way, in a militant way, now that it is in power in no way discriminated against. The arrest of KJA (KJA), KJA spokesman Ayla Akat Akat (Akat) is an effort to break the women's struggle, which is the only female news agency in the world. This is the result of futile efforts, which I'd like to point out to you that Turkey is the 130th ranked ranking between 144 countries, according to the Global Gender Offensive Report of the World Economic Forum. Turkey has fallen to the 130th position due to its practices on women. Women's unemployment increased by 12.4 per cent in 2016, especially in the case of young women's unemployment, and women's employment rate has dropped dramatically, and we can't really end up counting the women who were killed in women's murders. Women's murders, despite the struggle of women, because of the mentality that I've just expressed, are not in our mindset of equality. Due to the mentality that says "woman-man equality." Due to the mental state of mind, women in modern life are more spread around, and they are subjected to violence by men who see them as their owners in the streets, who try to see them this way, and who are supported by power. Yes, today's war in the country has a serious impact on everyone, especially women and children. As long as we don't get out of this, there's no way out of women's violence or labor killings. War affects everything, and it's women's struggle that will end this war, as it has been for many years. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Niğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer, who wants to talk about Niğde's problems. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0004par0023	Mr. President, just one year ago, I came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a member of parliament. What promises were fulfilled for Niğde a year earlier today? Sadly, I see that the promises to Niğde were not fulfilled. For 14 years, the airport will be built. It is tried and not built; for 14 years, medical school will be opened. It is called, it does not open. The high-speed train project does not have a name for Niğde. The Akkaya Dam continues to be an environmental disaster. Niğde-Ankara Highway is on the program, but it's not in practice. The building of the palace of justice will be completed in seven hundred days. It is said that it cannot be completed in seven thousand days. The old state hospital at Niğde headquarters is a wreck, and it's unpredictable. The Bor Military Factory is closing. The Niğde Sugar Factory, unfortunately, has been in the most malfunctioning factory situation since its technology has not been renewed, and the workers have not been given staff, so the staffless workers have been waiting for years with hope. The state hospital could not be opened in a nation for months. There is no telling the fate of the water that will be brought to him by the glory of Sugarpınar. Yelatan, and the Pilot, and the Badger, and the Swan, and the Tsardac, and the Burch, and the Jallah, and the Keeper, and the Mahmatites. In Niğde, the manufacturer is also miserable; the apple is for ten cents, the potato is for 25 cents, the tomato is for 15 cents... and the melon is in the field this year, unfortunately, unable to find a buyer. A $50 incentive for potatoes is expected. With no money in the farmer, so is the tradesman, naturally. Since the graduates of the University of Niğde couldn't find work, the city returned to the city of unemployment. Niğde was not included in Ipard. So, the European Union's Rural Development Project is taking advantage of Bursa, Iconia, Nevşehir, Aksaray, Niğde can't. Unfortunately, the basin-based supports do not mention the name Nigde. Niğde didn't get a share of tourism, but 10,000 years of history was not made available in Niğde. In this regard, I have submitted more than 900 questions regarding the problems of Niğde. I'm also sorry to see that some of the answers to some of them will not come as promises to the region. Right now, there is Darkdere, Himmetli, Pool, Halaç, Tepeköy, Asmaz, Koçak, Rooster, Karacaören, Mine, Gedelli, İmrahor, Sheikhmerli, Koluz, Bademare, Eminlik, Elmeli pond. There's a problem with the irrigation water. There's a problem with marketing products. For some reason, Niğde was turned into an unclaimed province. In this regard, I call to the government: Do not leave Niğde (Nigde) on the sides of the 2017 investments, but take care of the problems of Niğde. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I can tell you many, many hours about the problems of Niğde, but our country has also entered a troubled period. More and more incomprehensible things are being done. There is no way to find the application to a newspaper the age of a republic, such as the Republic, understandable. It's not a good way to go, it's got to be dropped. There have been problems with the description and testimony of what had been done. Trying to fight the Republican newspaper because I'm fighting the terrorist organization is the biggest betrayal of this country's future. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] As we do not find the action against the Republic understandable, we are strongly condemning the attack on our Vice President, Bulent Tezcan. This hand that reaches out to politicians, you know, one day it knocks on everyone's door. In this context, it should be our duty as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to stand up to both of them in solidarity in the attack on both the Republic and the Vice President. Our country has seen coups. He's often been left-handed in these blows. Today's practices show that the bill for the process is required to be paid and then cut to the left again. If you put people in public who love their country, who favor independence, who fight for the future of their state as criminals, you can't tell anyone about it. In this context, in order to make our future right, I'd like to warn the government that if this goes on, it's not going well for the country, we all suffer in the end. If someone's door is being knocked on, it's yours, too. It's helpful to review these applications altogether. Just as we know how to stand up to the July 15 coup in unity and unity, we have to make a sound against the wrongs. If we don't keep quiet, you'll know that one day they won't be able to make a sound out of you either. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0005par0037	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Antalya MP Gökcen Özdoğan Enç, who wants to talk about problems and solutions in the fight against addiction. Here you are, Mr. Özdoğan Enç.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0006par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I find that he's taken an off-the-topic commitment to the fight against addiction and solutions. I salute you all. Drug addiction has become a problem in our country that threatens our citizens of all ages, as it is in the world. The addictive substance problem, which has many different aspects, such as social, economic, security, can only be solved by the cooperation of the parties of the problem. Precaution, decoupling and rehabilitation processes are the main ones. Turkey's Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction began operating as its first institutional structure in 1997, in order to carry out fight activities related to substance use and addiction, co-ordinating sides, sharing information. With the mandate of the prime minister's office in 2002, the Police General Directorate has been designated as a national contact point, depending on the head of the Anti-Trafficking and Organised Crimes Bureau. As of 2006, Turkey prepares and shares a drug report with the public every year. In 2015, he became the head of the Anti-Drug Agency and began his work. The fight against drugs is a general public health issue, which is not as common in Turkey as it is in other European countries, but must be taken precautions before it becomes the threat level. This is also a national security problem. The High Council for Anti-Drugs was formed on 13 November 2014 by the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the Ministry of National Education and Health. This board held its third meeting in April 2016. Between 2016-2018, the Anti-Drug Strategy Document and Action Plan were discussed. The example of the World Health Organization's Anti-drug Model, Strategy Document and Emergency Action Plan, which was implemented by the World Health Organization in 2015, is evidence of the importance of the board. There are 77 addiction treatment centers in our country. He serves 60 health departments, 5 private hospitals, 12 university-related. The total bed capacity is 919. We launched the AMATEM unit last month in the Aır Aksu compound at the Education and Research Hospital in Antalya. The AMATEM, which has 1,750 square metres of space, was planned as 30 beds, was also planned to allow the number of beds to be increased. However, our study of child, adolescent drug addiction treatment centers has also begun, and we will conclude as soon as possible. On this occasion, I would like to thank our Minister of Health, the Secretary of State, the members of Antalya, the parties, for constantly encouraging us to do so. The rehabilitation centers of our treated patients are essential to re-adjusting and participating in the active labor force, without decomposing the integrity of their treatment, without decomposing from social life. For this purpose, our Ministry of Health, Work and Social Security, Family and Social Policy joint model development projects are about to be concluded. Anthalya must be considered an example of a province because it is among the cities that are densely migratory. Public support is essential to boosting the anti-addictive activity; NGOs, mass communication tools, are essential factors in increasing the activity. With proper communication strategies, we can save future generations from addiction. This is not just the government's job, but the opposition parties, mass media, the press, are particularly important to focus on. And at this point, I, our Deputy Prime Minister, here, thank him for his concern as Chairman of the Council, for his determination. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0007par0054	Thank you, Mr. Selfborn Enç. Now, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the 15 lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Aydın, Mr. Boyraz, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Özdıdemir, Mr. Aydemir, Mr. Kayşoğlu, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Ilgezdi, Mr. Göker, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Star Bicer, Mr. Taşkın, Mr. Akin, Mr. Arıkın. Mr. Aydın, we'll start with you, please.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0008par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. We were wounded by a bullet fired at the Republican People's Party this weekend. We've also been tried to destroy the operation against the Republic newspaper. The bullet against Mr. Bulent Tezcan was undoubtedly shot at both our party and our Grand Assembly. So we have to take a common stance. The operation against the Republican daily is also aimed at freedom of the press, but towards our democracy and our republic. Freedom of media and expression is now clearly at its feet. From this point on, there's no turning back. The Republic of Turkey must be made clear that the Republic of Turkey is struggling in a major disaster. After the republic's opinion in Turkey, it is not a coincidence that a newspaper such as the secular republic and the Republic of the age of the Republic are also involved in the liquidation process with such an operation; it is the natural result of oppressive and reactionary policies. We can't put up with this. I say we all fight back. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0009par0065	Thank you. Mr. Boyraz...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0010par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. To choose, you have to understand, to understand, to compare. The comparison is based on wisdom. He called it Cemil Meric. In spite of the alternatives of this saintly nation, which had formed civilizations with his knowledge, he compared the AK PARTY, and a year before that, on November 1, 2015, he set his preference in a manner that would not leave any room for discussion. This choice is the choice of wisdom, innocence, and conscience. It is the choice of the nation to maintain the integrity of will and the purity of representation against those who try to register their right to sovereignty, unconditionally. It is a choice for him to distinguish between those whose heart is burning and those who do not burn, and those who ignore their own values, and those who practice words and those who do deeds. Once again, I give thanks to our nation for this choice in the sensitivity of the jeweler's scales, and I am proud and proud to be the future, not the ruler of our beloved nation.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0009par0070	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0011par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. The other day, our Vice-President, Aydın MP, we see and condemn the bullet that was fired on our Bulent Tezcan, a bullet that was fired on the parliamentary democracy. We'd like the Speaker to make a statement and condemn such an attack as this. After the coup attempt on July 15th, the citizens of this country were all together to avoid this coup, but we have seen that the AKP's Authority, today, knowingly implements its own coup attempt. We consider the operation against Cumhuriyet daily to be done with the right of public information and democracy. We want them to drop this app as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0012par0076	Thank you, Your Highness. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0013par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. I again condemn the traitorous attack on our Vice President, Aydın MP, Mr. Bulent Tezcan. The Republican daily, which was tried to be silenced by a morning raid yesterday, has been a newspaper that has been working for 90 years for the republic to be the basis of the constitution and state of secularism, the independence of the mind from puritanism, the religion of the mind in the light of the Ataturk revolution and its principles. The efforts to seize and silence the newspaper's authors with a claim without legal basis or credibility clearly violate the right to freedom of the press, universal values, information and the right of the public to know the facts. The operation launched on Cumhuriyet daily and its attempts to silence it must be abandoned immediately, and let us stop trying to destroy the country's basic institutional structures, the achievements and values of the republic, and bring our country into a darkness that we can't get out of. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0014par0084	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0015par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. The dark hands of those who wanted to take the country step by step to the dictatorship reached out to the Republic newspaper and its writers yesterday. Yesterday's accomplices are accusing the Turkish Republic of Turkey of being a journalist of the age of Cumhuriyet daily. While you were shamelessly holding dishes to this criminal organization, the legacy of Uður Mumcu's, İlhan Selçuk's, Turkan Saylan's, the Republic had made headlines that the Smileys were a terrorist organization. Fetullah Gülen. The eulogies of the Hoca Lord aren't a slanger, but Hikmet Çetinkaya, who has been fighting against this criminal organization for years, is he? Who are you kidding? The 75-year-old Engin you picked up yesterday did not bow to the coupgers on March 12th or on September 12th, do you think he'll bow to you? Tomorrow, she will be remembered as an Aydin Engin journalist, with her honorable posture, but you will be remembered with shame.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0016par0090	Thank you. Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0017par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Erzurum, such as Palandöken and Konaklı, has two excellent centers in the world's winter tourism destinization, and is on the way to becoming a world brand in this area. The transfer of the Winter Tourism Center to Erzurum Metropolitan Municipality and its administration in the local area are a modern concept and a first. Erzurum, a global address in winter tourism with the facilities earned by our President and by our government, also serves to promote our country with its history, nature, culture, faith, health tourism, and so on. In the presence of our great Parliament, I invite everyone to Erzurum, where the snow has been transformed from the snow into a blessing to a tourist value, to come to Erzurum for the coming winter season. I say and thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0018par0096	Thank you. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0019par0099	Thank you. I curse the attack on our Vice President, Mr. Bulent Tezcan. We know very well that the attacks against our party members were not a simple act of a criminal type with a few priors. If the presidency does not come, the country will be divided. As long as the forces behind these acts of infrastructure are not revealed, those who want the presidency and those who threaten division will remain under these provocations. Again, the operation against the Republic and the Republic of Turkey, which are the same age, is another version of the conspiracy cases of GERPs who want to destroy the Republic of Turkey. No one has any doubt that even if one Republican People's Party remains, today's schemers will end up just as they did that day. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0020par0104	Thank you. Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0021par0107	Mr. President, members of parliament, the attack against our Vice President, Brent Tezcan, is an attack on this Parliament, an attack on the parliamentary system. Mr. Tezcan is a friend of ours who continues to seek compromise with both the ruling party and the leaders of the opposition to become a state of law in Turkey; I strongly condemn the attack. The attack on the Republic newspaper is unacceptable. Cumhuriyet daily is the same age as Turkey. The daily Cumhuriyet is the voice of every people in Turkey. Today, lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party must remember that in the near future, perhaps they will also need the Republic because the Republic is a newspaper that has agreed to give everyone's opinion unless it involves the voice of everyone in Turkey, violence and hatred. The writers of this newspaper, named after Ataturk, must be released at once. I strongly condemn this attack on the writers of the newspaper. I want to shout from here that this has caused a great deal of damage to Turkey's future, democracy. Republicans, those who love the Republic, they have a different name, but their last name is the Republic.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0020par0110	Thank you. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0022par0113	Mr. President, I condemn the attack on our Vice President, Brent Tezcan. Although the congregation was published in the national Security Council reports that infiltrated the state in 2004, the AKP's vice presidents at the time called it a crow's laugh. Did the Republic deliver these tanks, these planes that dropped bombs on the people? Did the Republic give the land of the Parsel land to the Republic? Did the Republic send the Deputy Prime Minister to Pennsylvania to ask questions? Did the Republic make the headlines because of this longing? ▪ What did they want and not give? Did the Republic make a headline? You can't call the bodies "the terrorist organization." Did the Republic have a headline? The daily Republican newspaper, which has made the headline of the laughing terrorist group, is unfortunately under pressure, journalists are being arrested. You're mocking our minds. Don't make fun of us anymore.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0023par0117	Thank you. Mr. Illgezdi...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0024par0120	Thank you, Mayor. I condemn the attack on our Vice President, Mr. Bulent Tezcan. There are irregularities with the State of Emergency declared after the coup attempt on July 15th that do not search for September 12th. Yesterday's operation on Cumhuriyet daily is the clearest evidence of the government's desire to intimidate the opponents based on the coup attempt. Since its establishment, linking the price-paying Cumhuriyet daily to terrorist organizations is kept sane because it is the newspaper of the National War. Named after the Turkish Revolution, banned on March 12th, closed on September 12th. It's always been the target of reactionary terror, the most democratic martyred newspaper in the Republic. It is a newspaper of honorable, upright, courageous journalists, Ilhan Selçuks, Ali Sirmen, Uður Mumcus, Muammar Aksoys, Bahriye Trioks, Ahmet Taner Barracks. It's the newspaper of the proud, bright-faced people of this country, the workers, the oppressed, the others. It's the virtue of this country, the Republic, and we will break this darkness that you have created.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0025par0123	Thank you. Mr. Göker...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0026par0126	Mr. President, the target of the armed attack on our Vice President, Mr. Bulent Tezcan, after an armed attack on our president, is the republic, the People's Party of the Republic. Because the Republican and Republican People's Party is the biggest obstacle to the one-man dictatorship. But let it not be forgotten, and let it be known that no one and no one's evil heart will be able to intimidate us in this way. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0025par0128	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0027par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I strongly condemn the attack against our Vice-President, Aydın MP, Mr. Bulent Tezcan. Honourable MPs, Deputy Prime Minister; 80 villages in Şanlıurfa Province of Şanlıurfa district have road problems. Aslıçayir, Taşlı, Çılkık, Akyurt villages have not yet been established; Şanlıurfa, because there is no Internet in central and districts; there is no processing in hospitals, our citizen cannot take his medicine from the pharmacy, he cannot be processed in the court, he cannot be processed in municipalities, he can't be processed in land register managers. At the same time, the classes at Raif Mumcu Elementary School in the Çedrık village of Siverek district began for 100 people, without teachers, without education. In that sense, the Şanliurfa are victims. I'd like the government to invest a little. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0028par0136	Mr. Biceter...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0029par0138	Because he opened the state staff to the congregation on the way of the imam, because he had made money at the Turkish Olympics, because he had given them whatever they wanted, you had arrested Engin Aydın for selling Ankara to you because his brother had struck you, didn't you? Otherwise you wouldn't be so incoherent, so reckless, so lawless! Besides, you're not dictators; if you were dictators, would you close 66 news agencies and newspapers, 18 TVs, 23 radios, 15 magazines! Would there be only one day and Universal newspapers left to defend the public's right to know, to gain freedom and secularity! The endurance is greater than the palace. You will not be able to deliver us, we will cross the pitch darkness together. Would they publish! Yes, the anniversary of political Islamist fascism is November 1st. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0030par0142	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0031par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. I beg God's mercy to all our martyrs and martyrs in the conflict against separatist terrorists in Hakkari Dağlıca, and to our veterans for immediate healing. I curse the vile and treacherous terrorists. Again, the CHP Vice President and Aydın MP, who were injured in an armed attack, condemn the attack on Mr. Bulent Tezcan, and ask for immediate healing. Congressmans, today is November 1, 2016. A year ago today, the EC PARTY was elected as the 1st party with 49.5 per cent of the support of the saintly nation in its 5th general election. In all the elections he's been in, the biggest share of the success of our country's nation, the EC PARTY, no doubt, belongs to our founder leader and natural leader, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President. On the occasion of the 1st anniversary of the November 1st election, may we be eternally grateful to God for his success. I give thanks and thanks to our beloved nation who have always supported us, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0032par0149	Thank you. Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0033par0152	The State of State of Emergency, democracy, freedoms and the state of law have been turned into a war with the fight against it. Those who go to every opposing institution and individual with an OPEC weapon will not be able to convince anyone that they have struggled with it in the process. The Republic, who was only a moral journalist without compromising its opposition, its principles, its media morality, so it was their goal when you fought with it while it was a life-threatening embrace. If this congregation, which you planned to go to the same range, which you had wet in the same rain, had succeeded in the low blow attempt, would have done so again, it would have silenced all opposition and entered the construction of a single voiced Turkey. You are now serving the purpose of your companion, the Fethullah Congregation, against the Republic, the Republic, the Parliamentary democracy and freedoms.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0032par0154	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0034par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I strongly condemn the attack on our Vice President, Mr. Bulent Tezcan, and what has been done to the Republican daily by being an opportunist of the coup. Unfortunately, he's running a government that's trying to align the country by threatening people. Sometimes there are white Toros in the square, who say, "If we don't come, there will be chaos if you don't give 400 MPs." The mentality that says, "If the presidency doesn't come now, the country will be divided." Mr. Prime Minister should know that those who have watched terrorist organizations plant bombs on cities have failed to divide this country by allowing its army to be framed and GERPs to enter the cosmic room of the state. He couldn't even divide this country by the people of Turkey who used to call it "the Turkish people" and always try to divide it into ethnic identities. Mr. Prime Minister, fear not, the presidency is divisive, and we will never allow the presidency to divide this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0035par0161	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm going to make a pledge to the members of the group who are now demanding a word. The group vice president's speech time is two minutes. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0036par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. We wish our condolences to the Republican People's Party Aydın MP and Vice President of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Bulent Tezcan, who was injured in an armed attack in Aydın last Saturday, and we strongly condemn this offensive attack. In our society, we follow with concern that the idea of seeing violence as an individual, political, or method for any reason has become widespread. We expect the attackers and organisers to be handed over to the judiciary and sentenced to the appropriate punishment. One of the dire examples of violence is violence directed at the politician. It is unacceptable for any person or politician to be violent because of their thoughts and opinions. We hereby re-criminate the attack against Mr. Tezcan, convey to him once again our wishes as the National Party for Action, and ask him to return to us as soon as possible, to carry out his work. Dear lawmakers, one of the great poets of Turkish literature, John Kemal Beyatlı, was sent to eternity today fifty-eight years ago, and we remember him with mercy. John Kemal, who stitched Turkish civilization, art and aesthetics in his verses, expressed the glorious pages of Turkish history and our national identity very strongly in his poems. It's my mother's milk in my mouth. In her wonderful Turkish language, she made us run through our geography, live in national excitement. I remember John Kemal, the late John Kemal, with the words of the lost city of Skopje, which he wrote about the city where he was born: *Süsküp is the name of the Thunder Whiteidid Khan, His name is the son of the Conqueror. He was our city with the domes. It was ours alone, with face and soul. In Skopje's Shar Mountain, it was the capital of Bursa. It was a tulip garden, your clean blood spilled. Three glorious battle's guns hung on the throne Shining tears in the mornings of the feast. Before I entered the dawning age of life, We buried my mother in the ground in the fall. The tomb of Isfa Bey....which was opened in the conquest.. like the Hereafter. Why today when we once had our own home Skopje isn't ours? I've heard it, drink it. A city lost in my heart! The satran left by separation is deep in your skin! If it takes too long, if it takes too many years, Even if you don't have us, we still have you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0037par0192	Thank you. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0038par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. An armed attack on our vice president, Mr. Bulent Tezcan, is not an ordinary incident. In an environment where armed arms are encouraged and protected in Turkey, we expect the forces behind these attacks to be fully revealed, especially to Republican People's Party leaders in recent days. In an environment where arms have been encouraged, the 12th article of the last decree 676 was referred to as "Build arms." The permit for the gun has been issued under the decree of the law, which will again be issued to those who have been revoked with a fine of 3,000 lira. What is the purpose of this, where is Turkey going? It is impossible to understand that the government should take very serious measures in these matters, but it is not possible to encourage arms with an unbridled attitude. We are behind the forces behind the attack against Bkent Tezcan, and they too -- everyone should know that the Republic's People's Party will be breathing down their necks. Secondly, Cumhuriyet daily: What is the reason for conducting an investigation, detaining and investigating the daily Cumhuriyet, who has taken a full stand against Fetullah Smiley and all terrorist organizations throughout his life? What is the purpose of power or prosecution in such a picture? The state of emergency is not illegal, but the state of emergency has a law. From now on, wherever you look, Turkey is moving fast towards a wall, out of its way, out of its orbit. Is this the way to fight a man? Those who are fighting the enemy are still inside, and the members are still at work. We don't accept such a painting, Mr. President. We demand that this attack on Cumhuriyet daily be ended immediately and that journalists in custody be released. Again today, Mr. President, November 1st. The reign was lifted on 1 November 1922. Now, to the creation of new reigns...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0039par0203	I'll give you an extension, Mr. Sky. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0038par0205	Everyone must know that the reign has been lifted in an environment of understanding so that new presidents can be formed, instead of the reign that was lifted on 1 November 1922. We will not parade the creation of new reigns as the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0039par0206	Thank you. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0040par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, political genocide operations against our party, our components, the democracy and peacekeepers in Turkey -- which the palace-AKP regime cannot fight in democratic political ways -- continue at a very reckless point. In this scope, our Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality co-chairs Firat Anlı and Gültan Kışanak, again our 24th-century Batman MP, and in this case Ayla Akat Akat Atat, who is KJA's term spokesman, is being held as a free, unlawful, and without grounds as a political hostage, I would like to say that we find this process unacceptable, and that the palace-AKP regime is accelerating its own political end with these practices. I'd like to express once again our feelings of solidarity and support with all our friends, especially our female friends, who have been detained during this process, arrested and subjected to any inhumane treatment in the political hostage position. Today, in Mardin, our Democratic Regional Party co-chairs and almost all of our district executives have been taken into custody as part of these political genocide operations, and are being held hostage again. As I said, these operations will only contribute to a process that will result in the regime's self-preparation, but other than that, I want to say that it will do no good at the point of breaking our will and our will. Dear President, today is November 1st World Kobani Day, and we salute once again the resistance of all the Middle Eastern people of Kobani against the violent, barbaric ISIS gangs, in the name of all humanity.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0041par0216	I'll give you an extension, Mr. Baluken. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0040par0218	Kobani resistance and Kobani victory are a very good sign of what victory can come to the most barbaric gangs, the most fascist governments, the most authoritarian understandings, the feeling, the determination, the determination to fight. In this respect, I would like to stress that it is important for all peoples of Turkey and all Middle Eastern peoples to raise the fight by looking at the victory of Kobani these days when pessimism is being dominated. On the other hand, many media and publishing institutions, including DIHA, JINHA, Azadiya Welat, were shut down along with the last KHK. Yesterday's raid on the Republic newspaper is clearly a hate crime. It is a great shame for this country that journalists, writers, are taken into custody in such a manner, held hostage in such a way as this, with false claims. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I finish now, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0042par0222	I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0040par0223	If you do, I'd like to extend my condolences on Mr. Tezcan. It's important.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0042par0224	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0040par0225	We express once again our feelings of solidarity and support with all media-release institutions that have been closed during this period, especially the Cumhuriyet daily. We also strongly condemn the armed attack on Republican People's Party Vice-President Aydın MP Mr. Bulent Tezcan. We consider the attack against Mr. Tezcan, an attack on the entire Turkish democracy, on democratic politics. We regret not having any statement from the chairman of this House in an environment where an armed attack was carried out on a member of parliament. Even a canary-loving association, if its members were attacked by such an attack, would make a statement at the presidential level, at the level of leadership, but even during the time of an armed attack on an MP in this House, unfortunately, they were only able to monitor them. I'd like to point out that we find this attitude as dangerous as the attack.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0043par0228	Thank you. Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0044par0231	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, we are strongly and with hatred condemning the attack on Mr. Bulent Tezcan, Vice President of the Republican People's Party, who was attacked with an armed attack last weekend. We see this as an attack on all Turkish politics, not as an attack on Mr. Tezcan. We wish Mr. Tezcan well, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, and wish for immediate healing. Again, we condemn our AK PARTI Mardin Kızıltepe district agency with violence and hatred for a low-life attack by PKK terror organization. It's one of the most important indicators that the terrorist organization is uncomfortable enough to attack the county agencies, the activities of people in politics and politics. I'd like to express from here that we will fight the PKK terrorist organization, the separatist terrorist organizations, and that we will fight until the end of the day to the end, with the PKK terror organization that is trying to occupy our country by parallel construction in our country. Mr. Prime Minister has made a statement today at the AK PARTY group meeting. On August 18, 2016, we find that an arrangement, an operation, an operation, came into existence -- a conflict between former partners and new partners -- was created as a result of a complaint by MASAK as a result of a conflict between those who run the newspaper and those who run it. In the meantime, the judiciary has taken over this issue, and the judgment will be finalized as soon as possible. In this framework, in research, in listening, if you praise the terrorist organization, help them, give them any support...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0045par0236	I'll give you an extension, Mr. Elitaş. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0044par0238	...in question, it will surely continue to be judged. In this process, the actions of the judiciary must be patiently, patiently, because the outcome will likely be concluded by the judiciary as soon as possible. Three of our officers have been injured in an armed, traitorous, low-down attack on Mardin Kızıltepe district. And I wish you all the best for the three cops who got hurt. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0046par0241	Thank you. And we, Mr. Bulent Tezcan, wish you well as the Court, and we move on to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The terrorist attack in İstanbul Sultanahmet Square on 12 January 2016 -- 11 people lost their lives, 15 others were injured -- was announced by government spokesman Mr. Numanürmiş, who was born in 1988 and a Syrian national, but later international media reported that the attacker was Saudi Arabia national. The terrorist attack in Istanbul is the final link in a series of attacks aimed at Turkey by a live bomb, not by itself. The live bombings in Diyarbakir, Suruç, Ankara and finally Istanbul have revealed that our country is facing a new and major threat of terrorism. While the organisational connection to the attack in Istanbul Sultanahmet has not yet been established, the people responsible for the killings of Diyarbakır, Suruç and Ankara are members of the global killing organization ISIS, which shows that this new terrorist attack we face is the result of the government's wrong Middle Eastern policy. The fact that our country has been subjected to massive attacks in the same way over and over again points to a major intelligence weakness. With respect to the need to open Parliamental research under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to establish the perpetrators and political responsible for the attacks that have been carried out so far, in order to ensure that such attacks will not take place. [[Manisa]] [[Malatya]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Oğuz Kaan Salcı [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Sakarya]] [[Mughle]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] 18) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] 19) Ahmet Tuncay Özkan [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Slap]] [[Army]] 23) Bulent Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Sivas]] [[Sinop]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In 15/10/1940, according to Agriculture Sales Co-operatives Act 2834, Adana, Ceeyhan and Tarsus were created by 275 partners in the Agricultural Sales Cooperatives. Until the 1990s, it was a working area for the workers of Çukurova, as much as it contributed to farmers with its silk, weaving, paint, oil, sawsh businesses. On 30/4/1985, Law No. 3186 was adopted as a basis and merged with the Peanut Agricultural Sales Association on 1/7/1989. The agency's operating area was included in a logistical cotton and soybean, as well as the title "Cukurova Pamuk, Peanuts and Oiled Seeds Association of Agriculture Cooperatives." On 16 June 2000, the new Agricultural Sales Co-operative and Associations of 4572 became autonomous. On May 20, 2001, the initiative was adopted by the General Assembly under Law 4572. IN a field covered by 10 provinces, 34 cooperatives serve about 36,064 manufacturers. He included sunflowers from the 2004-05 campaign, and canola from the 2006-2007 campaign. There is an oil factory located in Ceyhan on the 19th km of Adana-Mersin, and an oil factory located in Ceyhan. The facilities that are still active are: The Adana Factory (centre), Ceyhan, Misis, Mihmandar, Reyhanlı and Yeshli, has six Sawgı facilities. Adıyaman, Diyarbakır, Kurıkhan, Nusaybin, Mihmandar Co-operatives have four facilities. The Central Oil Factory and Ceyhan Oil Factory are also operating in connection with this factory. Fibers, weavings, paint factories have been disabled. After 1990, I move that the process be examined and the sale of sold and closed factories be opened under the Constitution's 98th and Internal Charter 104th and 105th Articles. With all due respect. 4/1/2016 1) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Slap]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] 5) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] 11) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Army]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Hatay]] [[Edirne]] [[Denizli]] [[Aydın]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] In rental announcements from the General Directorate of the Union, the facilities, buildings, warehouses, porches, and oil factories are leased within mile 19 over the road to Mersin, zero to the road to Adana D400, a new airport that is being built 10km away. The areas for rent are open to the board in an area of 97,000 square meters, with an average capacity to process 200 tonnes of fat seed on average, a 2,500 square metres of concrete depository, a closed warehouse of 15,000 square metres of concrete, a closed depository of 9,900 square metres of concrete, an administrative vault of 2000 square meters per square meter, a public presentation of 6000 square feet per square metre, a new level of administrative building, a 2,000 square metre, on a D400 land road, an open porch of 10,000 square feet per square meter, a mile [4,550 square m], a flat. Similar practices have never been benefited before. The process of closing factories, rentals and sales is required. In this context, the institution's benefits and losses must be exposed and the understanding of how to eliminate management problems by destroying facilities must be considered. In addition to the importance of co-operativeism in our country, it is not in line with the purpose of co-operativeism to modernise the cotton and other products that have been operating for many years, instead of the factories that will operate. For years, the opening of parliamentary research will be useful for partners and manufacturers who have consumed important businesses such as fibers, dyes, and destroyed trillion-dollar investments. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the massacres carried out by ISIS structures and ISIS live bombs, which may have been massacred by entering Turkey/or Turkey, and to take measures and map the way back from foreign policy bankruptcy, we offer the Constitution's requirements for the opening of Parliament investigation under Articles 98th, Article 104th and 105th of the Civil Code. The Turkish AKP government's foreign policy capsized with the start of the Arab Spring and Syrian civil war. Turkey's geography has turned into the largest swamp in the Middle East, as a result of policies in foreign policy that operate not in strategy, but in the course of term interests, not in principles, but in benefit. The Kurdish people, who need strategic partnership with Turkey's sociological and political dynamics and neighbouring borders, are positioned in a opposing position by AKP power. The anti-Kurdish understanding of foreign policy has distributed AKP power to a place where all the world's forces are fighting gangs are being dealt with. The unprincipled and utilitarian foreign policy strategy of the AKP's power has lost to Turkey as well as to its own. Although this is a short-lived approach by a narrow ruling elite, it turns into a black hole in which all peoples will lose in the middle and long term. As a result of this rough summing up, the AKP's power has been reduced to an ineffective and unauthorized actor in the Middle East and the Arab Peninsula. This has evolved to a point that has long been subject to the words of the eunuchs, Israel, which has turned to an alliance with the Israelites, which is what he calls the "commonist" in Egypt, and has tightened the ranks with what he calls the "sysi" in Egypt. The situation is not only that, but let's take it from ISIS and the oil trade to the center of the complex network of relations where logistics and employees are met from the borders of Turkey. As a result of the AKP foreign policy adopted by all regional and global forces, Turkey's cities have become the area of many ISIS attacks that are controlled or not controlled by security institutions. As a matter of fact, at first glance, this should be made clear, even though the breach, negligence, and intent of security may show, which is also the result of the AKP's wrong foreign policy. At the same time, political problems, especially the Kurdish issue, have been made the basis for the absence of democratic and liberal solutions. There were massacres in Diyarbakır, Suruç on July 20th, Ankara on October 10th and finally on January 12, 2016 in İstanbul Sultanahmet. The public opinion of the debate of which such dark events have been politically beneficial to actors will once again be revealed when the political demands of the social populations involved in the attack will be evaluated. One of the things we need to look at here is the possibility of a new attack by organizations such as ISIS from which political centers are encouraged and created by organizational structures. After the massacres in Diyarbakır, Suruç, Ankara and Istanbul, the gang group called ISİSİD has seen a political and judicial will: "All massacres have been imposed on the broadcast ban, the confidentiality order has been imposed on the files, the request for parliamentary investigations discussed at the TBMM has been rejected by AKP MPs." There was no active fight against ISIS in Turkey, and the international coalition was not given enough support. After all the massacres of ISIS, the President did not mention the name of ISIS once. In addition, the Prime Minister himself described the ISIS as an angry group of young people. Again, the Prime Minister has stated that they can't arrest ISIS live bombs before they commit a massacre. It is well known that the group of gangs known as INDISTINCT is a useful gang as a structure. Today, this structure, which is exempted from operations, allowed to cross borders and operate to fuel ethnic, religious distinctions in Turkey, carries water in the interests of some political actors, but a large number of ISIS cells organised in the country pose a great danger to Turkey's people and the country's future, as predicted. In this scope, we demand a parliamentary inquiry into Turkey's/or Turkey in order to establish a road map of the massacres carried out by ISIS structures and ISIS-based suicides, measures taken, and the return from foreign policy bankruptcy. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The European Parliament (EP) Action Unit will organise a parliamentary conference on non-discrimination of disabled persons in the European Union's Enlargement Area on 28-29 November 2016 in Brussels, the capital of Belgium. It is announced that a delegation representing the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will attend the meeting on the matter of 28/3/1990 and shall be presented to the General Assembly under the 9th Article of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The International Institute of Justice and Law (IIJ) and the European Commission will organise the development of the role of MPs in the Building of Anti-Terrorism Systems in Malta's capital, Valletta, on 8-9 November 2016. The issue of accession to the study is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Under Article 4 of the 3620 Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, the establishment of a friendship group between the Russian Federation and the Chad Republic and the Turkish Grand National Assembly is subject to the approval of the General Assembly. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to Article 37 of the Civil Code, 2/1038), I am required to take my main Law Proposal (2/1038) directly into the agenda of the General Assembly. Yours truly. 27/10/2016 Mr. Orhan Sarıbal will now speak as the bidder. Here you go, Saribal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0047par0428	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, first of all, we condemn the raid and detention of the Cumhuriyet daily and the attack on our Vice President Bulent Tezcan. We want to live together in a democratic country. Once again, we express our opposition to all kinds of blows and dictatorships. An ashram day should be considered a holiday. As it is known, the Hijri 1 Muharrem was left hungry and thirsty for ten days, including Imam Hussein, the grandson of our Prophet, who was surrounded in the Kerbela desert in 61, and the majority of his own household, the family dynasty and its followers, who were the descendants of our Prophet. After all, on the 10th day of the month of battle, Imam Hussein was brutally murdered along with all his relatives until he reached his child who was sucking milk in the fire. In this brutal massacre, 72 of the people of the Prophet's household, the members of his household, and his followers, were martyred. This event has been the bleeding wound of all mankind for centuries. Only the Imam Xenelabidin, who is lying in a sick bed, survived the household. And the seed of our prophet, Imam Zeynep, continued. Those who massacred in the name of Islamic religion, the descendants of Muhammad the Holy One, after the massacre, have come out of the human race long enough to walk naked on the streets of Damascus on camels. Imam Hussein's struggle in Kerbala is a struggle to bow or stand up to the oppressor. This is the struggle for not surrendering to injustice, injustice, tyranny, even if it ends in death. This is the legacy that Imam Hussein gave his life in Kerbala. It is our duty to uphold this heritage and to do its due. This event has been a decisive element in the Alevi faith and worship. After the Kerbala massacre, the heads of Imam Hussein and those who were martyrs with him were separated from their bodies, the clothes on the martyrs were looted, and the headsless bodies were crushed under the feet of the horses, and the torture continued. On the 11th day of Muharrem, because the Yazit army was still in Kufe, the headless bodies of the martyrs were not buried, but were buried on the 12th day of the month of Muharrem, because they feared the new massacres of the Yazeid army. Muharrem month is one of the sacred months mentioned in the Qur'an. Even in the days of Ignorance, there was no war on this month, and in such a month, the people of Muhammad was martyred under the mask of religion. From that day to this day, the Alevis, who were bound by the holy relics, who were in my possession, mourn the mourning of Kerbala until this day. On the 13th day of Muharremin, as well as on the 13th day of Kerbela, the martyrs of Kerbela, who were killed without water by the army of Yazeit, are cooked ashram in the souls of the martyrs of Kerbela, who were saved from Imam Hussein, who were given the Qur'an's descendants, who were sacrificed and distributed in the hope that the people of the Prophet would continue forever. It is very important that all family members are together on this day when the soups are cooked, slaughtered, and distributed, and visited by the members of the households, the shepherds, the rices, and the family elders. On the 13th day of the month of battle, which is the important day of the Alevi faith, it is a requirement of the Constitution's freedom of faith and equality that all Alevis, as well as their faith, live freely on the 13th day of the month of battle. Therefore, the 13th day of the month of battle must be vacationed. It's not the government's business how people believe in what they believe and how they live their beliefs. The government's job is to ensure that its beliefs are free and secure, no distinction between citizens. In this sense, it would never be acceptable for anyone who ignores the Alevi and Alevi, who interprets Islam based on their own shallow thinking and evaluates Alevi, who spends billions of dollars in taxes given by citizens and asks for an opinion from the President of Diet Affairs, who has no service for Alevi citizens. When asked about a view of a belief, the only one who has a say in it is the one who has a say in it. This, however, comes as a very intense request from our citizens of Alevi. Given the Alevi population, which is 25 percent of our country's population, it is clear that this demand has been delayed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I have a moment's request from you, with all due respect.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0048par0436	What do we do?
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0049par0438	Sure, sure, sure.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0048par0439	All right, let's give you an extra minute. Please, complete.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0050par0441	For example, even though the Muslim population of the Republic of Crimea, which joined Russia in the referendum after declaring its independence, as of October 2014, was 13 per cent, it was considered a religious holiday on the first day of the Memorial Day and on the first day of Ramadan Day, along with the Orthodox Easter and Teslis days. It is wise and proper to consider the religious days of 25,000 Jews and 320 thousand Christian citizens in our country allowed. It is a duty to respect human rights that the 13th day of the battle, when our Alevi citizens cook their ashram and slaughter their victims in order to live their beliefs freely, is accepted as an official holiday in the same way. In fact, today, the problems our Alevi citizens face with their beliefs are the problems of our true religious Sunni citizens, who truly believe in them, who do not use their faith for anything. With this offer, Alevi is the democratic, secularist of our citizens who make up 25 percent of the population of our country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and in the nature of the state of social law, it is intended to make their beliefs more comfortable. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0051par0447	Thank you. On behalf of a member of parliament, Sivas MP Ali Akyıldız will speak. Here you are, Mr. White Star.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0052par0451	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, the very dear workers of our press and Congress, my esteemed citizens who are watching us on screen, I salute you all with my most heartfelt love, respect, and conversation. Before I speak, Mr. Vice President, I condemn the vicious and ugly attack on our vice president, Bulent Tezcan. This attack is not only an attack on the person of Bkent Tezcan, and on the Republican People's Party, it is also an attack on the Turkish Grand National Assembly, where the will of the people is represented. I also think that the detention of newspaper managers and writers after the raid on Cumhuriyet daily yesterday is a crime against freedom of the press in our country. The Republican newspaper, however, is a newspaper that strives to adopt the principle of secularism as a society, from May 7, 1924 to the enlightenment of the republic's Ataturk revolution and principles, for the independence of the mind from bigotry, science from religion. The daily Republican newspaper has never gone beyond the line of journalism to protect the indispensable state of secular, democratic and social law and human rights, and has defended democracy in any way. That's why I'm condemning the attack on the Republican newspaper, the pressure again. Dear lawmakers, I said something in my speech here on the day of 10 Muharrem Kerbela days of mourning, it's a symbol, wherever humanity is persecuted in the world, it's Kerbala. But now, since we have not learned from these Kerbelas, the Kerbalas continue today. Today there are many Kerbalas around us, both in our country and in our country. The death of the scholars is the death of the worlds. Muhammad Olcaytu, a friend of the great Mongolian monarch, begins to weep in tears over the martyrdom of Baba Barak. They ask, O ruler, why do you cry so much as a hero who has seen so much war and has lost so many men? He answers: "I have not called Barak Baba, but he has already found what he is looking for, and I am crying because the world I live in is deprived of a parent like him. " Well, here we Alevis weep because the world we live in is deprived of light like Imam Hussein. We cry for light to be extinguished and darkness to rule. We cry that those lights won't come. The lost are human values, they have already accepted the martyrship knowingly and willingly, and it is humanity who loses. We're crying to that lost humanity. But what is death to them? We ask forgiveness for the face of all the martyrs, for the face of our tears. Tears are mercy, tears are surrender. And the tears of Allah's pleasure will return to him as a mercy. On the testimony of Imam Hussein, his father, Imam Zeynep, was able to sustain the love of his people only with tears because the house was always surrounded and forbidden to speak. Those who visited him could only deal with Imam Zeynep with tears. It is said that one who strays from the way, İmam Imam Xenelabidin approaches and asks the way: "O dear soul, I am a stranger, help me, help me, guide me. First they gave him water, then they slaughtered him. They slaughtered my father without giving him water. He says, "Who is your father? The mercy of all the nations is the grandson of Muhammad Mustafa. Now there have been two people who shed tears, and for once that stranger has given him his whole life, by not leaving the land of Imam Zeynep. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm completing the report.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0053par0461	In this chapter where the 37th article is discussed, the first speaker, Mr. Saribal, was given a minute. Let's make it even. Let's just leave this addition here for a minute, and it'll be over. Here you go. I'll give it to you for a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0054par0464	Thank you. And Imam Zeynep is of my own soul, who prays with tears, saying, "Don't spare me your divine mercy, give me your help, give me your blessing." Those who don't know how to shed tears don't have love and devotion. The proof of love without hypocrisy is tears. Confucius says: "If the apple is not perfect without carving, the person will not mature without suffering. " Yes, if the pain is the pain of Imam Hussein, and the pain is the pain of the people, then the Flames will not only weep, but the whole world will cry. Every man with a conscience in his heart cries, just as we weep. Dear lawmakers, this is a very, very important proposal from my dear fellow MP about the release of the 13th day of the month of combat. On the 13th day, about... over 20 million Alevis living in this country, I care about this bill in order for them to slaughter their victims, perform their meetings, and cook their soups, and I think you'll vote, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit01spe0055par0469	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger, and I'd like to invite the members of the group to meet.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0055par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 14th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. According to the decision taken, we move to the special agenda's part of the agenda. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, we are starting talks with Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken and Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel regarding the opening of a gene for Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ (11/13) on the charge that he could not prevent right violations of rights carried out after the July 15 coup attempt. Government? He's in position. I'm not having the motion re-readed because it was printed and distributed earlier and was read in the 11th Union of the General Assembly, dated 25/10/2016. Members of parliament, under Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a prime minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. Now, I read the names of the members who have been mentioned: İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir will speak, Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu will speak on behalf of the People's Party Group, Çanakkale MP Muharrem Men will speak on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Kastamon MP Haklı will speak on behalf of the People's Party. Come in, Mr. Sky, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0056par0015	Mr. President, there's been some trouble with an application of the Speakership. I'd like to record this and bring it to your attention. A letter of Parliamentary Presidency on the electronic distribution of legislative documents under the Free Parliament Project also reached our Parliamentary Group. We, our Parliamentary Group, have announced our reservations on this matter in an answer to the Parliamentary Presidency. The following is: The Parliamentary Project of Non-Registered Parliament shall have an attitude in contrast to the provisions set out in our Civil Code. The 42nd and 51st Articles of our Civil Charter are described as: The 42nd Article states that the report of the Commission is published and distributed to lawmakers, and 51 states that the meetings of the Assembly are distributed and added to the minutes of the assembly. Now, there's a ranking on October 22nd for today's session, but it's being sent to our MPs electronically on October 24th.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0055par0018	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0056par0019	The number of lines should be the same day as the distribution, but the number of lines should be taken October 22nd, October 24th, when it is sent to MPs electronically. In addition, some MPs' e-mail addresses are full, so that mail has not been reached. We are facing such a serious problem. The Article 42 of our Civil Code is particularly concerned with the suppression of reports and distribution of them to lawmakers. Returning to this practice is useful for preventing many future setbacks. Of course, let's take advantage of the technology, but it's been seen recently with such inconveniences. We'd like to make this a decision, please, as Speaker of the House, and give you our request to ensure the continuation of the old practice. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0057par0022	Thank you, thank you. Now, we begin negotiations. İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioğlu Demir will speak as the host of the motion. Your time is ten minutes. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0058par0031	Mr. President, our dear people, our dear people, we've asked that the justice minister, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, be opened a geneor for the violation of universal rights, especially the absence of law, injustices, justice, torture and abuse of the Constitution, and I've made a promise to discuss it. As suggested in our motion, government practices, which began before the State of Emergency and was speeding with the State of Emergency, have turned into a regime of abuse and coup, targeting all parties who oppose the AKP government. As we've expressed many times here, what would have been done if the coup attempt had happened on July 15th, was carried out by the government after July 15th. The State of Emergency Act, which authorises the State of Emergency declaration, is even in violation of the Constitution. Clearly, the current irregularities have left the country behind even the Constitution of 1982. None of the state-of-the-art decrees are primarily the State of Emergency decrees. The provisions of the decree are out of state of emergency, provisions that are constantly overstepping its authority, changing the fundamental laws are being issued. The torture has come back, and clearly the torture has returned for everyone. You have no right to do that. He was one of the registered claims of even victims who had been operated on by torture. These independent delegations, which are violations of human rights, have been unable to observe, and the Minister of Justice has not made a satisfactory public statement on the matter. In the past three months, 3,456 judges and prosecutors, including members of the Supreme Court, HSYK, Supreme Court and Prosecutors, have been suspended and 632 judicial members have been arrested. In addition, thousands of public officials who are not related to the parallel structure have been suspended from their duties. The number reaches about 120,000 in the last three and a half months. More than 10,000 civil servants have been discharged with the latest KHK. In all these suspensions, public officials' defenses have been violated, a universal right to defend themselves. Since modern crime definition and criminal law have been involved, the principle of personality of the people involved as an indispensable principle has also been violated in this process. But the personality of crimes has been brought up for some people, even though Turkey has been violated. When the 11 September investigation into the King of Saudi Arabia was announced that an investigation into 9/11 attacks would be launched in the United States, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan spoke of the principle of the individuality of the crimes. The reputation and rights protection of citizens of this country are not really at stake as much as the King of Saudi Arabia. Today, the 75-year-old Engin, who has been working for years and has done nothing but journalism, cannot be released in the same way as the personality of the criminals, or the ban on torture. The patient, Aydın Engin, is in custody today, and we can't hear a word of this from the Minister of Justice, who needs justice. What are the sentences we've heard? The courts are independent, the independent judiciary can't be interfered with. Courts are not independent, there is no fair trial. But you're doing it for the people you want to do it for, but in the same way, one day when this happens to you, we'll be the ones who defend it again, I assure you. The Minister of Justice, who is responsible for all the irregularities listed in the first hand, has also been busy establishing operational regimes related to Turkey and imposed unconstitutionalism, as it has not fulfilled its duty to address these unlawfulities. Isn't there a final presidential situation in Bizitihi's own statement? Call it as much as you like. He has committed a public act of constitutional crime, a violation of the Constitution. Yes, as well as these illegalities, another law is being enforced: hostage law, extortion law. Universal rights, such as life, safety, freedom of movement, innocence, are also ignored, and the principle of individuality of crimes, which has nothing to do with it, are still being taken into custody by those who appear to be suspected as criminals or suspects, relatives of wanted people; his mother-in-law, an elderly person is being detained, his wife is being taken into custody, and his wife is being put under pressure on families. In the same way, the pressure on our party continues as it did before the coup attempt. To give an example of the pressures and illegalities that all of which are impossible to sequence, our MPs are still unable to make visits to prisons. We're the trustees of the people in prisons, and we have to identify rights violations everywhere. There's no way he's a congressman who can't go to prison to visit. I can't go to prisons today as a deputy while I've been a lawyer for 30 years, and the Minister of Justice is responsible. Do you guys know what the answer to this case is? There are high-security prisons. We don't give you permission for your safety. You can't even provide security in prisons. For your own safety. What does that mean? During the visit, there is a risk of meeting other prisoners and prisoners. • Are these people plagues? What risk does it pose when we face other prisoners and prisoners? We have to visit prisons there and identify human rights violations, and the Department of Justice has to allow that. In fact, even this permit procedure must be completely eliminated. The MP is a representative of the people, he doesn't have to ask permission from anyone, but he can get permission from people who choose him. I'd like to take a look at the last Bill of Law 676. Three lawyers have been restricted to prosecutions under the organisation's operation. It's up to whom to limit lawyers, limit lawyers' right to defend themselves. Such an application is out of the question. Ten lawyers will defend you, or 20 lawyers will. The right of lawyers to stand trial is also a violation of clients' rights, not to defend their rights. In the same way, the lawyer, who has been charged with prosecution or investigation under the charges against terrorism and constitutional order, has been banned from the prosecution of the accused or the suspect. Friends, almost all left, socialist, opposing lawyers are subject to investigation. That means no lawyer who's under investigation is gonna be able to be a lawyer today. The court will decide not to listen if the witness or the witness finds the intention to extend the trial, while they are present. There's no such verdict, it's contempt of criminal justice. It can be decided in the absence of the defendant who left the trial without an alibi. These are really the things that show that there is no judicial independence and that there is no independent judgment. The name of the village ranger is changed to the country's security guard, which opens the way for armed arms by order of the law and by moving to city centers. Is this how you're going to get justice, Mr. Attorney General? Now, you're going to give justice to cities, villages with guns, not the courts? The attorneys of the Cumhuriyet daily, which I want to name, are in custody today as well as Bkent Utku and Mustafa Kemal Güngör, who have been doing nothing but being a lawyer for years. In the same way, I demand that they be released immediately. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0059par0048	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Adana MP, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş will speak. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0060par0052	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, we're going to express our views on the geneorization of Mr. Attorney General on behalf of our group. Before we go into our views on his client, Mr. Prime Minister made a statement at the group meeting today regarding our genesor, first I'd like to share it with you. Mr. Prime Minister says that such serious matters should no longer be used as a means of control, not as a means of obstruction, but as a serious business. In the old days, people held their breath and waited for the result, and now, they lick it, and they lick the gene. Now, no one cares what comes or goes. Yeah, well, it's been five months, and it didn't happen to the fried chicken that happened to us. A question of what? July 15th? The people answered him. God is on our side, and let there be no enemies. Now, I really don't know where to hold it.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0061par0056	I don't think you should hold him anywhere.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0060par0057	I mean, I can only tell you 20 minutes on this. First of all, we invite the Prime Minister to be serious first. No one's laughing, we're doing a very serious job. The government of the opposition is one of the control tools, and it's a very serious business, of course. We're aware of this seriousness, but the government and the Prime Minister, I don't think they realize how serious it is yet. I mean, people hold their breath and wait for the result. So, have you left your reputation in the House, in the law, in the decrees of the law, to rule over the country? With the court's instructions, everyone will be present. The Minister of Justice is in a suit of armor protecting the palace. What do you mean, it's serious business? Of course we're doing serious work. There is no law in Turkey right now, there is no Constitution, the principles of the legal state are being put underfoot, they are being tortured, and the Prime Minister tells us that the general is a serious business. And again, the literature of victimization: it didn't happen to the cooked chicken that happened to us. You're not a victim, no one believes you. You keep bringing fuses from the nose of 78 million, saying, "We are victims." I'm from the AKPP. Everyone who doesn't say "AKPP" faces the threat of being arrested, tortured, imprisoned, fired, expelled in this country. So... And one of the Prime Minister's most critical assessments: that God is on our side, that the enemy is not on our side. We know that he has already declared us enemies. We know that you treat the People's Democratic Party, the nation, the people, the people who voted for us as enemies; we see it every day. By your arrests, by your interference, and by your destruction of cities, you are already hostile, but do we see whether Allah is on your side? In my opinion, he is not on your side, and we think he is going to bring down the score from your nose in the next world, because we are the ones with the oppressed, and you are taking the pain of the oppressed every day. Congressmans, we're going through a really big test. Besides, there's no universal right to rule over this test, and it's run down to our looting mind cells, and we're trying to get out of this blind circle with honor, but we're gonna get out of it, too. But I'm very curious to know how the precogs of this indiscriminateness will answer in front of the law. Yes, Mr. Attorney General, how will you answer in front of the law? It will be too severe to ignore civil killings, unjust trials, detentions and arrests, torture and abuse, the will of the people; to ignore the Constitution, international contracts, the will of parliament, and to take over the country with the KHKs, so you will know that. Everybody needs the law, and you should know that. The day after tomorrow, when you give this bill in law, we'll all see. It really started before the June 7th elections, and on July 15th, it became a nightmare for all citizens. None of us feel safe in Turkey; no one has legal security, no one has job security, no one has the right to be tortured right now. June 7th was a turning point, and it grew. Now, I'm passing through because we've told you a lot about curfews. As a monument to lawlessness, no law can explain the curfews that are still being imposed in Şırnak, the destruction of a city; this is violence. There's no explanation politically, ethically, or in the name of law, for destroying a city and even getting the people living in tents out of there. Again, many times before, lawyers who went to the Constitutional Court have been arrested in this country; lawyers who went to the ECHR have been arrested; Ramazan Demir, Ayşe Akinikli have been arrested for months because they have filed a lawsuit against the unlawfulness of curfews, and they are still being prosecuted. Now, what law are we going to talk about here? Now, let's look at the academics who were expelled by the KHK, who are instructed by the President, who sees fit by the Minister of Justice, whether they are arrested or fired. So it's the same thing that happens to teachers, it's the same thing that happens to health workers. The AKP government, along with the palace, is actually on July 15th with the power behind it, under the name of a great disaster whisperer, which we have said so much in this Congress about the coup attempt, that we've said so much in this Congress that even though we've been able to use it as an excuse for July 15th and tell everyone else that it shouldn't be an instrument of war, it's happening again in our eyes today, and the country is being dragged back into an open fascism. So, really, Mr. Justice Minister, what are his past practices? I'd like to make a brief reminder that Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, who is now from the United States asking for the extradition of Gülen, who is collecting sacks of evidence and fighting against the Fethullah Gulen organization, for example, in 2012, he was the one who sent his own greetings to America, not to the United States, but to the United States three years ago, not too old, or to the Parliamentary General Assembly, is a valuable asset raised by this country, which you don't like, but he is a wise man. He serves to bring up national, spiritual generations of this country. Everything is clear; it is open under the control of the state, under the supervision of the state; and if you call a person who is not a prosecutor's attorney, you will be unjust to him. He was just yesterday. Although he did say that he had changed his mind about it in the Assembly General Assembly, but does it change so quickly? We're putting in a big question mark, and we need to evaluate our day. But there's a good thing about that speech, where at least the Minister of Justice uses the concepts of innocence and injustice. It's a very common concept of law enforcement, the concept of innocence, that no one can be considered guilty without a certain punishment. But right now hundreds of thousands of people in Turkey are considered criminals, and sheets are displayed in the media as if they had been given a final verdict. We prefer the Minister of Justice to use his old ideas more often, at least in the sense of innocence and injustice. Again, here, July 15 coup attempt is sent to thousands of opposing prisons with the opportunity of gold, and they say: "We have declared the state of emergency. There are now two cases of pumping in this country: one, fear is pumping night and day, 24 hours. There's a great fear that everyone who's in front of the TV has to pump in to make sure that they don't feel safe, that they can be taken at any moment. And the second one is that he's pumping a big lie. There's such a big lie that lies... that there's a saying... that if you tell a lie a few times, you'll believe it's true. No one believes it. This current state of emergency has not been declared to the government. What does the arrest of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Mayors have to do with cleaning up the state? When President Recep Tayyip Erdogan was Prime Minister, he said he wanted Diyarbakır daily. Today he had the opportunity to immediately order Diyarbakır to take him into custody. Again, arrests against other opponents, detentions... just yesterday, Cumhuriyet daily, Aydın Engin, Cadri Gürsel, Musa Pine, cartoonist. Oh, my God! What did these say?
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0062par0071	Musa Kart...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0063par0072	Mr. Musa is here.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0060par0073	Musa Kart... don't let Musa Pine get arrested. Azadiya Welat newspaper, the only Kurdish daily newspaper; HANHA; JINHA, one women's agency and 22 radio TVs, all shut down. Why? It's in the name of a verdict. But these aren't judgmental decisions. Let no one try to convince us that these are judgmental decisions, because we come from within the judgment. I'll tell you why it's not a judgment with a few examples. Mr. Minister of Justice has just returned from America and says: "We may not have been in my mind until we require the arrest of Fetollah Gulen. We have submitted files, sacks and faces." What if you took hundreds of folders? And while we're still on the road, before we get on the plane, he says: "The arrest of Riza Sarraf" is political. Thus we learn his true purpose. I ask the Minister of Justice: Did you really go to the United States to get Reza Sarraf? Did you go to get Fetullah Gulan? So he wants to know about it in public. You've brought an execution debate at the same time. We're confused. Reza Sarraf is a political prisoner, Gültan Kışanak, Ayla Akat Ata, Fırat Anlı, Necmiye Albay, Zana Kaya, İnan Kızılkaya is not a political prisoner? You expect us to believe that. I'd like to draw your attention to the execution debate. We are a country in this country that executes its Prime Minister. There's nothing to brag about in our past, about the execution of death sentences and the period in force. Bringing up the death row now is a move aimed at preventing the extradition of Fetullah Smiley. If this move isn't aimed at prevention, we'll all be facing it in the coming days. Everyone knows that anyone who knows a little bit of international law, who knows a little of the contracts between them, will not be extradited to an executed country. Well, we're wondering if there's a deal being made with Fetullah Gülen. We want an answer to that. We're really curious about that because right now, the country's blood in such a state, the prisons are a torture facility, and we can't answer any of those questions. And Mr. Minister of Justice has made a statement about this, if I'm not mistaken again in the United States: there's not a single arrested journalist. We don't know, we're wondering if İnan Redkaya has an arms factory, Editor-in-Chief of the Agenda daily. Necmiye Albay, a linguist, as far as I know, is a journalist with dozens of books, only the Editor-in-Chief, on the advisory board. We don't know what weapons Aslı Erdoğan carried, what bombs he dropped. There is no journalist. What do you mean by that, we want an explanation as well. Again, Mr. Justice Minister said there is no torture in Turkey in one speech. I've just looked at it again, for a long time, in these tweets, let whoever claims it, give his name, his identity, his identity. We'll do what's necessary. Well, I'm saying there are reports of Human Rights Watch, there are 12 names -- I'm busy, I don't have time -- please, look at those names, whether there's torture or not. Again, the Society of Modern Lawyers says there are prisoners who have been operated on by the people, by the public, by the people, because of the rape he saw. I suggest you look at the report of the CHD. I've just received this name, Sertaç Sapmaz, who is now in Bolu Prison -- just as an example -- is being taken to Squirrel while injured. He needs surgery. He was taken from Şırnak, he was severely tortured and his family will press charges tomorrow. I'm giving it to you as a solid name. Also, in this regard, I would like to rephrase the appeal of our co-Chair, Mr. Demirtaş, whichever one of us you want to go to prison with me. You haven't let us go to prison in a year. You don't allow lawless, arbitrary, violent methods to allow lawmakers to go and oversee the conditions there. Come, let's go together, our co-chair has an open call. If there's no torture, he'll resign, you'll resign. We're telling the public, right now, the torture is going on, and all the prisons are turning into a torture house. Again, you're saying that our Cezaevi commission is studying, going, coming. After July 15th, I looked into it from our members of the prison commission, only one visit to Eskişehir Prison, and no prison has been visited with complaints. There are dozens of complaints every day. Mehmet Metiner -- so-called, President of the Prison Subcommittee -- looks the public in the eye and says, "I'd kick you in the face, too, if I had a gun, I'd shoot you." This is the prison commission that's going to supervise the rights violations. That can't happen! And right now, the monitoring boards that we've always criticised, the prison monitoring boards have been abolished, and after July 15th, they've been completely relieved of their duties. In our interrogation, why can't you reassign... They said we did. But right now, there's absolutely no way to go to prisons and investigate. Yeah, there's a lot to say about that, really. So I can't think of a single reason why the Minister of Justice should remain in office right now, but I can set up a million reasons at the point where his suspension should be accepted. Because in this country, the trial is now over, the separation of forces is over. Three days ago, I was present at the interrogation of Mr. Winteranak, Anlı and Akat. The lawyers weren't allowed in the courthouse door, the lawyers weren't. We went in as MPs, as the Attorney General instructed, and they said, "Please, we beg you, you cannot be here." We went out there to avoid trouble, sat down with the families, and the lawyers waited at the door with us until midnight. We wanted to talk to the prosecutor, the prosecutor couldn't. You know why he didn't, he doesn't feel safe. Side by side prosecutors are afraid of each other. The judges with the rooms next to each other are afraid of each other. The judge says: "I wonder if this person will arrest me or the other person will arrest me?" The prosecutor says: "Is this the one who will open the investigation on me? Does he open the investigation?" I don't need to share the numbers, thousands of judges, prosecutors are now suspended, 632 judges and prosecutors have been arrested, and 3.456 judges and prosecutors have been dismissed, and judges don't feel safe. A judge I knew was making an arrest in the Å investigation, and the prosecutor was arresting both of them a month later. Yeah, well, no one can see your future. Because he doesn't trust the judgment, because the judgment doesn't trust him. I'd like to say this again quickly: the principle of face-to-face is over, 50 percent of the trials are done with the SEGBIS system. Prisoners are being sent to prisons thousands of miles from their families. Now, what's Gültan Kışanak? Why is he being sent to Kandira Prison? Why are all the prisoners who have been tried in Diyarbakır arrested in Turkey's Black Sea, Central Anatolia, Aegean, Marsha? Why are families being tortured like this? Well, that's one of the Minister of Justice's pearls again. The principle of equality of weapons is over. The ECHR is one of its main doubts, and the defense is completely destroyed. So there's no justice in this country, there's no Minister of Justice, there's no Minister of Justice in this palace. The Minister of Justice says what the Palace says. I'll say justice of the palace, and there's no justice of the palace. The injustice of the palace goes on, with 78 million citizens condemning us to unlawful conduct. Come on, let's stop this going on. Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0064par0090	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0065par0091	Mr. President, according to the Civil Code of 60, I have a request for my position.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0064par0092	Here, wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0065par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, at the beginning of the session, the coup process of the palace-AKP regime continues uninterrupted. According to media reports, they have entered the Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality into madness, as appointed trustee of the Etimesgut subsidiary. The AKP government knows very well what Diyarbakır is to the Kurdish people, Turkey is to the struggle for democracy. I hope they've calculated the consequences well. Let the Aleppos rule, and let the Musul be ruled by the Musulians. If a regime is trying to rule Diyarbakır with the servants of the palace sent from Etimesgut, we will consider it a madness only to speed up its own political end. Let them not forget that in the Middle East, those who had such a desire to be dictators, those who went into this kind of madness, had greater palaces, greater armies... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But we've seen their fate. I say we condemn this madness and find this approach to fuel a fire unacceptable.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0066par0101	Congressmans, Mr. Gök had just briefed Parliament on a matter. I need to make a statement about the distribution of documents, and I'm reading it: The 17th Article of the Documentary Rule, adopted on October 13, 2014 of the Presidential Court, states that the distribution and delivery of legislation can also be carried out in electronics. As part of the Paperless Parliament Project, launched by Turkey's Grand National Assembly in the 24th Legislature, to reduce the waste of paper waste and speed up distribution service, the political party groups' views are also adopted and electronic distribution of the legislative document. In this direction, Parliamentary Presidency announced 21/10/2016 that legislation and proposals on distribution and commission reports included the number of audit proposals and the distribution of them as printed documents to the demanding MPs and the application of these documents to lawmakers who do not want printed documents in electronic media. In other words, the required MPs will be given a printed copy of the number of rows, and the lawmakers who do not demand print copies will be satisfied with electronic distribution. The members of the Presidential Court will continue to distribute printed legislation to commissions and political party heads. Also, the proposed 11/12 (11/13) and (11/13) primary genenomous motions have been distributed in the old way, published in print, and also sent in the email environment. For your information.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0067par0104	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0066par0105	Mr. Special, come in, one moment...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0067par0108	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, of course, the information note you have is perfectly reasonable when you listen to it as it is. However, we also pointed out that false information and misleading information of the executives last week in our application to the Speaker of Parliament with 28/10/2016 dates and 25 points. You've just read in the information note that the views of the groups have been taken. After these opinions have been taken, there is a consequence for the Parliamentary Secretary General of Parliament. It also says in its writing that the proper opinions of the groups are added. On July 4, 2013, we sent a letter signed by Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, our current Group President. The whole article is intended to be a violation of the Civil Code, and to create its woes. In addition to the article of the Parliamentary bureaucracy of the period, we extend to the Speaker of Parliament that our group has expressed a negative opinion on the matter, we offer to you the appropriate reviews of the group. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, sir...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0068par0114	One more minute, please complete.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0067par0115	So we also think the Speaker didn't read the exclusion based on the content of the letter that he was presented to him. Our article, which is full of criticism, is presented as the appropriate opinion of the group. So today's painting came out. We wrote this last week. Objection. It's obvious that there's been some setbacks. Of course, let's reduce the waste of paper, but given the waste of paper in Parliament, it's not even a big deal. You can do this: If you say so, we will not send it to anyone who wants it. We're not going to send it today, we're going to send it to you. It's an open violation of the Civil Code. It's written in the Civil Code. It needs to be printed and sent to the MPs. Many of our MPs received the e-mail on Monday. On Saturday, we distributed the generic to closed offices. The statement is to mock the council's mind. I'm not saying this to you, but to the dear friends who gave you the memo. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0069par0119	Thank you. Mr. Bostanci, we're listening.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0070par0121	Mr. President, there is no Internet in the southeast, how will the MPs in the southeast serve there?
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0069par0122	Mr. Tanal, I promised Mr. Bostanci, please. Here you go, Mr. Botanci, just a minute...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0071par0125	I condemn the language used by Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0072par0126	Why do you not condemn your own language? Why do you not blame yourselves for what you used to do?
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0071par0127	If the intention is a political criticism of what has been done, I think it would be appropriate at least to use the concepts in order to express them in a kind manner that allows anyone to be understood and comprehended, and to express them to the purpose of the criticism with a pure explanation and judgment. The AKP and the court's regime, such as the officers of the palace, we do not find it appropriate for a language that is pure, speculative, fundamentally irrational. The name of the system in Turkey is known. Everyone acts under the rights and powers established in the Constitution and within the laws. Other than that, we can't change that with arbitrary definitions, and we can't get a review here. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0073par0129	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0074par0130	Mr. Naci, you're the one who's changed.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0075par0131	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0073par0132	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0075par0133	Mr. Bostanci accused me of rudeness and condemned me, made an open taunt. I'd like to take the floor without teasing.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0073par0134	I don't think you're accusing me of rudeness, let's ask Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0075par0135	He said I spoke and condemned out of political courtesy.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0076par0136	I said I didn't find it polite, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0073par0137	He didn't say it out of kindness, that's what I'm hearing.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0076par0138	I also said that it would be more appropriate for Mr. Baluken to use the concepts in his place, beyond the purpose of questioning, if he would pass on a political criticism to us.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0073par0139	There's no insult. I'll give you my word for a minute. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0077par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. We know exactly what terminology means. We didn't create that terminology, it was the AKP and the AKP Group itself. The Minister of Justice, who says the regime has changed in this country, lives here. You have numerous officials who say there's been a final regime change. So when you actually say that you've given up parliamentary democracy and created an actual situation, that's all we're saying. If you are uncomfortable with the AKP regime, you must first have a certain attitude toward the statements made by your authorities. On the other hand, I will never enter the political courtesy section. I think that while you're currently running an enemy law, a coup law, I think you've been talking about our people's will, all the gains of our political party, all the kindness that you've had in the time that you've completely eliminated with a coup law. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0078par0147	Thank you. Mr. Sky, I made a statement against your objections, but then Mr. Special said some different things. Let's just say the matter will be examined by the presidency. I'll give it to him.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0079par0149	We demand that it be examined, yes.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0078par0153	Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, we will listen to Istanbul MP Ismail Faruk Aksu. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0080par0156	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have taken a motion on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the opening of a gene for Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ on charges of failing to prevent violations of rights, which were alleged after the July 15 coup attempt. I salute the General Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. On the night of the 15th of July, the traitors of the Turkish Republic opened fire on the Turkish nation and martyred our innocent citizens. In addition, the separatist terrorist organisation PKK is ambushing and slaughtering our soldiers, police and civilian citizens. Yesterday, three of our soldiers were killed and one of them injured in a clash with terrorists in Hakkari Çukurca Citar Mountain. Over the past week, 10 citizens have been martyred. I wish all our martyrs the mercy of God, the immediate healing of the wounded, the condolences of our nation. As it is known, the July 15th treacherous coup attempt has been avoided by the Turkish nation's vast conquest, its commitment to democracy, its determination and determination, and democracy has returned from the abyss. This treacherous attack took place on all political institutions, on the unity and support of the Turkish nation and state. In our opinion, no excuse can be based on the failure of democracy, armed intervention, and the longing for an intermediary. It is the embodiment of an unshakable principle that states that a possible attempt by the National Movement Party and its leader is unacceptable, that we are opposed to any non-democratic search, that those who attempt a coup must surrender immediately to the law from the very beginning, that they should be committed to national will and democracy. It is a democratic, secular and social law state of the Republic of Turkey, as stated in Article 2 of the Constitution. Turkey is indivisible with its country and nation. The foundations of our national and unitary state structure were laid in 1923. Sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally. Any plan and enterprise against that is illegitimate and illegitimate. Dear lawmakers, since 21 July 2016, the state of emergency has been declared in the entire country for 90 days. As of October 19, 2016, the state of emergency has been extended for 90 days. Both decisions have been adopted in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. As the National Movement Party, as it is known, we supported both decisions on the implementation of the state of emergency in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Because the most extraordinary situation in our country has occurred, an attack on the Turkish state and Turkish nation has been launched. The state's hand was asked to be strengthened at a time when the state was confronted with threats at the level of Turkey, in order to ensure and maintain public peace, which was seen as a guarantee and a constitutional measure against the focal points that ambushed the nation and wanted to inflict heavy casualties on the state. A total of 10 laws have been issued for the measures taken under the state of emergency. Decisions have made radical changes to the judiciary, security, national defence, organizational and public employees, and comprehensive savings have been made. In this framework, 3,576 judges, prosecutors; 3,598 military personnel; 62,908 people from public service have been expelled in total, 70,082 people. Following the State of Emergency declaration, the decrees of the State of Emergency have been issued, which means that the State of Emergency has exceeded its authority, and that the State of Emergency has been removed from the State of Emergency. Dear MPs, anyone who is involved in the coup attempt on July 15th should be removed from state institutions if they are not willing to comply with its responsibilities. Of course, these findings need to be consolidated with investigation processes. Since there are not enough investigations and investigations, no one's dignity and dignity should be tampered with in vain. Objection mechanisms must be operated in a healthy manner and demands taken seriously. In particular, the lack of ownership and uncertainty in the application of objections must be resolved. Everyone deserves to know what the situation is about themselves. Finding out what he's accused of will help expose the truth, and if there is, it will help eliminate the victims. The investigations and prosecutions carried out by limiting the right to defend will make it impossible for the criminal to leave the innocent, not reveal the truth, and damage the fight against the terrorist organization. Under Code 675, we find it important to extradite some of the former public officials who had been discharged. We consider it a guarantee that if there is, the mistakes will be corrected and the victims will be compensated. Of course, the struggle will not be credible in the public conscience until the traitors at all levels who attempt to harm the Turkish state and the Turkish nation have been completely purged. We find it important that the investigation phases are not interrupted, that they have no understanding of what has happened, that public support has not been lost, and that faith in the government cannot be weakened. In this framework, as far as officers, workers, or other professions are concerned, the planners of July 15th must be evaluated, investigated, and cleaned with the same care, regardless of their political and other positions, position, and duty. Dear lawmakers have faced growing problems in Turkey with the legal and judicial system growing in recent years. These problems are common and show itself in many parts of the law. The biggest problem, however, is that the existing rules of law are not enforced or apply differently depending on the individual or the situation. Problems related to the principle of equality, which is the most important element of the democratic legal state, and the right to legal security, also undermine the public's confidence in justice. Lowering confidence in the judiciary also reduces the dignity of the judiciary. One of the greatest dangers that this poses in social life is that people turn their differences to other ways and methods rather than to see them in the judiciary. According to data published by the Council of Europe's Active Judiciary Commission in 2016, there are 24 judges in Germany, 21 in Greece, 21 in Switzerland, 21 on the average of European countries, and only 11.4 in Turkey. Again, the average number of prosecutors in the European countries is 11.3, while the average number of prosecutors in the European countries is 6.8. In the Global Index for the Superiority of World Law, released annually by the World Justice Project, Turkey was ranked as 99th among the 113 countries in the World Law Project to develop the rule of law by reducing 8 digits from last year. Turkey, which ranked 47th in the Legal Justice Index in 2014 among 99 countries, was ranked ranked 86, among 113 countries in 2016. The Criminal Justice Index was ranked 71st among the 113 countries in 2016, which ranked 62nd among 99 countries in 2014. It's even worse than the basic rights index. In 2014, our country was ranked 72 degrees among 99 countries, and in 2016, it was ranked 108, among 113 countries. This also has a profound impact on the country's economy. In order to have a productive economy, the right investments and new technologies must come to our country. However, it is not possible to transfer foreign investors and new technologies to a country where the judicial system is unpredictable and has problems with the rule of law. These problems are not a result of a treasonous coup attempt. The AKP, which has ruled the country for 14 years, has made a lot of arrangements for the judicial system, with similar reasons being brought forward each time, but problems have not been reduced, and they have increased exponentially. For whatever reason, it shows a weakness of governance, and the government is responsible. Dear lawmakers, it is our primary goal as a nationalist Movement Party to eradicate the terror that has become the problem of Turkey, to establish peace and trust throughout our country, to secure the lives and property of our citizens, to ensure our unity and unity, to ensure our future, to enlighten our horizons, to preserve our people, and to share the rest of our state with our government. We find it important that a political understanding of our state, which is dominated by democratic culture of maturity and reconciliation, exclusive and aberration, and that the national and moral values of Turkey are classified as the common denominator of the principles of the institution in the first three Articles of our Constitution. At this point, we assess that it is not right to look at matters through the pure political party. We think it's the first condition for Turkey and all those who share similar sensibilities to move the Turkish nation into the future to emerge from the depressed period that has passed through them. Without a doubt, the Turkish nation has the potential and the potential to re-create a large synthesis by adding the vast historical experience it has and the universal achievements of democratic values to its cultural depth. The fact that this understanding can be realized, the uninterrupted full democracy that will lead to the integration of politics with society at every level, and the necessity for the construction of antidemocratic, informal rules, institutions, and structures that have led the state away from society, history, and national identity, as well as the rule that will allow Turkey to tear off its own shell and bring civilization-building values to the oppressed nations. Dear lawmakers, we view justice as a guarantee of basic rights and freedoms and the basis of the state. Therefore, judgment should be based on a structure that people can trust without hesitation. The fact that judges and prosecutors have integrity and conscience is a guarantee of trust in the judiciary. Judicial should be made up of a structure that does not act in the direction of political authorities or certain individuals or groups, which does not allow a portion of belonging to overcome the sense of justice, always and under all circumstances. A fair and swift trial must be provided by the principle that delayed justice is not justice. Applications that limit or eliminate defence rights, which are an integral part of the judicial system, should not be performed. Turkey has been fighting terrorism for many years. Hundreds of martyrs on this road, hundreds of our citizens lost their lives. Turkey's geography is full of threats to the state and nation's back. Today, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) are two groups of murders and curses gathered in front of Turkey. The PKK continues without a pause in its betrayal and bloody attacks, while fighting for this side from July 15th. It is not possible for us to ignore them, to underestimate them. For this reason, our country must not be abandoned again to an understanding that the state authority has been weakened, which has imprisoned security forces in barracks and police stations. Turkey must be restored to institutional capacity, individual competency and legal norms that can provide them, without being exposed to freedom-security, development-circle, anti-terrorism, justice and so on, human rights and the rule of law. In this mandatory process, the National Movement Party will continue to criticize every development, in the name of rights, law and justice, as it carefully supports what it sees and sees right within the framework of the Turkish nation and its state. With these thoughts, I salute you worthy members of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0081par0171	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Muharrem Man will speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Man.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0082par0175	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the motion to ask Mr. Bekir Bozdağ for dissolution of constitutional practices, violations of universal rights, violations of the law, injustices, injustices. I salute the High Council. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize two very important issues for us. The first is the assault on Mr. Bulent Tezcan. We also condemn this bench with violence and hatred. During the State of Emergency, you take measures to facilitate individual arms. Whereas, Mr. Minister of Justice, where justice prevails, there is absolutely no place for a weapon. Second, the Republic newspaper. I congratulate you, you have detained Mr. Hikmet Cetkaya, who said "Your Majesty Fetullah Gülen" when he said "Your Majesty" and struggled with the situation in the State of Emergency." Yes, Hikmet Çetinkaya's book, "The 40 Year's Adventure of Fethullah," which you have walked to the same range in an important part of this adventure. The State of Emergency has been declared against the state. You said that the State of Emergency has also been declared against journalists, academics, democracy and freedom. Dear MPs, as noted in our July 24th Taxi Manifesto, the coup attempt on July 15th has been carried out against our parliamentary democracy. So, why did July 15th happen? For 14 years, you've been running alone under the name system, not taking the most important steps to democratize our country, but two of them are the Law of Political Parties and Elections. You've underwent the coup law of September 12th. You took us back to 1981, the time of Canaan's Universe, especially when you were disseminating the presidential election at universities, especially with your latest arrangement. Look, if a political party sets all 550 parliamentary candidates between the two lips of a few people and offers it to the public, it's a big contradiction and abuse to talk about national will. You've led a process of unconstitutional and unlawful conduct. In the fifth paragraph of the Constitution, the principle of secularism states that sacred religious feelings cannot be mixed with state and policy works, but you have entered politics into mosques, barracks, courthouses, and thus brought our country into the semi-aggressive class of hybrid democracy. The July 15th coup attempt is also of great importance among the reasons that led us to the coup attempt. Of course, there's a structure that you walk to the same range as yourself during the 14 years of your own administration. In the process, we saw that all of the government's institutions were handed over to the Fetullah Gulen Congregation, a terrorist organization. Mr. Minister of Justice warned America in the United States that if you don't take precautions, you don't know what you'll find in ten years. Look -- you're a lawyer, and I'm a lawyer, and there are very valuable lawyers under this House -- you didn't take precautions intentionally, intentionally and willingly. Evidence of this is the 2004 National Security Board decision. If you do not act according to this National Security Council decision, if you ignore this decision, we do not recognize it. If you say so, it is intentional. In the meantime, in the Commission for Research on Impacts, the facts come out one by one because no power can cover the truth. What Hilmi Ozkok said in the Commission was that at the National Security Council meeting in August 2004, we, the Armed Forces, said that this organization had a tremendous capacity. The ability to make things happen over the years, but the intention changes overnight. Make an execution plan, keep an eye on it. Then we watched what was being done, but we didn't see much being done. A quote from the statement of Nedim Sener (National Security Council) quoted the organisation of the Security and TSK twice, one in June 2004 and the other in August 2004. Why not take precautions? Because you were in cahoots at the time? Were you taking part in the Fetullah Gulen Congregation, or were you taking part in a terrorist organization? You must explain to the High Council why these measures have not been taken from this bench. Look, Mr. President, we gave them what they wanted. He said, "May my people forgive us." But then the Prime Minister said, "The AKP was not macheted." Who's telling the truth, precious lawmakers? Who's telling the truth? Who was the prosecutor of the conspiracy cases with this structure? What happened to the memory of the money you pressed for the Turkish Olympics? You led our beautiful country into a abyss, along with the Laughing Congregation, where you walked in the same range, and left the state and the nation face a coup attempt that they never deserved. On the night of July 15th, the people's right to resist, the will of Parliament, the elements of democracy within our military and police, and the position of our media, our democracy was saved from a serious coup. On the night of July 15th and after that, all four political parties under this roof stood in an extremely honorable position. A joint statement against the coup was written, this statement was submitted to the great nation, and this statement stressed the democratic parliamentary system. Look, this is very important and meaningful. For him, the people who died on the night of July 15th did not die because they wanted to place your operational power unit on a legal basis under the presidential packaging; nor did they die for the presidential system; they died because they defended the constitutional system, democracy and freedoms. Our economy is failing, justice is failing, there's a huge fire inside and out of every four college graduates, and all you're worried about is the presidential system. Dear lawmakers, man invented the state to disobey man, invented the law. Where there is no rule of law, no one is safe, even those closest to power. Danton, the famous politician and lawyer of the French Revolution, says: "Anonymity and lawlessness are like Saturn; one day it will eat its own child. " Dear lawmakers, our problem is not the system issue; our problem is the constitutional goodwill problem, our problem is the issue of people who have been elected to constitutional bodies due to the Constitution, the issue of democracy. We're polarized, precious MPs. We have a multi-party party system where the culture of political reconciliation is not developed, and we have an ideological, ethnic, religious segregation that is a source of this system. Therefore, it is clear that the necessity of a president in Turkey, who is certainly neutral and has a position above parties, is clear. Our constitution is already placing that responsibility on Mr. President. In Article 103, the President of the Constitution has sworn to work with full force to carry out its duties objectively, and the Constitutional Article 104 is the head of the state for the President. He is the head of the state, he is not the head of the government, Mr. President, and he also observes the implementation of the Constitution under the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to address our Minister of Justice, and I'd like to share the picture of justice. Yes, our country, the Supremeity of Law Index, is the 99th, unfortunately among 113 countries in the world. In fact, this index reveals many truths. Look, we've got countries like Tanzania, Zambia, Kyrgyzistan, Nigeria, Guatemala, Iran, the Supreme Court of Law, Mr. Secretary. In this index, there's a very striking data, all of the countries in the top 15th period of the Rule of Law Index -- all of the countries in which the justice system operates very healthy -- are run by the parliamentary system, all of them. Many of these include European countries, Canada and Japan. Please take a look at this index. We lead the number of criminal cases in Europe, but we are at the latest in the number of judges. This painting, Ergenekon, as in the sledgehammer processes, also causes many innocent people in our judicial system to stay in prison for many years, while the original criminals are often unavailable, due to the state of the investigation files. Yeah, the D.A.'s investigation files are over $4 million. You know what the most striking example is? Allegations of sexual harassment and abuse against children and lawsuits. 700, 7 times higher in the last ten years. There is no mention of morality where there is no justice, as Montaigne said. An indictment dated 6/6/2016 by our Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office says that there are thousands of judges and prosecutors who will make all kinds of unlawful decisions and use public power in the interest of the organization if they want to make any legal decisions that ا/PDY has a significant staff in its jurisdiction. This is the point where you bring the trial, Mr. Justice Minister. It has been noted that the investigations and trials of many of the cases that have been closely monitored by the public in recent years have been carried out by members of the PDY's judicial organization in accordance with the objectives and regulations given by judicial imams in these proceedings, which have consciously been carried out in violation of the law. • The indictment of the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office and the picture of our judiciary have come, Mr. Secretary. We've all lived together in the cases of Şemdinli, Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, Military Espionage, Revolutionary Headquarters, Oda TV, and the non-organization of non-organists. You've divided the judicial party on an ideological, ethnic, religious basis. There were groups in the high judiciary called the economists, conservatives, economists, social democrats, and meetings began to take place, and this is the painting you brought the trial to. Such a picture of justice was added to the July 15 coup attempt and the State of Emergency process. We suspended international contracts. The most important thing in the suspension regime is non-resistant substances. You can't suspend torture, illegal crime and punishment, principle and right of life. And there's something very important. To the European Convention on Human Rights, no. 6 and 13 to the European Convention on Human Rights. It's the protocols. Mr. Secretary, this is extension 6 and 13. We signed the protocols at your time and put them into effect, protocols that completely eliminate the death penalty. The final joke of the 90th article of our Constitution states the superiority of international agreements on fundamental rights and freedoms adopted according to procedure, such as these protocols in our legal system. According to these protocols, you cannot bring the death penalty. And the 15th article of our Constitution shall not be carried out in the past. The law, which is the basic principle of criminal law, is in favour of the defendant, which is found in Article 7 of the Turkish Penal Code. In light of all these provisions, I'm asking the Minister of Justice, and I strongly request that he answer from this bench: Can you proceed with the death penalty in the past, please come out and explain this clearly here? If the House passes the death penalty, will you execute those who attempted the coup on the night of July 15th, please come out and answer this, Mr. Secretary, as a lawyer. On the night of July 15th, judge all who have been involved in a coup attempt and punish them with the severest sentence, with a life sentence, but the screams of death are unfortunately not both in accordance with international law laws and our legal laws, Mr. Secretary. Dear lawmakers, the State of Emergency is not a violation of the law, it is a legal regime of the State of Emergency. The extraordinary methods must maintain their presence under the control of law enforcement and judicial bodies, but unfortunately, the high court has ruled out the extraordinary rule of governance as a rule of law, Mr. Secretary. The Constitutional Court, unable to stand behind its own court, has opened the way for all pleasure, leaving basic rights and freedoms under open threat. Dear lawmakers, the removal of the parliamentary elections, the suspension of over 10,000 teachers from the duties of the EDUCM-SEN member, has nothing to do with the State of Emergency measures of our country being transformed into the world's largest journalist prison, which the Minister should explain from this stand. You've created mass casualties with collective criminal and criminal practices. You've destroyed innocence, the principle of the individuality of punishment, the principle of law in crime and punishment. Victims in direct and indirect masses -- the horse print has been mixed into the trail -- and let's not forget about the phrase -- potential victims, along with applications for family members of the suspects, have grown like avalanches. You want to drown the opposition completely. You want to destroy the freedom of expression of journalists. However, we, the Republican People's Party, will never allow you to destroy rights and freedoms. Look -- in the meantime -- as a lawyer, I'd like to share as a lawyer. The lawyer, who was guaranteed with criminal judgment and the spirit of criminal trials and investigations, unfortunately you've damaged client confidentiality. You've forgotten that lawyers serve as public defenders. Thirty days of detention, compelling restrictions on attorney access, application changes in the process of receiving medical reports have increased and strengthened torture claims, I'm afraid. In information presented to the European Parliament, the Ministry of Justice said the detention period for 95% of the cases did not exceed three or four days. Well, then why don't you move this 30-day detention period to a reasonable time if you share and present such data? I'd like to share with you two examples of victimization, with the discretion of the High Assembly: you have removed a medical professor from his post and led thousands of cancer patients followed by this medical professor to victims that are indirectly impossible to repair with him. You put a poor woman, a mother of two children who worked at a public institution, who also worked on a subcontractor, on the doorstep of a poor woman, on the grounds of suspicion that she was involved with the organization. What in God's name is the relationship of a working woman who works on a subcontractor to care for her two children? Mr. Secretary, the high-profile MPs, they have to be done. In the process, we need to take the necessary measures quickly, considering the report of the European Council's Human Rights Commissioner. We need to be open to the control of the UN's special reporter on torture. Rather than open to transparency and control, it enhances our reputation, strengthens the legal state. We must extinguish injustice much quicker than a fire. As I come to the end of my remarks, I would like to address the journalists and their families who were detained in the political operations carried out in the Cumhuriyet daily, including Ergenekon, Balyoz, military espionage, Oda TV, fraud plots, those who were put away in prison for years, those who were not guilty of murder in the State of Emergency, and those who were taken into custody by the journalists and those who were taken into custody in the political operations of the Cumhuriyet daily: They've captured us, They put us in jail, I'm in the walls, You're outside the walls. It's a small business. knowingly, unknowingly Carrying the prison inside yourself... A lot of people have been reduced to this. They're honest, hardworking, good people. And worthy to be loved as much as I love you... Dear lawmakers, justice must first come from the state, because I say law is the state's social order, and in the face of a painting like this, it is not possible for us to give Mr. Minister of Justice the vote of confidence. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0083par0213	Thank you, Mr. Man. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Kastamon MP Hakkı villager will speak. Here you go, Mr. Villageman.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0084par0217	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group regarding the motion for the geneorship issued by Peoples' Democratic Party members Mr. Çağlar Demirel and Mr. İdris Baluken regarding our Minister of Justice, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ. I hereby salute your high council. The motion has been made by the Supreme Court members of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court members, on July 15th, to open judicial investigations and administrative investigations against persons who were not involved in the coup attempt by the prosecutor, who were arrested, who were wrongfully discharged, who were detained, who were subjected to various tortures and detentions, who were not prevented from performing their duties, and who were eventually cut off from their professions and who were not involved in the cases. If we start from the 15th of July... where the government began about thirty-five or forty years ago, including its sensitive institutions, the police, the judicial organization and military forces, it appears to have settled in state bodies with all kinds of unlawfulness, including to exploit people's religious feelings, to sell and sell questions and fake documents, in order to achieve their goals. This structure took action on the night of July 15, 2016, on the night of July 15, 2016, to eliminate the regime, the government and the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation, to kill our President, to carry out that treacherous coup. This is a movement against the independence of the country and the integrity of the state, rather than the impacts that have been done so far, in short a complete treason. The moment of impact and then the process after the coup must be evaluated in view of this situation. When commenting and evaluation are being made, the promise of the work must not be overlooked. In the end, he faced the great resistance of the people and failed to succeed. Everyone knows what happened that night, so I won't go into details. What would happen if he succeeded? We don't even want to think about it. The movement has been destroyed, it has been avoided. On the night of July 15th, it was pitch dark, and the next morning, everyone was relieved and enlightened. We see this motion as an expression of the free will of a mind that spends its days on a safe ground, not a cognizant of danger on the night of July 15th. After July 15th, order is a limited order, which is intended to eradicate danger from its roots, taking its authority and resources from the Constitution, with the Constitution laid down; in other words, it is a state of emergency. But I'd like to share some of the character with your high committee. Of course, there is no doubt that our state of emergency is a constitutional regime. The state-of-the-art regime is transparent and transparent, as well as by its legal nature. It's a regime that gives mistakes a chance to correct. As a matter of fact, there are proper examinations of the objections, and austerity has been withdrawn, considering that there may be injustice. Of course, the mysterious character will not stand idle and will resort to any sort of deformation; this is expected. That's the character that's come out and started complaining about sabotaging the process. So much of the complaints come out of the same hand as the character. We're going through a time when we need national will sensitivity the most so that these complaints don't cause an unfair perception. Basically, there's a lot of that sensitivity in society. Complaints made in the motion are similar to complaints developed and thought about in the neighborhoods of Turkey. Both administrative procedures and judicial savings are established within the law. Basic rights are highly cared for. Of course, they are being investigated for whether complaints are related to the truth, whether they really are victims, and they are being investigated. In the end, it may lead to tragedy, to honor the motion passages, which mean the concentration of the judiciary and security units. Is there sympathy for the parallel structure that we find in cases such as Ergenekon and others as a criticism to protect the same judges today that we brought against judges who turned judgment into a fiction? And we don't want to think it happened. The dismissal of members of the Constitutional Court, members of the Supreme Court and members of the Court and some members of the HSYK is a result of the removal of the judiciary from the judiciary to its own organs, which eventually leads to a coup. In fact, there are exceptions in the law concerning those who have been deemed unfit to remain in the office in the second article of our Constitution, Article 139. So the authorities of the relevant institutions, the decisionmakers, have decided that it is no longer appropriate for them to remain in the profession, and they have dismissed them as a requirement of the Constitution. The actions of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Supreme Council, which was established in 2010, have eliminated the confidence in the judiciary, when the structure in the judiciary at the end of these actions has become a total injustice. To the members of this structure, of course, from now on, the state cannot deliver justice, nor can it be expected to deliver it. Those who claim that they have been wrongfully removed from the profession are also clear to appeal. I also want to point out that the decisions regarding judges and prosecutors that HSYK expelled from their profession did not come from the Minister of Justice's signature. The relevant agency of the HSYK has made this decision. If the Minister of Justice should have a signature on these decisions, Mr. Attorney General, I'm sure he'll vote yes. In this regard, each Minister of Justice votes yes. Let's not keep one more thing out of sight here: There have been a lot of objections when members of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors were determined by the Constitution, and by law, that the Minister of Justice should not be a member of this board. Now, it is said that the Minister of Justice is responsible for the errors and criticism of the judiciary and has not prevented it. And if the Minister of Justice wasn't in charge of this board, who would these criticisms be directed to? They would likely be addressed to the relevant representatives of the judiciary, the Supreme Court, the President of the Constitutional Court or the Chief Prosecutor. This would make the judgment very clear, or it would not be criticised on the heads of such institutions. Here, the Minister of Justice is here because the Minister of Justice is in charge of an insurance policy. Anyone here can easily address the Minister of Justice, his criticism, his objections to the Minister of Justice. Here, the Minister of Justice is in charge of this committee to meet them. And I'd like to specify this here as anthrparanthesis. Mehdi has come, and our Prophet has taken his place, and God has spoken to him, etc., etc., etc., and so on... it is a sad sight for a man who has decided to rule in this land with inadvertent thoughts. Now, where did all this come from? I want to tell you a few sentences from a decision here. There are four folder reasons for this decision. There's nothing in the folder but a few lines about the case. What's in it? There are verses from the Qur'an, verses from the ulama, verses from the saint, lots of poems. The Hrant Dink case, the death of Mustafa Kokok, various assassinations, and then Mehdi came, and he met with the Prophet, and everyone swore to him. I'm instructing the Chief of Staff to arrest the President immediately. This is the judge's decision. How can you think that a person who writes these things is a judge? And it's impossible to imagine how a judge like that could still stay in this business. That's how judges made decisions in this country. Such judges were behind the sledgehammer and Ergenekon cases, so no one should say anything about the proceedings against these judges. Sir, a few things about prisons are said to be torture in prisons. As of today, there are 372 criminal execution agencies in our country. They have a standard capacity of 190,000 people, but there are now 17,000 people. There has been a significant ejaculation in prisons according to the newly controlled Freedom Law, which we have recently established, so it could have been 17,000 people, and it could have been even more. If you look at the world's examples in Europe, they have between 90 and 120 percent in prisons. There are now 129,000 prisoners, 67 thousand prisoners. In 2001, the prisoner-run rate was around 50 to 50 percent. However, in all our legislation, we have stated that detention is a measure, that this must be applied for last. These worked, and in 2015 the number of prisoners corresponded to 13 per cent of the prisoners, but after the July 15 coup, the investigations came into effect, while the number of prisoners in prison with those arrested increased to 34 per cent. Another reason is that the number of prisons has risen, which, as it is known, has increased some of the punishments in our penal code, which took effect in 2005. With the amendment to the Penal Code, the execution, approximately 1/3, was changed to 2/3, causing the number of prisons to increase. If this keeps up, we'll have to do at least 20 prisons a year. Currently, 21 prisons are thought to be in service this year and next year, according to the Justice Department's data. So I'm going to have to point one more thing out here. The opinion of the International Criminal Congress held by İstanbul University's Law School every year is this: There is a development in the repair justice system in most countries around the world, including European countries. There is the idea that the victim's rights will be granted at once, and there will be a reduction in the fines in return. We need to go over this, too. Prisons really have high standards compared to other countries. When we go to Europe, our citizens tell us: "Take us to the prisons in Turkey, we may not even benefit from parole if necessary. " That means they're much worse than our prisons in Turkey, and we all know it. In criminal execution institutions, rehabilitation is highly implemented. In addition, education is important; the staff of criminal execution institutions are often educated. The prison includes 7,000 people who go to secondary school today, 16,000 people who go to open school, 3,000 people who go to knitting school, 3,000 people who go to remote education and so on. It functions as if it were an educational institution. Prisons are really one of the most controlled places in Turkey. There were monitoring boards of prisons that we once served in, after the coup of July 15th, which, in an extraordinary way, were annulled, so those boards were taken off their posts because they had been appointed by the judges of the previous parallel judiciary, and instead, they were highly appointed to the 144 penal execution boards. That's what we got from the Ministry. As for torture. Dear friends, the AK PARTY government has set aside a great place for torture as no government has ever cared before. One of our first jobs in 2003, if I'm not mistaken, before the Turkish Penal Code, number 5237 -- which is now in effect -- came into effect today -- was to change and consolidate sentences related to torture. In the 94th Article of the New Penal Code, the 94th Amendment to torture has been decreed between three and 12 years in prison for a public official who is incompatible with human dignity, who is incompatible with physical and spiritual pain, who is acting in ways that affect his perception and cognitive ability. In their qualifications, it'll be up to ten or fifteen years. If death was inflicted by torture due to its plant, a aggravated life sentence is foreseen, and more importantly, the cases that have been time-outed by the thought that the torturers were undetectable in previous years are no longer in question, then there is no statute of limitations in torture, and no investigation or trial has expired.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0085par0242	There are 497 cases of torture, according to the records of the Human Rights Foundation in Turkey this year alone, according to the Human Rights Association's records.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0084par0243	Well, then, whatever it is...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0086par0244	Mr. Villageman, please continue, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0085par0245	497; name's on it.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0084par0246	Look, please inform the Department of Justice that whatever cases there are, they will be dealt with.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0087par0247	Let's tell the Minister of Justice one by one!
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0084par0248	Now, look, guys, it's not just one thing. Many boards and committees, such as the Turkish Parliament's Commission on Human Rights Review, Public Rights Association, Human Rights Equality Agency, monitoring boards, republican prosecutors, execution judges, Justice Department inspectors, International Committee to Avoid Torture...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0088par0249	Why wasn't the containment mechanism installed? Why wasn't the containment mechanism installed?
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0089par0250	Dear Godkulu, please...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0084par0251	They're going to prevent and monitor their prisons, whether there's torture in them or not.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0088par0252	Why wasn't the prevention mechanism set up under the Turkish Human Rights Institution? It hasn't been built yet.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0089par0253	Dear Godkulu, please...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0090par0254	Mr. Villageman, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0088par0255	The detention committees of prisons have been abolished. Why can't we build a new one?
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0091par0256	In addition, if there is any press release of torture and abuse in prisons, a unit has been established in the Ministry of Justice to follow them, to study them and to study them, to follow them. If there's torture, it's reported.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0088par0257	Why didn't you let the U.N. audit?
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0091par0258	Also, in criminal investigations, if one person is caught, the doctor will be examined as soon as he is brought to the police station. He's out of custody, and he's being re-examined from the police station to the courthouse. These examinations are confidential, and a copy of the reports that come out of here is given to the state's attorney, and a copy of it is given to him or to him or to him.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0088par0259	Why isn't the containment mechanism set up? Why isn't the torture prevention mechanism set up, Mr. Villager?
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0092par0260	Mr. Godkulu, please... please don't disturb the speaker.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0093par0261	The General Assembly is listening to you, Mr. Villager.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0094par0262	So I don't think there's any right to say there's torture in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0095par0263	It's systematic torture. It's systematic torture.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0094par0264	Yeah, if anyone's saying there's torture, they'll tell the Justice Department their names one by one, and they'll be processed.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0095par0265	All detention centers have systematic torture.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0094par0266	For this reason, I would like to point out that the motion to the Minister of Justice is absolutely untrue, that I don't think it means anything, and that I would vote against the motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0096par0268	Thank you, Mr. Villageman.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0097par0269	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0096par0270	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0097par0271	Sir, there are one or two things I'd like to put on the record, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to put them on the record.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0096par0272	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0097par0273	Speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party, the spokesman expressed how judges were appointed and how they made their decision and expressed their dismissal. Now, Mr. President, there was a referendum in 2010 in this country, and the structure of the HSYK has been determined. The Republican People's Party strongly opposed the establishment of that HSYK. And the structure today is that the ruling party will provide democratisation in 2010. That HSYK structure has a huge impact on its constitutional amendment, which it has come up with. We saw the painting as the Republican People's Party, and we said, "You're doing it wrong." But with the amendment to the Constitution, the referendum voted, and the HSYK gave birth to today's judges.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0098par0275	Mr. President, is he responding without taunting or commenting?
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0097par0276	Two years ago, here, when the number of apartments and members in the Supreme Court were increased, we said, "You're doing it wrong. We were told to fight the case.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0099par0277	Pick it up, please, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0097par0278	The numbers have been increased, but at that point, it turns out that they were taken again. Later, now they're being purged. Now, everything we said was true. I'd like to file a report on how a member of the Constitutional Court was appointed. On February 26, 2010, a person working as a reporter at the Constitutional Court was appointed Assistant Assistant Secretary of the Maritime Ministry. Today's Prime Minister Bali is in the Ministry of Yıldırım. What's this about? Friend's a lawyer, but he was given a title by being appointed Assistant Assistant Secretary of the Maritime Ministry.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0099par0280	Mr. Sky, complete, please.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0097par0281	And after thirty-one days in the Ministry of Maritime -- I mean, after working under the protection and supervision of Bakili Yıldırım -- he was appointed to be a member of the Constitutional Court in 2010. We got up again. It's irregular, you're doing it wrong. We said in 2010. At that point, exactly six years later, he was removed from the Constitutional Court for his membership.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0099par0282	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0097par0283	At which point, I wanted to file a report that the ruling party was part of these wrong and bipolar attitudes.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0099par0285	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the government, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, Minister of Justice. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Bozdağ.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0100par0289	Mr. President, honorable MPs, I'm here on the basis of HDP's recommendation for me. I salute you all. At the beginning of my words, I'd like to express specifically that the function of the geneor is not used within the framework of the Constitution and within our Civil Code. That's what the Prime Minister said today. And when we read this gene, we can see it very clearly. Afaki, abstract, general assessments; more importantly, for the first time, a minister is being asked to reveal his views. I've got an evaluation, it's taken, it's put here, and it's called a gene. We all advocate the free expression of every thought under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but once we look at it, it's because of my opinion that this minister is being asked to fall. In the history of parliament, let's terminate the ministry because of its wings, lower it. I don't know if there's a geneor or not, but if there is, it's one of the most important. First thing I know, I ask, there's no such thing, but best of luck. Our coven has seen a lot of genesor, because it doesn't carry the quality of the gene, but I'd like to express some issues, even if it doesn't carry the quality of the gene, because they've been accused of a lot of things on the basis of this gene. Honourable MPs, did the coup attempt take place in Turkey on July 15, 2016? It happened. Is there any way we can act like July 15th didn't happen? This Parliament has been bombed, many of our people have lost their lives, many have been injured, some have lost their hands, feet, eyes, cripples; Turkey's democracy, constitutional order, and all of its elected organs have been asked to be destroyed. After such a great danger and a threat, after Turkey has been rescued from the edge of the abyss by our nation's movement, would it not be treason for us not to take any steps towards this Parliament, the Constitution, our duty to the Constitution, to bring Turkey here and to bring it to greater disasters after this? Of course it is. What do we do for him? We have declared a state of emergency in order to remove Turkey from this extraordinary situation that occurred on July 15, 2016. The state of emergency was originally brought to the government's effective, rapid decision-making and swift implementation of these decisions; it was not made to deliver Turkey from this danger, this threat, and to move our democracy, our national will, our legal state, into the future in a more secure way, otherwise to give power and power to those who want to destroy them. If you look at the State of Emergency practices so far, I'd like to say once again that all of them are in accordance with constitutional principles and that the State of Emergency is a constitutional institution. Everything is transparently and with regard to the State of Emergency, urgent and proportional measures aimed at preventing Turkey's threat, and steps are being taken accordingly. We do this very important and historical task by the authority of Parliament, by the authority of our Constitution, and we must do so. If we want to protect our democracy, if we don't want Parliament to be bombed again, if we don't want others to have a coup dream in Turkey, we need to take these steps decisively as Turkey. That's what we do. In fact, we should be appreciated for what we've done. You're doing the right thing, not the right thing to do. You're making serious decisions to save the state, the nation, our constitutional order from any danger or threat. You're doing what you need to do. You're doing important tasks for our nation and our government. I expected to be appreciated. That's how we take steps. When you look at the arrangements we've made, we'll see it clearly. You're responsible for doing what you need to do after you've realized that there's a structure in the state that's been massed inside the state as a state structure. Did Turkey realize that? I did. It's been said a lot here, it's been expressed at other times, it's been noticed before. I say this very clearly: Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the only political leader in Turkey who realizes that the founder and director of the Fetullahist terrorist organization and the terrorist Gulan.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0101par0294	Oh, come on, come on!
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0102par0295	He's the last leader.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0103par0296	What does that have to do with anything? Oh, my God! You've been warned for years, years.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0104par0297	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0105par0298	Mr. Gardener has already made statements about this. In the same way, CHP has its explanations, HDP has its explanations, other circles have its explanations in the media.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0103par0299	What were your arrangements at the time?
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0105par0300	But, bottom line, most of these statements are basically a counterposition due to a veiled or conservative structure, or the constitutional order in Turkey does not constitute a threat and a threat to democracy, the regime, the legal state. In other parts of the TSK, they were being cleaned up, but there were people who were being liquidated.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0106par0301	Whose honorable master was that man, whose?
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0105par0302	Now, look, we're saying this very clearly, very clearly. So we say, look, we realized that this was a great danger and a great threat, and from the moment we arrived, we were very clear, very clear.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0107par0303	You're too late.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0108par0304	You took a stand after the coup.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0105par0305	To protect our nation's law, to protect our democracy, we have taken very clear positions to protect our state, and we have paid a lot of prices, and we continue to pay, but we will wipe out Turkey from the elements of the Fetullahist terrorist organization and other terrorist organisations -- at least the government device of the state. No one, no one, should be worried about that. (AK PARTY) No state would agree that its people are connected to terrorist organizations or to act on their instructions, especially not to the state of law. No one in Europe or in the United States or anywhere else who is a member of the DEA or a member of the Al Qaeda terrorist organization or works for this organization, supports it as part of its duties and helps it, helps it, helps it, helps it in the government. Every state calls upon the constitutional order of the state and the law of the state, the structure of the state when it's run by the state. What are we doing? We're making decisions within the state about those who are considered to be connected to terrorist organizations, we're taking steps. Should we let them continue to recruit members of PKK or other terrorist organizations? We're just gonna let them fool students out of schools and brainwash you and send you away? No one can say: "The government separates its opponents from the public. We are making very clear that we are taking steps regarding those who have access to terrorist organizations, accession, or involvement, or support terrorist organizations. This is for administrative savings. Of course, there's one thing to do for a criminal trial, it's his law. The courts will, of course, do according to his code of conduct and regulations, but it is our duty to do so. It is the basic right of this state to take steps towards those who support terrorist organisations within the state in Turkey. No state can be forced to work with terrorists; no terrorist organization can be forced to employ those who are considered to be connected with terrorist organisations, or defectors in public. There are other decontamination laws in the world. We see the same thing in all of them. We're doing the same thing. In Europe, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is no different from what we are doing in the first place, as the Purification Act was implemented after the dissolution of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. That's what we're doing. As for the matter of judgment. There is, of course, an independence, a guarantee of judges and prosecutors within the judiciary. The 138th article of our Constitution states that the courts are independent. When the judges do their duty, they decide with a conscience bound by the Constitution, law and law. It doesn't leave the conscience independent. Why? A conscience, if it is not connected to a place, depends on the wind, religion, religion, ideology, politics; then a conscience is a means of persecution. He's got the Constitution, he's got a good conscience. What is it? It is the Constitution. What is it? It's the law. What is it? It's the law. A conscience that will depend on this place, a conscience that will make the right decision here. If not, he can make a decision based on a decision based on a decision based on a decision or a decision based on a decision. What did the Constitution do for him? He brought it here. Why does the judge's office provide collateral? It was done so that those in charge of the judiciary could do independent tasks, decide freely and bravely without any pressure, fear, or be a member of terrorist organizations, take orders from terrorist organizations, investigate, judge, or arrest. So we have to separate it from each other, and that's what's done. Under the independence of the courts and the assurance of judgment, these steps taken to destroy this guarantee... have been made in accordance with the law concerning those who would be deemed unfit to remain in the profession under Article 139 of our Constitution. It is precisely to protect the independence of the courts, to maintain the neutrality of judges, and it is a crucial step towards dissolving the nation's negative trust in the nation regarding those who are considered to be connected to the terrorist organization. That's what strengthens the confidence in the judiciary. I'd be offended if someone in the court considered that a prosecutor, a judge, or a member of the court who came to see his case was connected to any terrorist organization. So it's not right to let our people face something like this. If we are building the trust of the judiciary, the needs of the legal state, we must never allow the terrorist organization to hold the judiciary and the legal state hostage. That's what we do, too, to intervene in the taking of the judiciary and our legal state hostage. This is not an intervention in the judiciary. I want to underline him specifically. Another issue is abuse and torture in prisons. Hakkı Bey has just expressed that Turkey's prisons and prisons have zero tolerance for abuse and torture. I'm very clear...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0109par0309	This can't be happening.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0105par0310	If anyone says there's abuse, torture in Turkey's prisons. I say it's very clear, name the prison...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0109par0311	I did.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0105par0312	...who was it done, tell me, tell me where it was done, tell me when it was done.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0110par0313	Last week, Aydın Prison...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0105par0314	If we don't do what's necessary, then come back and give me the gene, then.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0111par0315	We told him, I gave him a name.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0105par0316	We told you, you didn't do what you had to do. We showed you the address, you didn't go to the address; we gave you a name, you didn't.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0112par0317	Last week I filed a motion to question Aydın Prison.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0105par0318	Let's go to prison, one by one, do we or don't we? We don't have one. We call it "No." Then whoever claims otherwise will say: "There is Ali, Veli, Bekir, Hasan, this one." Blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0113par0319	Hard Stalker.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0105par0320	If we don't do what's necessary, then you'll give us the gene. Now we say: "Do this. " There are names. I've set up a unit now in the General Directorate of Criminals and Inquisitors, who are combing both the Internet media and all the media every minute, looking at all the news about this -- there is, there is -- and they're making statements according to it. We don't cover it up, we don't cover it up, we send an inspector right away. We have our Ministry's Investigatorship Board, and we have the CTEC's controllers, and we have the Republican prosecutors, and we're going over all these channels, and we're doing what we need to do without hesitation, and we're going to keep doing it. We can't tolerate it. But no name, no address, no... where did this come from for the last two months? Following the failure of the July 15 coup attempt, there is abuse and torture in Turkey's prisons, with both the founder, leader of the Fetullahist terrorist organization, terrorist Gulen and the separatist terrorist group, the PKK co-operation and Turkey. CPT came in, he went through the prisons, they said some things to me, give me a name and I'll go after him. They said it was secret. They didn't name it.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0114par0321	E reports are classified, but it's theirs.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0105par0322	Look, I'm very clear here, and I'm telling you in the General Assembly, in which prison, wherever, whoever, please inform the state's attorney's office, report to the General Directorate of Criminals and Inquisitors, let me know personally; we will go after it, we will not look at anyone's eyes, we will not let anyone be looked at. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Everyone in prisons is in our care, their family is in our care. We are responsible for their health, and We are responsible for their needs. If there's anything missing here, we don't cover it up, we don't cover it up, we never let it be covered up, we never let it be covered up. I've had the news checked out, so far when I've had it analyzed, nothing really happened. And when he gets out -- and I'm very clear -- we'll go over it, we'll go public, we'll go over it, we've done this, we've done this. And then I want everyone to follow up on this unit at the Department General of Penalty because all explanations will also be made there.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0114par0324	Surveillance boards...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0105par0325	We're also letting the prison watch boards in, all of them, no problem. We've removed the monitoring boards, new ones have been established, and they're now in operation. It's all right. Human Rights Equality Foundation can study, ombudsman, Constitutional Court has individual application audits, Parliamentary Human Rights Commission, prosecutors' audits, execution judges' audits on complaints, appeals, and a complete audit. We've never run from it, we're not running from it, and we're not running from it because this is where we're strongest, why should we avoid showing it? We have no worries. I'd like to make it very clear from here that this is a big campaign. Our President's duties and powers are clear in the Constitution. What's he up to, Mr. President? According to the Constitution, he operates according to the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0115par0327	It's all right if he does it according to the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0105par0328	What does the Constitution say is that the 8th article, the executive authority and the task are to be carried out by whom? It's clearly written there.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0116par0329	He has to be neutral.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0105par0330	Look, who's going to do it? It is carried out by the President and the Council of Ministers. The Constitution gave them both together, and they didn't separate them, and he said... Are you ignoring this clause? It's here. Article 104 is the head of the state. It says, "The state monitors the harmonisation of its organs, the proper implementation of the Constitution." He says, "It gives important tasks." There are a number of duties to life, to conduct, to the judiciary. What is the President of Turkey doing? The Constitution uses its powers in accordance with the Constitution. Is there an obstacle to the Constitution's meeting with the Mukhtars? No. Is there any reason he can't open? No. Does the Constitution forbid him to attend a meeting? No. Is there a constitutional obstacle to his calling the Council of Ministers to a meeting? No. The Constitution authorises it. Mr. Sezer didn't use it, if he did. Was there a pattern? No. If only he had used other presidents. Is there any way to stop it? No. Look, after the election of the President of Turkey on August 10, 2014, it is his right to use all of these powers that exist in the Constitution, as well as the nation's great responsibility to him. He fulfills the responsibility. What I'm saying is to see the reality of Turkey. I've said it in the past. Otherwise, the president is acting contrary to the Constitution. I didn't say that. Mr. President to the Constitution... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and performs his own duties and duties under the administration of Turkey, which is in accordance with the Constitution. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0117par0336	Thank you, Mr. Bozdağ. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0118par0338	During his speech, the minister claimed that we had broken the truth, prepared the geneor and diluted the business based on afflicted information, and based entirely on his previous talks in the House. And he's invited us to be serious about it over and over again. He made an open taunt. We want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0117par0339	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0118par0340	Filiz Kerestecioğlu will speak for our group.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0117par0341	Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] You have two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0119par0346	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. President, our motion is clear. There are even people in our motion who are said to have been operated on by torture. There's torture in every prison, torture complaints everywhere.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0120par0347	Give me his name. Let's see.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0119par0348	We don't give you his name, we don't give you his name in all our proposals...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0120par0349	Look, anyone who's had surgery here, please tell me your name.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0119par0350	He's messing with my skin, Mr. Secretary. Will you extend the time?
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0121par0351	Please address the General Assembly, and I'll try to maintain the proper order.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0120par0352	Tell me, he doesn't exist. Tell me if you have it, and I'll do what I have to do.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0121par0353	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0120par0354	Remember his name, please. Nobody tell me your name, I'll do what I have to do.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0121par0355	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0122par0356	I'm not the Minister of Justice. If someone is the Minister of Justice, there is a responsibility in this country to prevent torture. Where is Mr. Metiner? He was sitting here. What did Mr. Metiner say, after the attempted coup attempt on July 15th, we will not investigate the allegations of abuse and torture from prisons.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0123par0357	You're lying.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0122par0358	What did you guys do about it? You're the one who's going to get justice. He can't stay on human duty. That's what all the papers wrote.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0123par0359	You're lying, you're lying.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0124par0360	Is everything in the papers true?
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0125par0361	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0126par0362	Don't you have a situation with the Constitution? If my mother had spoken it, she would have expressed it.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0124par0363	He's in custody. The man you call from the villa is living his life in the villa. What villa did he live in?
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0125par0364	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0126par0365	But a Minister of Justice would be in violation of the Constitution if he said there was no final presidency. It's not that easy.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0124par0366	He's in custody. He came out of the villa you call it.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0125par0367	Mr. Bak, please...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0126par0368	It's not that easy. You will answer for all of them, and there will come a time when you will be judged in this sense by violations of the law, and when you meet governments who say, "There is no torture, there is no torture."
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0124par0369	He left at Hurshit's villa in Erbil.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0126par0370	...we're going to take off again, we're going to say there's torture, we're going to investigate them.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0127par0372	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0128par0373	Mr. Metiner, please.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0127par0374	He called my name and said some things that didn't belong to me through false claims. So, I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0128par0375	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0129par0377	He's in prison. They said he was in the villa.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0128par0378	Mr. Bak, please...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0130par0380	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, even if you sit wrong, tell the truth. As they say, we sit both right and speak the truth. Speaking here on land propaganda may be appropriate for HDP. None of those words belong to me. In Turkey, the prisons of Turkey have those low-down, traitors who say that torture and abuse. I said that it was a black propaganda, that if tortured and abused, we would go after it as the AK PARTI power, and that we were more sensitive to it than anyone else, but we are more sensitive to it than anyone else, and that the people in its language and the people in its hands read the democracy of our great nation. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0128par0383	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0131par0384	You're the bloody one! You're the bloody one!
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0132par0385	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0128par0386	Mr. Akçay is in the system, I promise I'll listen to you later, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0133par0387	He's in custody, but he's at the villa!
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0128par0388	Mr. Akçay, come in, just a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0134par0391	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, Mr. Erdoğan mentioned Mr. Erdoğan in his speech as the first leader to notice the phenomenon of Å. Later, though, he tried to convey his opinion by mentioning the name of Mr. President, but, unfortunately, it was necessary to make some reminders, although there is no time or place. Mr. Erdogan is not the first leader to notice the event, perhaps the last one to notice and wake up to the event of the case of the Å was the group of leaders and groups of Justice and Development Party groups; this is historical truth. For the Constitutional referendum on September 12, 2010, then let Fetullah Gülen Hodja, the leader of this band of betrayals, rise up and vote yes when he says...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0135par0396	I'll give you one more minute. Please complete, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0134par0398	... When our President of State Bahçeli said that he can't vote in the grave in May 2010, he must come and vote from Fetullah Gülen Pennsylvania. Many political responses came from the Justice and Development Party Group, some of the ministers and Mr. Erdoğan. Again, in May 2011, when our President, Mr. State Gardener, told Fetullah Gulen to stop his activities, to come to Turkey, to respond to the allegations against him. Unfortunately, Mr. Erdoğan described it as an act of treason against Master Hoca. It was May 2011. Now, we don't see the time or place or the need to discuss this. However, some historical truths should also be noted. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] While there's more to be said about this, because our time is not enough, that's all I'm left for now. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0136par0403	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0137par0405	Mr. President, the speaker who just spoke from the stand has accused our party of carrying the land propaganda of the Fetullahist organization here and of insulting us, as well as of blood on his hands.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0136par0406	Let's hear it for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0137par0410	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. It's clear in his speech on this stand how seriously his youth has been taken by the Minister of Justice. Look, here's a page and a half of text. The Minister of Justice has stated from this stand that he has not even read a page and a half of the text. My talks in the court say so. Yeah, there's only one sentence on a page and a half, but other than that, there's all sorts of practices about the violations of the State of Emergency, the detention, the arrest, the torture allegations, all the practices that have completely eliminated the existing legislation, the legal regulations, the arrest of judges and prosecutors. Any citizen passing through the street using a single sentence wouldn't have been involved in his gene, but when you used it as Minister of Justice, we changed the regime. We have now pushed the Constitution aside by the back of our hand. When you say, "It will be here." Therefore, whatever Bülli Yıldırım is serious about this matter, it is your approach and your seriousness to this gene by not reading this gene. Now, I'm not going to respond to any attempt to connect the Fetullahist organization to the HDP. What did they want, and what didn't they want? Who's the building that gives them all the city's resources, all the city's resources, and the public's resources under their feet? The whole of Turkey knows the public. And as for the blood on his hands... who started this whole bloody process because he couldn't be president in this country after the June 7th election? Turkey knows the public. It's either the presidency or chaos. Give me 400 deputies, and we'll settle this in peace.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0138par0415	It's stale, it's stale.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0137par0416	...Suraçta, Diyarbakir, Ankara, Surağda, Cizre, Silopi. Their blood is not enough. Now Musul is preparing to conduct expeditions to Rojava. The more I bleed, the more people think the game's going up, the more blood they're covered in blood, let alone your hand, up to your throat.
tbmm-2016-11-01sit02spe0139par0418	[[Applause from HDP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Talks have been concluded on whether or not the motion to ask about Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ will be brought up. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes on whether or not the motion to be brought up. All those who have agreed to the motion for the motion to be brought up... those who have refused... the motion for the gene is not accepted. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
