tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 8th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, today is the Independence Day of the Republic of Azerbaijan. Twenty-five years ago today, on 18 October 1991, our Azerbaijan brothers declared their independence and founded the Republic of Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan and Turkey are two separate states but are one nation of the same culture, speaking the same language. Azerbaijan, the first Turkish state in the Caucasus, founded during the most difficult period of the Ottoman Empire, Anatolian Empire, and Caucasus, was the first Turkish state in the Caucasus, the shining star of the region today's unity and unity, and has always been our sister country in history as it is today. On this occasion, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey celebrates the Independence Day of our Azerbaijan brothers on October 18th, sending greetings and love to all of our Azerbaijan brothers from here. [[Applause from CHP and AK PARTY]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan, who asked for a statement about the breakdown of the ecological structure in the Black Sea region. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have recently witnessed the last of the great catastrophes, which are the direct product of the natural destruction and looting policies for the sake of the capital, you know, in Tripoli. And when the valleys were changed, and were set up in the paths, and in the waters, and were not able to find a channel to flow, they fell into the flood, and swallowed up their habitations. What happened in Tripoli was not the first example of such catastrophes, and it will not end until the fate of capital is blacked out and it has halted its Rant policies. IN THE Black Sea, these landscapes are inevitable when the AK PARTI government combines with the opening of dams, dams, and Black Sea Coast Road, with the construction of riverbeds and the killing of natural vegetation with tea farming. Dear lawmakers have placed several HESs on every stream they have seen in the Black Sea, as they have seen everywhere. Representatives of the vocational rooms say the EC PARTY is able to license a stream for 10 HES, and there are those who take advantage of HES incentives, even for rivers that do not exist. Given the fact that 15 dams and 166 HES were planned in the Artvin region that suffered a major disaster last year, it is not difficult to predict the disasters that will occur in the coming months and years. It's the tradition, society and history, which is the product of a great historical process, which is actually what's behind the physics and ecological reality that comes to mind when it's said by biodiversity, forest and plateau -- specifically for the region. In fact, it is closely related to the spiritual formation of societies. With horons from social ecology data, if you don't see the existence of a tradition that comes to this day with songs, you're wrong, and you're going to fall for the runt projects. Dear lawmakers have also understood the importance of natural, ecological society, which rejects the possibilities of capitalist modernity. Therefore, the region rejects these Rant projects, which it knows will destroy its culture of life, as in Green Road, it does not want electricity as well as roads. During meetings with representatives of the people of the region, in fact, it has become a consciousness that the roads that have been made are made for the production of minerals and energy under the cover of tourism, and that those who make the roads are no longer well-intentioned. The Black Sea Coast Road inevitably blocks the flow of rainwaters into the sea during heavy rains, destroying the operation of the system by moving between creek beds and valleys. As the coast roads and streams remain in place as they are today, the loss of lives and goods from floods in the cities of the Black Sea arises not as fate, but as a natural consequence of the failure of the EC PARTI government. In a geography, such as the Black Sea Region, which has been rained on for most of the year, this is the result of even greater disasters. We'd like to warn the government once again. As the Black Sea Coast Road stands at its place, the cities of the Black Sea are at great risk, along with the creek beds as well as the streets, parks, squares and schools. Dear lawmakers, another important issue is forest fires. Fires in Adana, Yozgat, Muğla, and finally Hatay show that instead of putting out fire policies, you need to speed up the prevention policies. According to statistics, about 1,600,000 hectares of forest were destroyed in a fire from 1937 to the present day. And, of course, the forests that you burn down, especially the forests that you burn down, are outside this area. So we're facing an average of 1,028 forest fires every year. In each fire, 23,924 hectares - 239,240 acres of forest - are burned to the ground. From Istanbul to Kahramanmarash, we have about 12 million hectares of forest in a 1700km-long, 160km-wide band, all at risk of fire. It has recently been privatised for forty-nine years, 10 million acres for different sectors. This area is 10.84 per cent of Turkey's facial measurement. For what? For luxury hotels, for gold mines, for quarry, for factories and graveyards. The prevention of forest fires, the discovery of the elements that caused the fire, and the forest that was damaged by the fire again ecologically... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I call on all the authorities to make a living, and I salute your statement.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0003par0025	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Manisa MP Mazlum Nurlu, who wants to talk about the problems of the Manisa farmers. Here you are, Mr. Nurlu.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0004par0030	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the woes of our Manisa farmer. I salute the General Assembly. Remember, last year's pre-election political power made a huge effort to prevent the price of agricultural products from going down, to increase export opportunities, with fear of losing votes. The raisin was sold for $6, and the table olive was sold for $5. Our villagers thought this order would continue, but they voted for the AKP in good faith. However, the election is over, the political power has forgotten our farmer. Tarish reduced the price of grapes from $6 to $3, today the olive average is $2. Dear lawmakers are a product that should be considered important to us because 90 percent of the grapes are produced in Manisa. In Manisa, the olive producers are also struggling with a severe crisis. Our export of olive oil was 22,000 tons in 2013, and last year it was 15,000 tons. The Izmir Trade Stock Exchange issued a statement with deliberate, high, and afflicted data that caused the market to panic, causing prices to drop, and then last year, lawmakers announced the price of grapes as $6,000 last year, which the government of the Tarish Grape Union declared from the manufacturer, due to its ineptitude. What a sad situation, grapes cost $6 in 2015 and $3 in 2016. In the past few years, Tarish has bought grapes to number seven, but this year he's not buying grapes under number eight, and he's missing at least one in quality type identification. Agricultural loan co-ops, which the government supposedly employs to keep the price balance in the market, also pay the same price as TARIST. On top of that, they don't take the grapes under 8.5, which are stricter in purchases than TARIST. Congressmans, the world price average of raisins is 2,400-2 per ton. Why is it down to $1,000 in our country when it's $500? I'm asking you, what happened in our country when the price of the Persian grape, which was sold as Turkish grape, was $1,900, was not kept in Europe, and was mixed with Turkish grapes in the Mersin Free Zone? Has diesel prices dropped, fertilizer prices dropped, pharmaceutical prices dropped, labor costs dropped? On the contrary, they all received a separate raise. I'd like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: why in this country would the trade market of traders be able to buy these products, not in agricultural rooms or the Department of Agriculture? Congressmans, our province of Manisa is ranked 1st in the positive value of agricultural production at around $4 billion in our 81 counties. In Manisa, more than 700,000 per cent, 90 thousand families earn their living from producing grapes. Manisa, with 21 million olive trees, is an important source of olive production. From 2002, when AKP came to power, the number of debtors to banks rose from 1.6 million to 13 million, and the farmer's debt to banks increased from 5 billion to 61 billion. According to official deeds, 47 per cent of the country's farmland has become mortgaged by 60 per cent of the land in Manisa. In terms of agriculture, the knife has gone beyond the bone, and now the knife has entered the bone. Just as the political power that is responsible for this painting from 2002 to today, we will place it here in the community. If the contractors can erase the tax debt of $425m, then the master of the nation must also address the farmer's problems. Therefore, the postponement of debt by farmers, including private banks, must be done by deleting interest. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0005par0041	Thank you, Mr. Nurlu. The third non-responsive statement is from Adana MP Necdet Ülüvar, who asked for the appointment of the Independence Day of the Republic of Azerbaijan on October 18, 1991. Here you go, Mr. Unüvar.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0006par0046	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm starting to wish you a good week. Dear friends, today is October 18th. October 18th is a historic day for me in two ways. The first is the 25th anniversary of independence by Can Azerbaijan, beyond being a friend and a brother. Another important thing is the 96th anniversary of the liberation of Saimbeyli, a small, very important district of our Adana. Azerbaijan gained his independence twice in the last century, one in 1918 and the other in 1991; a country that has gained independence twice in one century. In 1918, Kafkas gained independence through the great efforts of the Islamic armies under the rule of Nuri Pasha. Eight thousand trained soldiers were gone, and 1,300 were martyrs. When you go to Baku Martyrship, you will see Musullu and Malatian, Aleppoli and Hatayli, Kosovo and Adana, Kerkuklü and Kayseri lying side by side. In fact, Baku Martyrdom tells us: "What are you doing in Iraq, what are you doing in Syria? Of course, Azerbaijan gained independence in 1918, but the Soviets again occupied Azerbaijan on 27 April 1920. The invasion of Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) was not coincidental, nor were Turkey's attacks over the centuries because we live in a very troubling geography, but what is not coincidental is that the Turks will never be imprisoned. We never accept captivity. As a matter of fact, Azerbaijan became independent both in 1918 and 1991. We who have made the state of Anatolian geography their homes have never accepted captivity. As a matter of fact, on July 15th, we proved in Parliament that we would not accept that captivity with the AK PARTY, CHP, MPHP, citizens who took the flag on the street, and that we would not leave this country to the treacherous coupgers. So, dear friends, if we join hands, if we endure, there is no power we can never defeat. Courage and solidarity is the way to gain independence and protect it. We saw this in Baku's defense in 1918, in 1920, in Saimbeyli's escape from enemy occupation, in 1991, in Azerbaijan's regaining independence, and in the repelling of the July 15 coup attempt. Then we'll be brave, one and one. It's the only way to be a nation and stay a nation. I, the victorious commander of the Kafkas Islamic Army, Nuri Paşaya, once said to Mehmet Emin Lezade, the first President of the independent Azerbaijan, Ebulfez Evbeye, the founder of modern Azerbaijan, and the founder of thousands of modern Azerbaijan, one nation, two states. I also wish to grant to all of our citizens Haydar Aliyev, the owner of the proverb, Haydar Aliyev. May God never again allow Saimbeyli to fight for the day of salvation, nor to fight again for the independence of Azerbaijan. Until eternity and the end of the day, both Azerbaijan and Turkey are free, independent, prosperous, I salute you all with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0007par0054	Thank you, Mr. Unüvar. According to Article 59 of the Civil Code, non-responsive talks have ended. Now, I'm going to take turns making promises to lawmakers who are asking for word by entering the electronic system. I'm starting the promise process. Dear Yým...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0008par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. The baneman-Crill road, which began nearly thirteen years ago, is still unfinished. We're calling back to the Minister of Transport here for the immediate end of this long process that has become a laughing stock on Facebook. The way of Cirril-Dinar has never begun, the roads around all of Dinar, the sea road, even though the road to Afyon is finished, there is still no digging in the road of Dinar-Cychar, not even a machine has entered. We're warning the Minister of Transport to start this life-threatening road as soon as possible, to take the necessary precautions from here, and to get it on schedule as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0009par0064	Mr. Erkan Aydın...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0010par0066	Thank you. Tens of thousands of workers are working in trade unions, low wages, subcontractors, as part of the Community Benefit Work Programme. About 8,000 of these workers work for five months and twenty-nine days under Law 5620. Many of the workers who worked five months and twenty-nine days have worked for many years. These workers, under Law 5620 of the Forest General Directorate, are involved in many tasks, such as firework and doser operators. Although these workers have been promised a staff, they have yet to take a step forward. He wants the government to listen quickly to the voice of the temporary forest workers, so we say we stop subcontractoring.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0009par0068	Mr. Sibel Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0011par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. The time has come for all of our schools to become like imam-gap high schools. Now we're gonna fill the mountain with an imam-hatred rock. Each imam-hat will have an Anatolian youth study at the door. Unfortunately, these words are not from an association or the head of the congregation, but from Shakir Vojvot, who was appointed assistant director of Kabataş Male High School as part of the schools. This shows that the Ministry of National Education has gained range of secular, democratic, scientific education and destruction of its institutions. I'm calling to inform Mr. Secretary that this vice principal must be removed from his post immediately before further delay. Laik, democratic, scientific educational institutions, project schools, please withdraw your hand. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0012par0073	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0013par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on October 29, 2010, the Lifeguard Tunnel, which was based on Artvin, connects Hopa. Despite the fact that the project will be completed in nine hundred and ten days, the Minister of Transport, who is now Prime Minister, has made a deal, a handshake in the history of the tender said that the contractor will be finished in two years and two months with the firm. Although seven years are up at the coming point, even though we are close to seven years, the mystery remains as to when the tunnel will open. I was just there yesterday, and it's really in a state of uncertainty when it opens. I told Mr. Secretary the situation. Immediately, there is a necessity for the opening of the Lifeguard Tunnel, which connects Artvin to the Black Sea. We demand that the government show the necessary sensitivity in this matter as local lawmakers. The uncertainty of this matter must be eliminated immediately, and that is what the locals expect. I wanted to share this with Parliament through the High Assembly. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0014par0078	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0015par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, Ankara Governorate announced that any march and rally on the grounds of security has been banned until November 30th. What's interesting and what's sad is that there are no security issues at the bridges and tunnel openings of the EC shows, but when it comes to celebrating our national holidays and the remembrance of our Great Leader, Ataturk, there are security problems. As each national festival approaches, AKP's mindset tries to make us forget our national festivals, our republics, and Ataturk. Remember that the more you try to prevent the October 29th march, the more enthusiastic we celebrate our Republic Day, the more you try to block the roads leading to the Memorial, the more we destroy and crush and cross those barriers with our people, the tighter we cling to our ancestor.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0016par0084	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0017par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to Mr. Mehmet Özhaseki. In 49 counties, you stated that about 11,000 hectares were declared a risky zone. What is this data for the province of Adana? Which counties are covered? When will such studies take place in these areas? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0018par0089	Dear İbrahim Aydemir...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0019par0091	Mr. President, thank you. In the 100-year struggle for independence of Azerbaijan, the flagless Mehmet Emin Lezade, the hero of the Kafkas Islamic Army, Nuri Pasha, and Azerbaijan, the first President of Azerbaijan. We are grateful for the relationship between Turkey and Azerbaijan, the modern Azerbaijan. We also extend our gratitude and respect to Mr. President Ak, who has registered this brotherhood as a mark on global history. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0020par0094	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0021par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. The province of Niğde lives on agriculture and livestock. The province of Niğde has been taken out of the scope of the European Union's Rural Development Project and has been victimised according to the surrounding provinces. Nicde, who was excluded from the IPARD, was unfortunately forgotten in the model of support based on the Basin-based production that the Prime Minister explained this time. The government announced it would form breeding areas, which do not include Niğde. The studry has been announced that pregnant heifer production centers will be implemented, and the province of Niğde has been excluded. The breeding ram does not include Nüğde in the cities to build single production centers. The breeding buffalo production centers were not included in the cities of Niğde. Animal control stations have been announced, Niğde has not been thought of again. The province of Niğde lives on agriculture, livestock. The province of Niğde, which is not included in the European Union's Rural Development Programme (IPARD), is also forgotten in projects related to animalism. Why is Niğde being deprived of the support provided to environmental cities in agriculture and livestock? Agriculture and livestock...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0020par0099	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0022par0101	I celebrate the 25th anniversary of the independence of Azerbaijan, a friend and brother country. From Ankara, to Baku, to Gence, to Shusha, to Kelbecer, to Abdam, to Sheki, to Kusar, to Kuba, to Nahçivan, and to Karabağ. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, on October 18, 1991, Azerbaijan re-established independence after a 70-year break-up, re-establishing a large and powerful country in the region. For Turkey, the first country to recognise Azerbaijan's independence, the 25th year of independence won by Azerbaijan in 1991 is undoubtedly one of the most important events. Azerbaijan's national leader, Haydar Aliyev, and Turkey are two states of one nation. He said, pointing to impossible cultural, social, economic and political ties between the two countries. The friendship of Azerbaijan and Turkey will last forever and our glorious flag will never land again. On this occasion, both in Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) and in Turkey during a historic period, he remembers all of our martyrs who sacrificed their lives for their country and nation with mercy and gratitude, and I wish all of our security forces who fought the PKK and the YPG. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0023par0104	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0024par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. I object to the Ankara Governor's celebration of the republic on October 29th and to ban the remembrance of Ataturk (Ataturk) on the basis of the State of Emergency by considering it as a rally, as a demonstration, as a march. With this ban, we have seen once again that the government does not use the State of Emergency to fight the people; rather, it uses it to fight Ataturk and the republic. I expect Minister of Interior Süleyman Nobleman to ask the governor for an account. Otherwise, we're going to assume that you took this ban from him with a face, and we're going to put him in charge of the ban. Such bans will never stop us. On October 29th, we will celebrate the republic, and on November 10th, we will remember our Ata. I expect our people in squares and fields on October 29th. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0025par0109	Dear Maker...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0026par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. The uncertainty of our workers who sought peace for his country, who had been suspended from their children's right to education, has filled the 39th day. In our talks with the ministry officials, we have come to an end in investigations, we are about to conclude. Comments such as these are being made. But so far, we have not seen any developments in the situation of our teachers. The government has to explain why they haven't stepped up and why teachers haven't been reinstated. If you have a sense of responsibility for the public, you will explain when you will end the injustice you have created, and as long as you do not explain, my stand belongs to our teachers who have been suspended. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0027par0114	Mr. Imran Sword...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0028par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. The effects of technology on children: although technological tools contribute to the education of children and young people and provide unlimited means for them to study, they sometimes experience information and experiences that are not appropriate for their development. Children and young people can learn negative information through these tools, monitor violent behavior, develop alcohol, cigarettes, and gambling habits. In particular, long-term spending in front of computers can cause some physical problems, visual problems, regression in language skills, epilepsy seizures in some children, and academic success based on reading, and problems in brain development, depending on positions of posture and sitting in the age of development. On the other hand, Internet and similar habits have a negative effect on the child's success and self-esteem in social life. The lack of zeal and initiative, the lack of concentration, the lack of endurance, the appetite of a monkey.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0027par0119	Mr. Eseyan...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0029par0121	Mr. President, as it is known, the two-year-old Mosul operation began as of yesterday. With the support of the Free Syrian Army, he has made and carried out Turkish warnings that this operation, which began immediately after Dabak took over Dabak, would not fire a new sectal fitnah and that the ancient peoples of the region would be kept from their homes. Turkey, as in Syria, does not adopt a sectarian strategy, as claimed in Iraq, but warns coalition forces, especially in the background of the operation, against those trends in this direction. Turkey cannot allow the creation of terrorist corridors and satellite states just beyond its 1,250km-long borders to result in the death of innocent people. Therefore, all parties in parliament should adopt local and national rhetoric at this crucial point, without the material of the imperial forces accusing Turkey of a sectarian policy. On this occasion, a friend and brother celebrate Azerbaijan's day of freedom, and give my love and respect.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0030par0124	Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0031par0126	Mr. President, the other day, the Minister of Labor has announced that public procurement will be treated as a cheapskate and the purchases have been stopped. As many disabled citizens await second purchases, it has been disappointing to have such a decision as 1,500 disabled teachers hope to be appointed. I call upon the government, that if you do the real miserliness in the court's grant, you will also fulfill your duty to create employment for the disabled by the social state, thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0030par0127	Mr. Ahrazoglu...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0032par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. On June 27th, I asked Mr. Minister of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey about my position, and on September 4th, Prime Minister Bazili Yıldırım announced 202 billion lira East and Southeast Anatolian District incentives covering 23 provinces. Unfortunately, Hatay, who was in the first 20 percent tax ranking each semester, did not get the place he deserved in the euphemism packets. The civil war in Syria and the political migration with it affected the region's geography, which borders Syria, and especially Hatay. Do you think that the problem with Syria will be added to the package of incentives that have not yet been published by Hatay, head of the cities most affected by the economy, tourism and unemployment? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0033par0133	The last speaker is Mr. Mountainer.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0034par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 96th anniversary of the liberation of Adana Saimbeyli district from enemy invasion. The Saimbeys, who were under French occupation during the Liberation War and were subjected to the persecution of Armenian gangs in the region, cried out once again that this nation could not be struck by the legacy and future shackles, under the leadership of Saim Bey and Captain Doğan Bey. On this important occasion, I remember Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, Mr. Saim Bey, Doğan Bey, and all our martyrs and all our veterans who have arrived in eternity, with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. I hereby salute all my people of Adana, especially the Saimbeys. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0035par0141	Thank you, Mr. Mountainer. One minute of conversation is over. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the presidents of the group who are demanding a word. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0036par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. The operation, which has been discussed for weeks, began last night. One of the most controversial issues was whether Turkey was involved in this operation. In his speech today, the Prime Minister announced that Turkish jets were involved in the air operation in Mosul. However, we are witnessing an effort has been made to keep Turkey away from the operation of Mosul, both from the Iraqi Central Government and from other actors. It is not acceptable for Turkey to stay out of the table and field in Mosul, historical, political and geopolitics. Developments in the region are an important issue for Turkey's security. There is nothing more natural in the face of this fact than Turkey's right to self-defense. More importantly, the demographic structure of every city of Turkmeneli, especially Mosul, is threatened. The potential for ethnic conflict is high in the region and in the city. Turkey can't stay out of this operation while the wealth and interests of the Turkmen population are threatened. The government must take concrete steps to ensure the presence of the Turkmen population in the region, to ensure peace and peace. Today is the anniversary of the independence of Friend and Brother Azerbaijan. On the day of Azerbaijan's first declaration of independence in 1918, Mehmet Emin Lezade said that the flag raised once would never land again. The flag did not land. On October 18, 1991, Azerbaijan adopted the Constitutional Act on State Independence of the Republic of Azerbaijan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0037par0152	Mr. Akçay, please, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0036par0153	Despite twenty-five years of independence, Azerbaijan's territorial integrity has not been established, and the occupation in Azerbaijan territory continues. Our Azerbaijan brothers, who make up more than 10 per cent of the country's population, have been displaced and are still refugees. Hopefully, the day will come when the Mountain Karak will be freed from captivity, from occupation, and will be united with his homeland. Once again, I want to express our faith and will that friendship and brotherhood between Turkey and Azerbaijan, which are based on unwavering foundations, and that the cooperation and cooperation of one nation, in line with two states, will grow forever. I hereby celebrate the 25th anniversary of Azerbaijan's independence, the 25th year of compassion and gratitude to the members of the National Movement for Azerbaijan, who worked for the independence of Azerbaijan, especially Ebulfez Evobbey, Mehmet Emin Lezade, who devoted his life to the struggle for freedom of Azerbaijan. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0038par0157	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0039par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the racist, nationalist, sectarian foreign policy, which the AKP has been carrying on for 14 years, unfortunately Turkey is dragging it into a major regional war. First military intervention against Cerablus and Syria, and now, despite the will of the people of the region, the states of the region, and the coalition forces there, a draft intervention for Mosul is sought to be addressed in Turkey's wake, as a warning of unprecedented major disasters. We, Neoosmanian, with an adventurous understanding that we find that the poor children of this country are sent to the Middle East to die there and that we find it unacceptable to have a nationalist rule removed from this place, and we find it extremely wrong.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0038par0162	Mr. Baluken, just a moment, sir. Members of parliament, members of the Parliamentary Union for Islamic Co-operation (İSIPAB) members of the Parliamentary Union (İSIPAB), which is visiting our Parliament as an invitation to our Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the delegation of parliaments and some MPs from 15 countries has now arrived to our General Assembly. (Applause) I, on behalf of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey, welcome you to the delegation. [[Applause]] Mr. Baluken, I had to interrupt your conversation. I'll rewind the time. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0040par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the racist, nationalist, sectarian foreign policy that the AKP has been carrying on for 14 years has unfortunately dragged Turkey into a major regional war. First, the military intervention against Cerablus and Syria, and the desire to be involved in a military intervention against the people of the region, the states of the region, and all the coalition forces that are there today, in spite of the will of the coalition forces, is a warning of an evil course that will result in a rapid disaster by the AKP's hand and perhaps the loss of tens of thousands of poor Anatolian children in the Middle East swamp. We find it unacceptable. Since the beginning, we have stressed that the AKP's Syrian, Iraq and Middle East policy had been put into action with a non-stop Neosmanist, a hegemonic understanding, and that there would be no solution, not a solution, but a lack of solution; instead, we should lead the peaceful, diplomatic, political solutions that would lead to the people of the region. Today, we want to emphasize the same principled position, the same principled context. Out there, the occupation is paid back by the government, with the understanding of the State of Emergency, only by the greater bills. We therefore feel that these existing policies should be discussed in the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0038par0175	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0040par0176	Imagine that the country is in such danger, but so far, the government's officials don't even feel the need to bother the representatives and show up and discuss the matter through a brief discussion in the House. It shows how much I did it, how much I did it. It shows how close the country is to its fundamental policies. On the other hand, as a result of the ongoing State of Emergency, however, social, political, economic life faces new crises every day. There's an unmanageable situation. We're dealing with a major instability, a crisis. Imagine that all meetings, demonstrations, press releases are banned in the country's capital for 40 days, but even the reason for that is for the Turkish Grand National Assembly and Turkey's public opinion. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is not expressed by government officials. We feel that both inside and outside we are concerned about this trend, that we should immediately give up this understanding, that democracy, peace and stability should be shaped by domestic and foreign policy, and that we are calling on the government to give up these wrong policies. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0041par0181	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0042par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is Azerbaijan's day of independence, October 18. A nation, we salute the people of Azerbaijan, whose friendship and brotherhood we maintain with two states, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, and congratulate them on this blessed day. We hereby honor and cherish the first President, Abulfez Elçibey and the late Haydar Aliyev. Mr. President, I would like to draw some attention to the developments in Mosul. You must be blind to not foresee the three important outcomes of the developments in Mosul. According to U.N. data, there is a risk of a wave of migration that could reach up to 1,200,000 and head for Turkey with great intensity. Gene, there is a risk of ethnic conflict in this region, especially since the beginning of Turkey -- despite all our warnings -- that could spread throughout the region as a result of ethnicist policies. However, we predict a very long and very civilian-lost conflict environment waiting for us. In such a painting, both Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister's statements, which contradicted them from time to time, did not have a clear perception of Turkey's Mosul policy, nor of the world's public opinion.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0043par0189	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0042par0190	We demand that the government inform the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as well as the Constitution immediately and immediately. We believe this request is a very legitimate request, a natural demand. However, we regret to see that politics -- which I always say, is a matter of kindness and conscience -- is therefore the government's lack of civility towards the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, so I leave it to the discretion of the public conscience. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0043par0192	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0044par0193	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0042par0194	Power doesn't talk!
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0043par0195	You have a request, Mr. Turan. Since I can't see it in the system... Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0045par0199	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, as our group presidents have expressed, today is the 25th anniversary of what we know as a friendly and brother country, where we are proud to see the two states as a nation, the Republic of Azerbaijan declared its independence by leaving the Soviets. We celebrate this blessed day for Azerbaijan's brother and sister, whose fate is one. In addition, Mr. President, as our other group presidents have stated, you have begun an international operation aimed at getting Mosul out of ISIS and handing him over to his rightful owners. The militia and the Air Force, which we trained in Başika, were part of this operation. We wish our soldiers the success of this operation. I hope it's a successful living week. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0046par0204	Thank you, Mr. Turan. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly During the 1924 Constitution, it is known that the central administration has consistently increased its hegemony on governments. We demand and demand that Parliament investigate the Constitutional Court under Articles 104,4,5,5, and 105 of the Constitutional Charter of the Constitution, in order to investigate how much of the resources that the local governments of the ruling party have transferred to their ruling party, as well as to how much of the assets they have. HDP Deputy Chair HDP Group Deputy Chair The curfews declared by the government on the grounds of life and property security have caused hundreds of lives to be lost, thousands to be injured, hundreds of thousands to be displaced, and billions of dollars' worth of financial damage. Reforms are spoken in Turkey either right after the conflict process, or they come to the agenda in the middle of the war to increase the bans. During the ongoing conflict, the AKP is developing reform rhetoric to destroy the powers of local governments. What is hidden under the name "Reform" is more authoritarianism. The AKP, which has tried to do legal work to establish authoritarianism against self-government demand, has in parallel detained and arrested dozens of mayors elected by the public as wills, hundreds of city councilors. While the government's steps are being evaluated, there is a constant tendency to turn back. The basis for regulations in the area of local governments is the transfer of authority and budget to the ground. In 1808, the autonomy of local governments was consistently strengthened in almost all the steps taken during the two-hundred-year process, from the Prussia Cities Charter, which was the foundation of modern governments. So that 70 per cent of the laws adopted in the European Parliament are intended to meet the demands of local governments. Turkey, however, is behind modern democracies, with its agenda on bans and restricting authority. The total number of city municipalities has been raised to 30 by Law 6360. By this law, all cities in the city's municipalities have been closed in accordance with the population criteria in some cities that are not built in the capital city. Given the criteria for sharing between municipalities, the share of the general budget tax revenues has shown that very, very developed provinces have little resources. The districts of İstanbul, Ankara and Izmir are divided into the provinces of Turkey, where the municipality's share is 1.5 times higher than Mardin and Diyarbakır, with the least developed provinces, Ağrı and Mush and Bartın are 1,93 times higher than the provinces. Given the capacity of municipalities to create self-inflicted revenues, it has been seen that the per capita share of municipalities can be five times greater than the low-developed provinces. Democratic intolerance towards local rulers of opposition parties deepens the country's problem area. According to the ruling spokesman, the government is planning to implement a number of practices that will stab the municipal authorities. In order to bring these plans into play, the individual administration also provides an excuse for the democratic rights demands described as. The municipalities of opposition parties are constantly under pressure for imaginary reasons, while government member local governments have the freedom to have and to commit crimes. According to the ruling spokesman, the province's private administrations, which were lifted by the Metropolitan Law, will be restored. In the current situation, the state's private administration in 30 major cities is closed. However, in these provinces, YICOBs have been established, and transactions such as mineral licenses have been transferred to these institutions. These institutions are practically incumbent on the Prime Minister's (professional governor) as the disabling of the elected bodies of the state's private administration. These institutions are already authorized to work, such as the local government, if necessary. We demand that a parliamentary survey be opened in an effort to investigate custody, financial difficulties, and to expose corruption in municipalities from the institutions that allow society and state structure to live freely within a system. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the problems of redevanised mining enterprises, we propose and propose the opening and opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution 98th, Turkish National Assembly's Institution. 05/01/2016 1) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] 4) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] 6) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Erzurum]] [[Inconceived]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] 12) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Osmaniye]] 15) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] [[Isparta]] [[Samsun]] Private sector companies contribute greatly to national and local economies with the production of coals that have been redevans since 1989, in places not considered worth producing by Turkey's Tashkomu (TK) in stone coal basins. In the Redevans coal fields, 4,600 people were directly employed by private companies in 2014, as well as a $175m share of the SGK employer, and the TTK received 250m in refusals and various taxes over 25 years. In addition, by transferring serious funds to the sub-industrial industry, the industry has increased intrinsic employment and the local market is alive. Between 1989-2014, private companies produced 9.5 million tons of coal in redevans. From the beginning of the Redevans application, production increased year after year, and in 2011 it increased over 1 million tons. The coals that were produced were offered to the iron steel industry, the thermal plant, industry and fuel, but the local energy share was increased, and coal imports were slightly prevented. After the Soma accident, Bag number 6552 adopted the law to increase labour fees to at least 2 minimum wage levels, reduce weekly hours by 20 per cent, increase annual pay permits, and ensure the early retirement of underground workers. As a result of these regulations, many businesses have stopped production in redevans, and the number of jobs at 4,600 has been reduced to 1,500. The labor costs of pre-law labor have increased to $3,650. Such implementation of the law has led to the halt of production in redevant fields, which have already cost much, and even cost much, and many redevant fields have stopped operating. Labour salaries, SGK shares, and TTK have become unrefundable, and the city's economies have suffered major injuries. In addition, the sector has become unable to cover the heavy costs of the regulations imposed by occupational safety regulations (forced private insurance, personnel monitoring system) after the Soma accident. The Mining Law, which was published on February 18, 2015, and the Amendment to some Laws, was determined by the Council of Ministers on the charge of paying the cost increase in redevance contracts and the price difference. Despite the government's promise of the price difference, the Council of Ministers' decision published in the 23/5/2015 newspaper states that the additional costs in the redeveloped areas will be limited to the amount of rejection. According to the Council of Ministers' decision, the calculations show a cost of $22 per ton. However, with this arrangement, not even half of the cost of a 60-dollar ton bill to businesses can be paid. Following regulations with the law, regulations for subterranean mining workers who work under heavy conditions must be maintained, preventing a large portion of the additional costs imposed on workplace owners from providing local coal production by the state and making our country an imported coal paradise. With a new arrangement, the problems involved in the sector must be resolved. To this end, workers, labor unions, employers and mining engineers have joint demands and proposals; - Under the cost of coal production, the price of coal per ton is subsidized, preventing businesses from working for harm and paying additional costs, - Underground mining companies are benefited by a parliamentary study to investigate problems in redevant mining enterprises, in order to ensure that the additional premiums will be paid by the state and so on, and so on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose the opening of Parliamental inquiry in accordance with Article 104th and 105th Amendments of the Constitution in order to help prevent new massacres that could be carried out by investigating the Ankara massacre in all dimensions of the most life-loss in the history of the Republic. On 10 October 2015, a decision was made in Ankara to organise the KESK, DİSK, TMMOB, "Resisting in War Peace Right Now" called. HDP, CHP, EMEP, Revolutionary Party, SYKP, ESP, EHP, Greens and Left Future Party, HDK, People's Houses, June Movement Association, Peace Bloc, Peace Mothers and many other political groups, NGOs, Alevi organisations, Women's Organizations and Citizens' Democratic Party of Peace, said they would strongly participate. On October 10, 2015, tens of thousands of people who wanted peace began meeting in front of the Ankara train station from early in the morning. Unfortunately, two bombs were detonated on the street at the rally point in front of Gar, about 50 to 60 meters from each other, three seconds apart, which would affect about a thousand people on the same line. In the explosion, 100 of our citizens -- each from a different part of Turkey -- have lost their lives and more than 400 of our citizens have been injured. Developments by ISIS in the form of a suicide attack have raised strong doubts that the massacre took place within the knowledge and approval of the AKP's power. Although prior to the rally, the committee met with police officials and urged security measures to be taken in front of the station, which is a place of gathering risks, it was clear that no measures were taken against the law in front of the train station and on the march route. Immediately after the explosion, security forces intervened to cause the injured to die, not in the time of the riots, the lawyers were brought together, the prosecutor came to the scene too late, the evidence came to the scene too late, the evidence was not secured and collected on time, the immediate confidentiality and gag order regarding the incident was imposed on the ground where the institutions organized the Emek, Peace and Democracy rally were prevented from being sent to their homeland in the wake of the explosion the day after the explosion. It soon became clear that the people responsible for the massacre were ISIS, and Suruç and Diyarbakır were linked to those who carried out the attacks. A member of the Ankara massacre, Yunus Emre Alagöz's brother, Sheikh Abdurrahman Alagöz, who committed the Suruç massacre, was soon revealed that they had crossed police checkpoints without a problem when they came to Ankara for the massacre, and that his name was on the list of suspected live bombs that appeared before the press and public. The government has the names of those who carried out the suicide attack and were not consciously arrested. Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu attended a television show on 12/10/2015. "There is a list of people who can commit suicide in Turkey. You follow, but you can't intervene until the moment that such an act takes place." In its form, he made it clear. From day one, the back curtain of the massacre by government spokesman, especially the President, was obscured in the form of cochlear action. A serious perception operation was tried to be led. All of this proves that the government does not want its own responsibility, negligence, or the criticism of its policies that provide the basis for the massacre of gangs, to be deciphered and exposed. Ankara and Suruç massacres are also a clear message to Turkey's democratic forces. These actions are much better understood in our present environment, where they are aimed at digesting, suppressing, and disseminating social opposition in Turkey. In Turkey, it is possible to prevent massacres, stop deaths, develop and strengthen democracy and freedoms, but only if society can see the facts in all its dimensions. Every massacre, covered and blackened by truth, is unfortunately a harbinger and maker of even greater slaughters. If the attack on Diyarbakir had been revealed in all its dimensions today, the Suruç massacre would not have happened. Similarly, if Suruç's massacre had been uncovered, the Ankara massacre would not have happened, and the painful process we face today would never have happened. Therefore, it is important that the Ankara massacre be revealed in all its dimensions. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey also has a huge task and responsibility. The discovery of the Ankara massacre with all its dimensions is crucial to the understanding of the heavy war conditions we face today, preventing greater incidents and massacres, reaching the climate of justice, democracy and peace that Turkey yearns for. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 18/10/2016 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's 418, 388, 405 and 341 of the Law Bills, which are included in "Objects of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions", is to be taken into the ranks of 2, 3, 4 and 5th, respectively, and the order of other tasks according to this one; The meeting of the General Assembly on Tuesday (October 18, 25th) between 2016 and 1, 8, 15, 22nd and 29 November 2016 was not discussed on verbal questions and other audit issues, but was discussed on the agenda in "The Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; On Wednesday (October 26, 2016), 2, 9, 16, 23 and 30 November 2016, the unspoken questions were not discussed; On Tuesday (October 18th 2016) until the completion of the talks of the Court of the Law, number 412, in the merger of Tuesday (today); On Thursday (October 20, 2016) until the completion of the talks of Bill 418; 25, 26, 27 October 2016, 1, 2, 3, 8, 9 and 10 November 2016, 24 p.m. on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. To continue his work until 00; Law Bills 418, 388, 405 and 341 were proposed to be considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code and to have its sections in the following ruler. A Proposal of the Rehni Rehni Law for Trade Operations [[1/753]] [[1/687]] The National Ministry of Education's Law on the Agency and its duties and the amendments to certain laws and laws shall be made in accordance with the law. [[1/721]] [[1/669]] Now, I'm going to meet your demands on the Justice and Development Party proposal. In favour of the proposal, the first speaker is Bkent Turan, Çanakkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0047par0334	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I made a commitment in favor of our AK PARTY group's proposal. As we've just been read, we've given our group's offer to our Parliamentary President to determine this week's work schedule and our study schedule in October-November. According to this, we will continue today to discuss the remaining part of the ruling on the constitutional ground, which we did not meet last week, which served as an important step in the fight against Å and other terrorist organisations. As of tomorrow, we'll begin to discuss the Proclamation of the Moving Rehni Law, which you've all been closely following and the public is very curious about. We know that in order for the markets to relax, our Prime Minister passed it on to the public at his meeting on the economy in August. Right after that, we'd like to bring in some arrangements, such as the bill of expert ownership, and the Agency Act of our National Ministry of Education. We said we'd discuss the decrees under the law with our other parties. If there are relevant commissions, studies, and revisions, we'll discuss them together in group. I'd like to say that our invitation to this is valid. Besides, you know that some of the KHKs had also made arrangements for the demands of the members of the opposition party's presidents. We don't want to eat grapes, we don't have to deal with the laces. We want to do business, we want to produce. While we do not find it right to smother all of our parliament's agenda with the KHK, it is our duty to discuss all the Turkish Cypriots and to get the opposition's views on them. I hope, using the economy of procedure, considering the time savings, that we may be able to discuss all of the ordinances in law enforcement by not neglecting the laws that society expects of us as soon as possible. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today is a special day for us. On 18 October 1991, the sister country, Azerbaijan, which won independence, is the state Independence Day of Azerbaijan. I would like to take this opportunity again to congratulate all of our Azerbaijan brothers. You know, as the Republic of Turkey, we are the first to recognise the independence of Azerbaijan. It's a proud occasion, a proud step. I'd also like to express that we're fortunate because of this pride. The joy of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is our sorrow, our sorrow. His saying in this clearing is a beautiful expression and a beginning that shows that the two countries, in terms of friendship, have continued their fate union from yesterday to today. Dear friends, in other words, I'd like to clarify a matter that has just been expressed and expressed in the position of more than 20 of our representatives under the Civil Code. You know, by November 30th, our Ankara Governor made a ban on demonstrations and march. I understand you have concerns about that. However, in this concern, I consider it a far-fetched approach, as of October 29th, to say that this decision was made so that the values -- so to speak -- should be ignored by the common denominator of the entire community, such as November 10th. November 10th is a day of mourning for all of this country, and it's precious to all of them. I don't think it's right to think of it as a day when a party will remember it and other parties won't. October 29th, Hakeza is the name of the foundation of this country. A party about this is sensitive, but others aren't, and I don't find it right. This decision by the governor's office is never about October 29th, nor is it about November 10th. As you all know, the November 10th style, October 29th-style celebrations, ceremonies, mourning, special days, is organised by a special law. The Law on Meeting and Show March is another Law on 2911. I mean, it's not a law and it's not a forbidden issue. So once again, freedom is fundamental, constraints are exceptions. This restrictions can be criticised. We know the reasons for this, we expect empathy from every NGO, every party, and we expect sympathy from each party, but I want to ignore the right reasons for this ban and take it into a different position and interpret it as if we all had a secret job in our common denominator, like November 10th. The ceremony and memorials of that day will be made, officially, with the participation of each party, but there is a problem in our geography, up to Mosul, there is an ISIS threat, there is a PKK threat. Our security forces have a very intense concentration of this. We want this concentration not to fall apart, we want this concentration not to break down, we want the workload not to increase, so to speak. Of course, freedom is essential, of course, rituals and walks are essential. We are a party that has made a decision so far, which has made a change in legislation and brought the basis of the declaration; let alone ban, we are a party that wants the best of freedom, but I would also like to say that we're going through special processes, that we're going through extraordinary times, that a significant part of our army is currently serving in Syria, Iraq, and there are similar threats. That's why we're doing this so we don't take any steps to disrupt the concentration of our security forces because we have four or five parties at the same time, our NGO wants a demonstration, they want a walk. We want our security forces to do their job now, so I'd like to share it with you. And I hope that all of our parties, all of our NGOs, will empathize with this measurement. Again, I wish you a successful, peaceful living week, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0048par0351	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Against the proposal, İdris Baluken, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0049par0355	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all on behalf of my party group. In fact, at the beginning of each speech, we begin to form sentences by expressing how meaningless the AKP's group proposal is. Because in an environment where parliament is completely dysfunctional, Parliament will be completely out of commission, Parliament loses its excitement, Parliament lines are completely empty, we need to express that the AKP government is also satisfied with the current situation, except to bring group proposals to save the situation. So even the lack of a single clause in the country's historical developments in the working hours, working agenda, or working calendar that they brought in here today is crucial to how the AKP will reveal its approach to this Parliament. Imagine that they're dragging the country into a major regional war in the Middle East, and since last week we've been trying to run a agenda in Parliament with certain calendars, with certain hours, but they haven't come up with any information about this until now. Even as we take the country to war, we have an understanding that even as Enver Pasha drags the country into great catastrophes with his head on the ground, it ignores the will of this House. We don't think it's such a coincidence that both AKP and Erdogan are trying to adapt both the political parties and the community to this, since they are very consciously predicting a regime change in which this Assembly is going to take place, so they're trying to impose fundamental things on this community that will no longer be discussed here, that will not be discussed, that will not be on the agenda, that will be on the agenda here, that will be considered for this place, that there's an upper custody area for all of us, unfortunately. I want to express it from here, from the very beginning, that we found it unacceptable. Look, there are three major crises in the country today. One: there's a major political crisis. Two: there's a major regional crisis. Three: there's a major economic crisis. When did the political crisis begin? From the day of the June 7th elections, the coup of the people's will, 80 million people have never seen a day, not a day's peace of mind. The society, which woke up in a relaxed breath on the morning of June 8th, was unfortunately exposed to the attack of a nightmare, a nightmare, from June 8th. Today, think about it, from Suruç massacre, from Ankara massacres to Sultanahmet. From the massacre at Ataturk Airport, from the deployment of the war concept that we saw in Sur, Cizre, Silvio's example, to this day, from Syria to Iraq's war tamts to the regional crisis that makes him feel more and more, Turkey's society was driven into a great chaos, a great conflict, a great war environment. I'd like to emphasize once again that this is a very conscious choice. Right after the coup against the people's will on June 7th, you brought this Parliament with you the law that lifted its parliamentary immunity and brought immunity to the military. The day after the president ratified it, thanks to you, three political parties and military parties who approved the immunity of MPs had to fight a major coup attempt, and instead of taking the right lessons from that coup, you turned the July 15 coup into a counter-plot, so you brought the chaos of three coups and three crises into this country in a conscious way. The 7 June coup, July 15th coup, and the reciprocal coup -- the civilian coup -- brought on the political crisis, the regional crisis and the economic crisis. Look, that's why Congress lost its excitement because it's not functional. No matter what argument you have here, decisions for the country are being made elsewhere. Whatever results come out of this, the will that comes out of this place with a KHK is ineffective. Look, we've warned the ruling party many times. A Prime Minister who received 49.5 per cent of the vote has been dismissed without his knowledge, and you've endured it. Many ministers have had to learn from television that they've been relieved of duty, and you've watched it happen. Well, look, there's no changing the current course of action when you're watching them. Now, look, the new Prime Minister's political life isn't long, we'll see it together. You can come out now and answer, but you had the same reaction when we said that Davutoglu would be dismissed soon. Now, look, the Prime Minister himself says that I have signed a controlled freedom by accepting the Prime Minister, and I've accepted him. For once, the use of such a sentence is a confession about his political life. ▪ Investigated freedom means to go and sign and be free in return for it.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0050par0361	That was a joke. Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0049par0362	Where does the Prime Minister sign? He's already trying to practice Turkey's society, where he goes every day, where he signs off one day, where he doesn't have his own political future, his political life. When he doesn't please the person he signs every day, one day when he watches the news on TV -- which won't be for a very long time -- he'll suddenly learn that he's been relieved of duty, just like the rest of us. That's what you did to the country. There is no stability, no solution, no peace, no peace. Because the current political power has no such will. In the meantime, you're trying to justify any kind of illegality to society by putting universal law norms on the shelf. Well, in all the universal law criteria -- look, there are lawyer friends -- there's a concept that you've eliminated the personality of crimes; you've eliminated something called the right to defend; there's a concept called safety of life and property; you've eliminated it; there's a concept called purity, you've eliminated torture in prisons; you've tried to explain torture to society through your members of the Human Rights Commission as a procedure that needs to be done. There's no way a solution, a peace, a peace from the environment you've brought the country into. Now it's not enough to fight inside, you want to drag the country out in a big regional war with Neosman dreams. Enver Pasha's adventurous foreign policy led to the deaths of hundreds of thousands of poor Anatolian children and the destruction of a vast empire, and now what the AKP is doing is nothing more than sending the children of Anatolia to their deaths with the same adventurous spirit to their own power here. But I would like to stress in particular that it is not possible for you to draw any conclusions for the good of this country that you are in charge of your own power. In Syria, and in Mosul, what you should have done was to pioneer peaceful diplomatic efforts, resolution efforts, based on the will of the people of the region. To do that, you should have developed a policy that would lead to inner peace, the Kurdish issue inside, the peoples of Syria and Iraq, especially the Kurds outside, but instead of doing that, you're dragging the country into a major regional crisis with El Nusra, with Ahrar al-Sam, with ISIS, I don't know, I don't know, with a bunch of gang formations that the whole world is considering from a different point. We'd like to point out that the path you're going is not the way you're going. We're just filling in time here, but I salute you all, saying that this is unacceptable and that the people will surely intervene in this process, that Parliament will surely remind Erdogan and AKP.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0051par0365	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0052par0366	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0051par0367	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0052par0368	Mr. President, just for the record. Our change in president is a decision taken by the party's executive boards, as they say, custody...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0053par0369	No, dear, with instructions from the palace...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0052par0370	Sir? No, you tell me...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0054par0371	You go ahead, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0052par0372	Let him tell you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0054par0373	Mr. Turan, go ahead. Is it over?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0052par0374	Mr. President, once again, I don't think it's right to take the stand because I've responded to this matter in a manner of speaking in terms of the time economy. The matter of our Prime Minister's change is a decision made by the executive boards of our party, a decision discussed in congress within democratic ground; not as they say. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0054par0376	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0055par0377	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0054par0378	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0055par0379	I'll put it in the transcripts. So even one day before Mr. Davutoglu was dismissed, he was telling the public with great appetite about his plans for the future, all of us. The last thing I remember, he was going to turn the Wall into Toledo, but the next thing he knew, he was in Toledo. I've been promised to identify that situation.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0054par0380	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. In favor of the proposal, Master Erhan, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0056par0384	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Now, we're talking about AKP's group proposal here today regarding parliament's work schedule. Of course, he was seen again last week, almost every week there's a work schedule. Of course, it's good to do a show, but it's important to stick to the program. Unscheduled, unscheduled, unfortunately, it's everywhere the AKP is, so it's done, it's broken the next day, it's done again, it's done again, it's done nothing. Turkey's problems are great, friends. Big problems can't be solved by such day-to-day approaches. So look at the same thing, we're seeing in these parliamentary studies, and I'm going to talk about a little medium-term program, and there's the same thing, and there's some work in the plan, but there's a day-to-day policy, there's a day-to-day approach, there's a day-to-day solution to the issues of the country. We are suffering that this cannot be resolved, that every day the country's problems have increased exponentially. Where do we live? We live in terrorism, we live in foreign policy, we live in economics. So, we have to go with a little bit more planning, a little bit more programming, and we have to make the plans that we've done, the programs that we've done, and then we have to show the will to apply them properly. I strongly recommend this to the Justice and Development Party government. Now, as of yesterday, the 2017 budget was submitted to parliament, and last week the Central Future Program was announced for 2017-2019. So what we're looking at here is what was done in the medium-term program, just sum it up for us in one sentence. What we're going to say is that Turkey's structural problems continue to increase. That's exactly what the government's mid-term programme is about. Why? Because in the medium-term program, especially compared to last year, we see growth reduced and the current deficit increased. So, actually, when growth goes down, you have to reduce the current deficit in the economy, but you reduce the growth, you increase the current deficit. This means that this problem, which we have a structural question for, and that this problem, which has been raised in the period of Justice and Development Party governments in the last 14 years, will also increase and will increase in the next period. It's a big confession, a very important confession. We have to read it this way. Now, of course, we don't have enough time for the economy because the agenda is too hot, but people's problems are getting worse. I'll be right back with their details. Now, of course, speaking of the medium-term program, we also had the tenth Plan for Development, and there were no talkers, no talkers. This government brought the Tenth Development Plan to Parliament in 2013, and began implementing it since 2014. 2014, 2015, 2016, the third year of the plan is over, folks, two years to go. At the moment, none of the seriously predicted work has been done in the plan. Let the government say that we have carried out this much of the measures and policies that we have written in the Tenth Development Plan. That's not gonna happen. We can't run a country like this. After that, we wonder why Turkey's troubles are increasing. So, Turkey's biggest problem is the management problem, Turkey's biggest problem is the direction of the Justice and Development Party, and we need to see that. Now, as of yesterday, employment data has been released. I mean, you're looking at employment, especially in the last three months. Look, I'm not saying unemployment is increasing, unemployment is already increasing. You know, there was a growing unemployment earlier, but there was a certain increase in employment. Now, in the last three months, we've seen the job fall particularly. Of course, we're talking about seasonal corrective numbers. Nobody try to explain this on July 15th. Look, this data we're talking about is April, May, June. Now that it's July, there's a bit of July 15th effect in July. So, we'll see the July 15 effect from now on. Now, in the last three months, employment has decreased by 300,000 people. The number of workers in Turkey is falling by 300,000. So, think of it this way: our population is increasing 15 plus 865 thousand people a year over age. So, our working age is increasing by 800,900,000 people, and 650,000 people say I'm going into the labor market and I want a job. But we, despite that, can't increase employment, jobs are falling. The unemployment rates were 11.2% as of last month, according to seasonal corrective data. These are very high unemployment rates, two times the average unemployment rate in developing countries. I mean, I've spoken on different occasions here before, so here's the window of demographic opportunity. We have a young population, and Turkey has to evaluate this young population. In 2000, Turkey entered this window of opportunity, which means Turkey will see the opportunity given by the population to the nations in 2000-2030. It's been 15 years, 15 years, so to speak, wasted. At least in order for the remaining 15 years to be productive, Turkey needs to set its long-term goals in order to do a series of planned, scheduled jobs within the framework of these goals. We now refer to the 2023 targets. Again, the mid-term program registers it. I've already told you so many times here, and I've presented it to you on the stand. I mean, look, there's no more 2023 targets. I'll just say one indicator: the government's revenue target for 2018 was $16,000 per person in the plan, and now it's in the middle-term program, $10,000. Look, you're aiming at $16,000, $10,000... where if we keep the same trend here in 2023 -- I'm saying with the assumption that there won't be any crisis -- it's $12,500 at the most, it's $13,000, you don't know, it's $25,000, it's our goal. $12,500 is possible, under the best conditions, if Turkey is taken away like today, with today's trends, with today's trends, it will come to $12,500. Who's gonna pay for this? When $25,000 was targeted, it was not a dream for Turkey, but the AKP destroyed Turkey's dreams. I need someone to tell the President about this, and I don't think our voice is going that far. Mr. President, we're still going to meet his goals in 2023 when he talks in the ashtray or talks in other places. He's saying something in the form of a 2023. I mean, you really have to tell me about it. If he is a believer, then the government must not withhold it from him. If he speaks out of ignorance, I do not know it, and he is responsible for himself. I mean, so... Now, we said employment. In employment, especially industrial employment... look, Turkey can't produce, Turkey has to bring in a lot of the goods it used to produce from abroad. We need to figure this out. We say we need to increase our technology level. I mean, we've given up on increasing technology level, even low-tech products can't be produced in Turkey. So, even though our growth has fallen -- I'm not saying this, the medium-term program says this, the government says this -- your current deficit is increasing because your exports are falling, your imports are increasing, and there's a shortage of financing. That's why your interest is 10%. So, in an environment where zero interest is discussed in the world, in an environment where negative interest is discussed, Turkey has to pay 10% interest and it can't expand its economy, though. We need to see these, we need to figure this out, we're all in the same boat. As a member of this country, as a citizen, one's heart aches when you see it, but you're looking at it, still three times a day, five times a day, and everywhere, there's always the envy, the patronage... how far will we go with this eunuch? We need to take a look at these. Now, the citizen's debt is up to his neck. So you're looking at how long it's been since his credit cards? In fact, consumer loans, credit cards, all of which, when you look at them in bulk, you owe $720 billion to the household. Look, they were always comparing 2002, and they can't talk now because, in fact, Turkey is performing far below 2002, where the Justice and Development Party is taking over. So you've raised the debt from 8.7 billion TL to 718-720 billion TL. Give me one more indicator, 100 times the increase, and one more on the outside of the debt. You know, he's very curious, and the Prime Minister is doing a comparison here over 60 years ago in inflation over TL. So, let's get another number, what's up 100 times? I mean, you raised the debt. We keep saying foreign debt, Turkey's external debt has increased dramatically. So, $130 billion in foreign debt went up to $421 billion. They've always said, "Sir, don't talk about foreign debt in numbers. They're comparing it to the TL. It's not a flaw. So, Turkish lira because there's inflation, so that's the same thing as $1 today, 20 years ago? It's not. They're talking about it, and when you talk about foreign debt in dollars, sir, you don't talk about foreign debt in dollars. How do you talk about it? Let's talk in proportions of national income. Look, Turkey's external debt increased according to 2002, when you took over a national income rate. So there's an increase of about $290 billion from 129 to 420, and it's also increased by the rate of national income. So there is an increase in Turkey's foreign debt, much more than the increase in national income. So, the group proposal... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unplannedness, lack of programming, has brought Turkey to this point. I invite the government to be more planned, more scheduled. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0057par0402	Thank you, Mr. Master. Engin Altay, İstanbul MP against the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0058par0406	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. I've been promised the Justice and Development Party's group proposal to organize the Council's business calendar. First of all, I can give you a note here that this proposal is not very up-to-date, that it's not very physical, that the Justice and Development Party will come again next week with a new proposal that regulates the hours of the Assembly. It's a job the Justice and Development Party has always done. We have to say to the esteemed rulers of the Justice and Development Party: politics has certain understandings, politics has written and unwritten rules. This is how we change the agenda by trusting the majority of fingers in the parliament -- some non-written agreements -- without consulting with other political parties, without agreeing with them. The approach is not true. We reiterate our request that the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey be discussed immediately, depending on the provisions of Article 121, and Article 128 of the Constitution of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which counts as the Constitution. However, there is a study about it by Mr. Turan. I also hoped that when I saw that they were missing too much of the kHK, some arrangements would be made, some positive changes would be made. And by the way -- in the general group proposal -- we'll take a final good faith step tomorrow by showing to the ruling party what a positive, constructive, well-intentioned opposition is, perhaps, because we've been looking at the "Transporting Rehni Law Bill" and we know that industrial and commercial citizens are waiting for this law. But from now on, my wish... is to determine the agenda of Parliament, of course, of the majority party. I'm curious to know how you're going to come up with an 85-point national education bag and the idea and test property rights -- 180, I think -- without your opposition agreement. It is the understanding that sustains this country. It was so on October 29, 1923, in the Sivas Congress, and in Erzurum Congress. I wasn't going to talk about it, but I was thinking that maybe after our central board meeting tomorrow, we could go public, but -- we're going to talk about it here -- it's a good thing Mr. Turan is referring to the decision made by the governor of Ankara. On this occasion, I would like to demonstrate our understanding of this matter. If a country can't celebrate its national holidays because of the threat of terrorism, then woe to it, woe to it, woe to it! And when the government of that country, the government coming out of the Parliament, his deputies, comes here and says, "We're the descendants of a nation," he'll stop showing off for once. The martyrs of the Battle of Salvation will be hurt by the bones of those who built the republic. You would be the greatest disgrace in the history of the Republic. Not celebrating a holiday because of a terrorist threat, my brother, is not in this nation's domain; this nation has fought against a tank, against a cannon, against a sword and a rifle. I don't know what's going on here. Of course I agree, with the republic and the Ataturk, 90 percent of the voters who voted for the Justice and Development Party have no problem; the problem is in your head, some of the top executives of the Justice and Development Party. The voter who voted for you and the voter who voted for the Republican People's Party has no problem with Ataturk. You don't have a large majority -- I think you've got it wrong -- some AKP people have problems, so we can discuss them here with their own statements if you want. There's no need, there's no need to discuss it. Did you not change the law so that we could move national holidays from status to street? And you did it partly right. I mean, isn't it right for you to gather the children in the stadium, plant the child in the living room for three hours and listen to the governor, the governor, the mayor, the mayor? You're the one who said, "Let people celebrate in the street, let them celebrate in the square." It was you. What just happened? Sir, there was a threat. There was a threat, there was a threat in Çanakkale, and there was a threat in May 15, 1919, and all the mercy of the Battle of Salvation was full of threats and risks, and there were greater risks today than you were taking. If this nation had left such threats, there would now have been 16 separate state flags in this land. [[Applause from CHP rows]] - Where's the government? I'm-I'm asking the government. Of course, our party will also make a decision tomorrow, but I personally am in Ankara Square on October 29th. I expect you there as well. This republic is not our republic, it's our republic. Everyone must remember that he owes his presence here, his breathing, to the martyrs of the Battle of Salvation, to Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I consider it a betrayal, and we consider it an ingratitude; it is impossible to accept. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And I'll tell you this: July 15th is very valuable to our democracy, to the parliamentary system, very important, very important. But we have a new gain that makes the 15th of July that important. What we haven't told you in ten or so years, under the unwritten rules of democracy, is that the right to resist is one of the legitimate rights by July 15th, which we haven't been able to prove. So this nation, with the AKP, with the CHP, with the CHP, with the MP, with the HDP, against the coupgers on July 15th, when there was a complete uncertainty in the country, as the Prime Minister used the right to stand on a state land and repel the coup when the President was on a plane, on October 29th -- if the government does not take a step back -- will use its right to resist, no doubt. Don't stress Turkey; Mr. Minister, don't camp Turkey, don't confuse people. If he can't celebrate Republic Day in a country, let's get that flag down from that pole! (HPP) On the anniversary of the death of the founder and savior of a country, the people collectively cannot go to the tomb of the founder of the country, the leader of the country, the savior, the country is not independent, brother. I believe the Republic of Turkey is a fully independent country, and the Republic of Turkey will continue its course as a fully independent country. I'm giving a sincere, friendly, well-meaning warning from here to the government. Congressmans, this has nothing to do with you; it has to do with the higher mind, the government or the government's superior mind. I don't know about that, I'm dealing with the government, and the Minister is here.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0059par0421	We're going to celebrate. We're going to celebrate.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0058par0422	Minister, I'd like to invite you to Kızılay Square on October 29th.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0060par0423	The future, the future.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0058par0424	You're the Minister of the Republic -- we know, we're fine -- I expect you to show it to everyone there.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0060par0425	The Minister will come.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0058par0426	I repeat: if the Republic of Turkey is unable to celebrate its holiday due to a threat of terrorism, may it be good luck to that republic, and may it be good luck to that state; I don't need that state. This country must take care of this nation's republic and of the Ataturk, together with all of you. It is your duty, our duty, to do so, as regents of this noble nation first. I hereby again warn the government. On October 29th, the Day of the Republic must be celebrated in a more glorious way, in a more glorious way, in a more dignified way than it has ever been, and the mission falls first to the government. Yes, there is one thing you're quite right about, not the Republic and the Ataturk Republican People's Party. Both the Republic and Ataturk and secularism belong to the Turkish nation. But it is not in his heart that there will come to be mad ones, deviants, disbelievers, betrayers. On October 29, 1923, there were counter-revolutionaries, and now there are ninety-five years later; the difference is that at the time, the counter-revolutionaries had cizlavit on their feet, in their present feet, they had a knife in their heads; they had a yellow, fez on their neck; there was such a difference. But we, with you, in the nation, will not all go against the revolution, against the coup, we will live forever on the secular, democratic republic. I trust our Parliament. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0061par0431	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0062par0432	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0061par0433	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0062par0434	Mr. President, just for the record. NO AK PARTY administrator has a problem with November 10th, October 29th. These values are our values, the values of the nation. However, the measure that was taken is a matter of concentration of our security forces, which I've explained for a very long time, and I've shared their reasons. What concentration! Therefore, we respect the government's decision. Again, I don't think it's right for us to have a political camp through our common denominator, to create rhetoric. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0063par0439	Thank you. It's been filed, Mr. Turan. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/918) I respectfully submit my original Law Proposal to be brought directly to the agenda under Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yes, Özkan Yım, Uçak MP will speak on this proposal, given under Article 37 of the Civil Code. Here you go, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0064par0453	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Council of Ministers, my fellow congressmen, and my fellow citizens of the Holy Republic of Turkey who follow us, I salute you with respect and love. First, I'd like to express my undying gratitude to Mr. Engin, my Deputy President of the Most Valuable Group, and we're definitely a 100% participant in your criticism. Because it's really a disgrace that a nation can't celebrate its founding date, the Republic. So I'm particularly redrawing from here that we're going to celebrate October 29th in all of our provinces in a much more efficient way. On March 27, 2015, there was a Law No. 5018. What's this? The president's use of covered funds. Yes, my fellow lawmakers, I'd like to ask you first: Mr. Prime Minister, who runs the state, Mr. President must not have a secret job; he will not have a secret job, so there should be no covert grant. For this reason, I would like to read to you in particular this text: the use of legal funds, including closed intelligence and closed defence services, and it is not an expense pen for irresponsibility, even though it depends on the legal basis for the privacy of the funds. However, the presidential office has absolute responsibility for its position, and on the other hand, the presidential office is not an authority to produce political solutions at the point of implementing steps to address the main logical framework of covering funds. Our constitution is clear on the President's neutrality and the irresponsibility of conduct. Under these provisions, the use of a covert grant of the presidency is incompatible with the representation of this office and makes the position's place in the system legally controversial and controversial. Therefore, the right to cover funds reserved for the presidency must be removed immediately, and the principle of neutrality, which is constitutionally binding on the presidency -- I underline it from here -- and only the Prime Minister and Cabinet's executive position should be restored, reassembled. I mean, not all the funds that the President has used, not secret, but covered funds; all the funds that he has used should be controlled by the Prime Minister and the Cabinet. Why? Because the rulers of this country are the ministers and the Prime Minister representing the current government. So, Mr. President is sitting at the top of our republic. Therefore, we stress again that all the budgets he used for the Republic of Turkey, all the expenditures are definitely controlled by the Prime Minister and the Cabinet, and that they are being properly used in the way necessary. Therefore, to ensure that the President does not lose the principle of neutrality, the rights of all citizens living in the Republic of Turkey must be known in a transparent way, especially to the citizens of the Republic of Turkey, and to all MPs, who should not have the power to maintain the dignity of that office. Therefore, those who run the Republic of Turkey must not have a secret job, and since there will be nothing hidden, I believe there is no need for hidden funds or covered funds. That's why we demand the immediate removal of the secret grant, the covered grant. I salute you with respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0065par0460	Thank you, Mr. Yum. The other speaker, Tanju Özcan, is Bolu MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0066par0464	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I, as the second deputy, stand before you to explain my thoughts on this proposal of the law. Actually, lawmakers, the proposal is very clear. Mr. Özkan Yim expressed his thoughts about the covered grant. Indeed, a democratic state must be transparent in its spending. In that sense, the heart wants us to raise the covered allowance completely. However, in today's terms, when this proposal is examined, we at least ask that it be limited, since we know that you will not call it yes. What is said in the proposal: "Orderary funds cannot be used in personal expenditures and political parties' management, propaganda and electoral needs.") Which one of you will say no? You shouldn't say no. So, why was this suggestion brought up? We're giving you intense doubt that in recent times and during your administration, both Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President's covering funds have increased in large amounts each year, and that a significant portion of these covered funds are being used in political work and personal expenditures. We don't trust you with the covered funds. We don't have to trust you as a citizen, but if you say that the state of the Republic of Turkey is a democratic state, the expenditures should be transparent. Like us, you will not say no. You will certainly say no. You will say yes. I think so. Mr. Osman Bak doesn't think so, I can tell by the way he looks.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0067par0467	Oh, yeah? Don't be coy, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0066par0469	Congressmans, I'd like to be on a warning mission on a matter or two while I've received your word. Congressmans, we've been fighting for three months. You're saying that, right? In fact, there's no fight against ا, I'm warning as an MP -- it's done as if there's been a struggle with the MP; that's done in Anatolia, that's done in Ankara. Now, what's going on in all our cities? Public officials are expelled from work for sending children to their schools, arrested in some cities. Is it true? That's right. There was a bank called Asia, and I want to remind you who cut the ribbon, just that picture. There are people in this country who have been fired from work, discharged from public office and arrested because of the bank's salary from Asia. You're not fighting the poor, you're fighting the poor, you're fighting the poor, you're fighting the poor, you're fighting the poor, you're fighting the poor, you're fighting the poor, you're fighting the poor, you're fighting the poor, you're fighting the poor, you're fighting the poor, you're fighting the poor, Now, you're not gonna like what I'm saying, but this has got to be political, you have to be sincere about it. Why do we call it political foot? Yeah, it's all over the place, isn't it? He infiltrated the hospital, infiltrated the post office, infiltrated the military, infiltrated everything. So, who leaked these things around here? Who runs the country? It's run by the political institution, it's run by political authorities. Now, you sent children to their school. Why are we trying to stop you from discharging that public official, who gave this school a license, which political license, which political party's minister gave it to you? Wasn't this Bank Asia a legitimate bank until July 15th? Why didn't you forbid it? In fact, some public officials invested the salaries of employees in public institutions with this bank, and he withdrew his salary from there. Why don't you do anything about this bank -- let alone the ones who don't operate -- let alone the ones who don't.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0068par0474	I'm looking, Hajji.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0066par0475	I'm sorry, lawmakers, but in this regard, I see that the AKP is insincere, I think, and I say it everywhere.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0068par0476	You're wrong.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0066par0477	You'll go on political foot, you'll go on foot; you won't be afraid of it. We also know that you have priors, and we know how you walk hand in hand, arm in arm with this structure. We also know that you're afraid this will come out. But fear doesn't help at all. Look, it's in the press all the time. We also see that the past reports of those who have done so have been true. 80 AKP MPs are said to have used ByLock. Now, I'm here to make a clear call to the MIT, and to the Ministry of Interior: Is this claim true or not? Let him say it. Send a list of all the politicians to every political party, every political party that uses ByLock! (HPP clapping in rows) Let's find out who's in charge, not who.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0068par0479	Don't believe everything, don't believe everything.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0066par0480	Look, if there's 80 MPs among you, and you're fighting these people. If you're claiming, I'm sorry, I'd just say it's a shame. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0068par0483	Yeah, look at your own party.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0066par0484	I'll check it out. I'll check it out.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0068par0485	Mind your own party. Tell me if it snows in Bolu.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0069par0486	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0070par0487	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0069par0488	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0070par0489	Mr. President, I'm going to write it down for the record. We're discussing what the government does with our friends from time to time. The president is constantly informed, and the CHP and our other friends. We don't think it's right for the Congressman to speak so unconcernedly. His claim to 80 ByLock will then suggest: "Let him give his document, and let him give his knowledge.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0071par0492	That's it.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0070par0493	In our documents, no one in our group has a ByLock. Otherwise, he'll have to prove it. Then we get the right to say, "We don't have it, you do." That would be a pointless argument, a useless one. It's not right to speak by heart. This suggests that they have made a different claim on the security of our state regarding the fight against ▪. We find it very dangerous. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0072par0495	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0073par0496	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0072par0497	Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0074par0498	I didn't.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0073par0499	Mr. President, in reference to my speech, the AKP Group has accused the Deputy Chairman of speaking out of turn.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0072par0500	Here you go, Mr. Ozcan. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0074par0501	Then let's always take the stand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0073par0504	Congressmans, what's the point of this conversation now?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0075par0505	You're pressing charges! You're making accusations based on false news, you're making accusations!
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0076par0506	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker, sir, please.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0073par0507	Now, you all know where the press got the news about this. Look, I made a very clear call.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0075par0508	You're accusing me!
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0073par0509	I made a very clear call, and I said, does this state have MIT? I do. Does this state have an Interior Ministry? I do.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0075par0510	And on December 17th and 25th, you came back, and cried unto all, 'Thief!' You're talking!
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0073par0511	Let him go out, send these lists to every political party, every political party.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0075par0512	If you have it, send it yourself.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0073par0513	Your member, who is in charge of you, who is a member of parliament, has been identified by Lock. Let him send this to the presidents of each party, and let each party do what it takes, I say this. But you have a concern for that. Okay, we know this...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0075par0514	No worries, no worries!
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0073par0515	In the past, there have been lawmakers who have spent weeks at the door of this man's farm, which you call it, to negotiate with him. We all remember that.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0075par0517	We're fine, look at you!
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0073par0518	I'm telling you, I'm offering you a sincere offer: let's see, let's see, what kind of political relationship, what kind of company, what kind of company does this have?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0075par0519	Prove it, and you'll talk.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0073par0520	It's for your own good. Doesn't the President say five times a day? You can't do that within the AKP, yet you don't have the will to do it, you're afraid.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0075par0521	We ain't afraid of nobody! I'm not afraid of anyone! You're scared!
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0073par0522	Look, if these 80 lawmakers don't show up, if these 80 MPs don't turn up, I'm sorry, society will keep looking at you suspiciously, and we'll keep looking at you suspiciously.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0077par0523	It's the defendant's job to prove the claim, prove it!
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0073par0524	We'll tell you all about how insincere you are in this struggle.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0078par0525	We're good! We're fine, look at you!
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0073par0526	We'll go on this political foot, there's nothing else to do. He infiltrated everything and didn't infiltrate you? I want to remind you that you're having this party together.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0078par0528	There's nothing wrong with us!
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0079par0529	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0080par0530	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0079par0531	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0080par0532	Mr. President, I don't want time to go on in the economy of procedure. The KHK is important, so we'll continue to fight it. But once again, if a claim is made, it's up to the plaintiff to document it, to prove it. I can say a lot about it and crush a friend. So you're going to make the bet, you're not going to prove it; it's a minimum legal problem, it's wrong. Once again, at our party, we have documents, information that no friend of ours has the same attitude to make a claim on this matter, so we'll do what we have to do.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0081par0533	It's over, that's all.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0080par0534	We expect the same sensitivity from them. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0081par0536	Bravo, Mayor!
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0082par0537	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0083par0538	Mr. President, just for the record...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0084par0539	Mr. President, they exported thousands of unproven, unproven professors. Why don't you give me your proof of that?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0082par0540	Just a second, Congressman. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0085par0542	Sir, for the record, I made a call, saying that information involving the MIT and the Ministry of Interior's work on this matter should be shared with the political party's mayorates, and that everyone should do what is necessary according to the outcome.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0086par0543	Mind your own party!
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0085par0544	For the record...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0087par0545	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan, it's on the record.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0086par0546	You look at your own party, you look at those who go around the canals!
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0087par0550	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the matter of the Court of Justice (1/746), which is ranked in the 1st ranking, under the State of Emergency, under the State of Emergency, 667. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. In the 7th Union, dated 13/10/2016, the Article 91 of the Civil Charter was adopted on the 4th Article of the Law, which was considered the main law under Article 91, and remained in the vote of the Article. Now I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. There are a total of four motions on the 5th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 128 of the Civil Code, we propose and propose that the statement of "why" in Article 5 of Article 5 of Article 5 of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly shall be replaced by "determinations." İsmail Faruk Aksu Kamil Aydın Deniz Depboylı Spiritual Ersoy Mustafa Kalaycı Baki Simsek Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We submit and propose that the following joke be added to Article 5 of the Law Code No. 412, which is currently in session. According to the first joke, passports belonging to their wives may be cancelled by the Ministry of Internal Affairs at the same time if the names of those reported to the relevant passport unit are viewed as dissociative in terms of general security." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the amendment of Article 5/7/2016, which will be adopted in the ongoing investigations of Article 667 of the Law Rule No. 412 and the following date of the current 23/7/2016 and 412 rows. Article 5 - "The laws of the Fethullahist Terror Organization (CHP/PDY), which has been identified as a threat to national security, can be decided to seize the passports of those who have been charged with criminal investigation or prosecution due to its membership, mensubility or association with them. If it is decided to be confiscated, it will be reported immediately to the passport unit concerned with the institutions and organisations involved. It will be decided to cancel its passports, in accordance with the date of the court's decision, on which the court's decision has been finalised. Passports are cancelled by the passport units concerned with the notification to be made by the court. Senal Sarıhan Muharrem Male Nihat Green Cemal Okan Yüksel Murat Emir Turabi Kayan Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5 of the Law Rule 412 be removed from the draft text of the bill. İdris Baluken Merkel Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Hüda Kaya Ayhan Bilgen Gülser Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0088par0591	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0087par0592	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0089par0593	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0087par0594	Gülser Yıldırım is the speaker of the Commission and the government's motion that has not joined, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0090par0597	Mr. President, the AKP, which has expanded its own civil coup every day, has completely eliminated the principles of law and truth with the provisions of the State of Emergency and the law under the name of July 15 coup attempt. When we look at the practices of the AKP, which had already been destroyed and burned to the ground before the coup attempt on July 15th, the cities where they were beaten with tanks, cannons, planes; the cities that burned people in basements, causing hundreds of lives, sending thousands of executives, politicians to prison, and continuing curfew in the six neighborhoods of Nusaybin, Şırnak. As if all these hostile practices were not enough, the July 15 coup attempt has unfortunately activated all the practices that the coup can take place today under the name of the democracy advocate. With decrees of the State of Emergency and its laws, the opposition educators, journalists, academics, institutions and organizations who don't ratify themselves in society are willing to destroy them by liquidating them. This showen, nationalist, religious, monotheist approach that tries to destroy what they can't handle in a democratic way, his bread, his freedom, his life, is essentially the worst enemy to this society. Dear lawmakers, thousands of public workers have been threatened by the same practice, while thousands of public workers are still in the middle of the revelation of the suspension and expulsion of thousands of public workers, causing anxiety and anxiety in the community. The AKP establishes the basis for the persecution that it will cause our people in the process, by blackening out all these antidemocratic and antidemocratic, law-free practices, the public's voice, the freedom of press and information, the freedom of television, the freedom to silence dozens of radio stations, and the level of persecution that it will bring to our people in the future, and by shutting down a channel such as Zarok TV -- the child TV -- they reveal what kind of mentality they have. Dear lawmakers, a new one of the practices that did not even take place during the September 12th military fascist coup was appointed trustees to municipalities. While the AKP is taking an approach to the court's statement that it boasts and uses against all its opponents so far, it is unfortunately chosen by the majority of the people and represents its will, and unfortunately by the vote of the overwhelming majority of the people and represents the will of our people, appointing trustees directly from Ankara and implementing the trustees with a logic of full occupation, demonstrates how the AKP is disrespectful and hypocritical to the will of the people, its chosen ones. The DBP municipalities were also targeted by the co-chair model, which was not only ignored by the Kurdish voter's will, but was also one of the most important achievements in women's struggle. The co-chair system, which is based on male-man equality and freedom against male-dominant politics, is an actual work on the legitimate ground, and even though it is widely accepted by a serious struggle as both organisational and social, the women's co-chairs today have 14/responsible and a search warrant has been issued for 24/4 of them. 13 female politicians from co-chairs, municipal and municipal parliamentary members have been arrested and 11 have been suspended. In short, there is great hostility towards the woman's organised struggle and her efforts to produce herself, her hard work, and her identity in every aspect of life. Mr. President, the destruction of the restricted area, including the stable or repairable structures in the districts of Abdulkadirpaşa, Fırat, Yenişehir, Dicle, Zeynep and Barracka districts, is continuous. With other neighborhoods declared a risky area, on the one hand, disposing people of their property, making the migration permanent, on the other hand, making their living spaces a pursuer of subsidized capital... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0091par0604	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0090par0605	I'm running out of time, but I can't help but add that, unfortunately, it's not just five minutes here, but hours, it's not enough to express the practices of AKP's persecution.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0091par0607	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the amendment of Article 5/7/2016, which will be adopted in the ongoing investigations of Article 667 of the Law Rule No. 412 and the following date of the current 23/7/2016 and 412 rows. Article 5 - "The laws of the Fethullahist Terror Organization (CHP/PDY), which has been identified as a threat to national security, can be decided to seize the passports of those who have been charged with criminal investigation or prosecution due to its membership, mensubility or association with them. If it is decided to be confiscated, it will be reported immediately to the passport unit concerned with the institutions and organisations involved. It will be decided to cancel its passports, in accordance with the date of the court's decision, on which the court's decision has been finalised. Passports are cancelled by the passport units concerned with the notification to be made by the court. Senal Sarıhan (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0092par0616	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0091par0617	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0093par0618	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0091par0619	Mr. Sarıhan, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0094par0621	Dear President, valued writers, valued MPs; in fact, we were not going to have any further discussion on this clause, we were going to be content with the reading of the reason, but the AKP's motion was required to have this conversation when it came to us. In fact, I'm gonna try to talk to you in less than five minutes. Now, the point of this article is the point of cancelling passports. Now, it is possible to set up operations such as the retrieval of the passports of any person or persons with a criminal or administrative prosecution regarding the cancellation of passports. However, there is one thing about this arrangement: the border on the cancellation of passports is not only related, it is not limited to the person being prosecuted or investigated, it is directed at its own environment. For example, you think that a child with a diplomatic passport is studying abroad. He lacks the opportunity to continue his education abroad or to consider another situation: Suppose there were no arrests for this person, free of charge, but for security reasons or without any grounds, the passport was cancelled. Well, if this person is working abroad or studying abroad, if he resides abroad, the cancellation of the passport would mean that he would be stripped of his rights to travel directly to the truth. Now, the AKP's proposal has exactly this arrangement, they say: "The passports of those whose names have been reported to the passport unit, according to the first joke, can be cancelled by the Ministry of Internal Affairs at the same time if their names are seen as disaffected from their spouses in terms of general security." Dear friends, there is a principle called the principle of personality of crime and punishment. This is one of the basic principles of criminal law, one of the basic principles of administrative law. In general, human rights law is a right that is guaranteed both in our constitution and in our internal law and international contracts. There's also the purity of innocence. Now, in the event that the wives' passports are cancelled, let's assume again, there will be more serious consequences, such as the removal of the health rights of a person who has to go abroad and return for health reasons. Besides, you know, we all know that we live in a Turkish environment where the victim is over the line, over the line, and almost everyone is a victim. Today, I would like to say once again that it is not legal for the laws of the law -- our valued group vice president -- to go further into narrower measures of freedom, while progress and work are expected to be corrected by seeing mistakes. We have time to make a wrong turn. I think it would be much more appropriate for all of us to work together here, in the way the mind and the law have ordered us to, without causing us at least a new narrowing down on this issue, a new rights extortion, a new loss. There is a basis for the creation of an environment where we can protect the rights of people who come and go to their gates from morning to evening, because I believe we are in charge of this, as members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I believe we have a responsibility to obey the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0095par0626	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We submit and propose that the following joke be added to Article 5 of the Law Code No. 412, which is currently in session. According to the first joke, passports belonging to their wives may be cancelled by the Ministry of Internal Affairs at the same time if the names of those reported to the relevant passport unit are viewed as dissociative in terms of general security." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0096par0636	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0095par0637	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0097par0638	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0095par0639	I'm having it read. The amendment to Article 673 is intended to be reflected by KHK. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 128 of the Civil Code, we propose and propose that the statement of "why" in Article 5 of Article 5 of Article 5 of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly shall be replaced by "determinations." Baki Simsek (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0098par0648	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0095par0649	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0099par0650	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0095par0651	It's Baki Simsek, Mersin MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0100par0654	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak for the National Party of Action on Article 5 of the Constitution 667. I salute your high council. I'm expressing the views of the National Movement Party on the bill on the seizure of passports and the cancellation of passports related to terrorist organization activities and those involved. Now, if the system on passports, the system on suspension and exports is the same, there will be a lot of casualties here. The benchmarks of schools, classrooms and banks were applied in suspensions. Now, if he's already involved in an operation of the terrorist organization, if he's involved, if he's connected, I don't believe there should be a law against impounding it. If treated in the same way, many sacrifices will arise. In the last two weeks of suspension and expulsion, a 26-year-old police officer and a mosque imam of the Mersin Olivebahçe Mosque have hanged himself with a rope in the mosque. We demand that the process of these be carefully monitored, thoroughly investigated, and that the real coupgers be tried. We see a lot of tragic-omic events in suspensions. There's an operation going on in Mersin Metropolitan Municipality, the mayor's advisor is being taken into custody. The question asked the counselor at the prosecutor's office and at the police station is that you stayed at the Crowne Plaza Hotel in Ankara, and then 26 days after you were in the hotel where you were staying. There are those statements in the police and the prosecutor's office, and I can send the documents to those who want them. What is your relationship with the righteous Orphan? He is kept in custody for six days. The question is, there is no other question. As a result, he is released. We're dealing with a lot of cases like this. The city has been laid off because the driver who drives a garbage truck in the city, works for 1,300 lira subcontractors and receives minimum wage, deposits money into the bank because he has 3,000 lira Bank Bank money in Asia. And that causes a lot of victims. We're really looking forward to not dealing with too low level here, dealing with real coupgers, and Turkey becoming normal as soon as possible. The Pashabahçe Factory is closed today, and the Paşabahçe Factory, a subsidiary of the Turkish Business Bank, is closed. Mersin's economy goes back every day. There are 125 officers, 325 workers, 150 contractors, 400 subcontractors working in this factory alone, no matter what political views you have. His technical life is said to be over, his economic life is said to be over, but we're not opening a new factory in Mersin, we're always shutting down a factory. These workers -- they're all going to school -- they're going to be kicked out tomorrow. Many workers were removed from this factory in November last year. I invite all political parties to claim the Pashabahçe Factory, with its power and opposition. When you send these workers to Istanbul, Burma, or the factories of Pashabahce, elsewhere, their order will be broken and their families will be broken. That's why we have to take care of the Pashabahçe Factory. In Mersin, I'm afraid -- the season has begun -- the tangerine is now 20 cents, the lemon is 60 cents. Mersin still hasn't received the inspiration for the 2015 citrus. Although all provinces receive incentives, Mersin is the victim. We'd like the government and our Minister's support on this matter. When we bring this up, they say that we've given more than the years have passed, but it's still open. We still have citizens who can't get their money back from 2015, we have merchants. He's got something to buy on the trillion. Which affects our Mercury exporters. He hasn't been able to heal yet because of the Russian crisis. There's a huge crisis going on right now. 300,000 Syrians live. I expect the government to give its support. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0101par0660	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0102par0662	Mr. President, I have a request for a statement in accordance with the Civil Code 60.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0101par0663	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0102par0666	Thank you, Mr. President. While cabinet member Minister and AKP officials were here, I had a request to clarify a situation. In a statement issued today by Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım, as well as by AKP Group Deputy Chairman in Parliament, the warplanes in Turkey reportedly participated in the Turkish warplanes' operation Musul. That's what the General Assembly was told. We had stated that Turkey's participation in the Mosul operation was a harbinger of a regional disaster. International agencies have now received news that Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım has changed his mind. According to these reports, did he participate in the operation of Turkish fighters in Mosul? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0103par0671	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0102par0672	Are Turkish fighters involved in the Mosul operation? The question asked in the following words: I don't know the details of the operations there, of course, but the important thing is to be in the coalition when it comes to it. So it is clear from the statement that the AKP and the Prime Minister are approaching such an important issue. As far as we can tell, there are no Turkish fighter planes involved in the operation, only the Prime Minister made such exits to deliver a number of messages to the internal public. I'd like to say that the coalition forces there, the peoples of the region, the state of the region, have found their statements against the will of the state of the region, just to take the gas of the internal public, unacceptable and extremely dangerous. And for the right information, I'd like to invite Mr. Minister and AKP officials to inform you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is there or is there not a Turkish fighter involved in such an operation that could point to the beginning of a major regional war? I'd appreciate it if they'd answer that.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0104par0676	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the 5th article to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the motion: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 6th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of Article 6 of Article 6 of Article 6 of the Turkish Parliament's Article 6 (part of the article 6) be replaced by Article 128 of the Constitution and the Article 128 of the Constitution. "The examination of the arrest, appeals to imprisonment, and release demands are determined by examining the evidence presented by the prisoner or his lawyer and by listening to the testimony presented by the witnesses." İsmail Faruk Aksu Kamil Aydın Deniz Depboylı Desire Erdem Ruhi Ersoy Mustafa Kalaycı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the current 23/7/2016 date and 412 rows, we propose and propose that the provisions of the Court of Law 667 shall be replaced in the following manner, (a), (e), (e), (i) and (i). 04/10/2016 "a) The detention period cannot pass seven days from the time of the arrest, except for the nearest judge or mandatory time for the arrest of the suspect to be sent to court. C) All suspects, victims and witness statements can be taken by the Prosecutors of the Republic, including public officials, regardless of their duties and titles as part of the investigations carried out. If there is a possibility that the safety of society and the criminal execution institution will be compromised, referred to the Fethullahist Terror Organization (CHP/PDY), given orders and instructions or commented on them, public or encrypted messages will be delivered to them, by the decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the talks can be recorded with a technical device or video. If the prisoner's meeting is understood for the purpose stated, the interview will be terminated immediately and will be subject to a report on the basis of this matter. Before the meeting begins, the parties are warned about it. If there is a report on the prisoner, the prosecutor's attorney's meeting with the attorneys of the prisoner may be prohibited by the court of justice. The restraining order is immediately announced to the bar president for the appointment of a new lawyer with the prisoner. A new lawyer will be notified by the bar within two days at the latest. The attorney who has been notified will be immediately interviewed by the prisoner. The appointed lawyer shall be paid according to Article 13 of the Law on the Act and Applications Act of Penal Code No. 5320, dated 23/3/2005. The prisoners can only be visited by their spouse, first-degree relatives, or by their guardian, if documented. The jurisdictions of the Justice Department and the Attorney General of the Republic are sealed. Prisoners may take advantage of telephone communications only for less than ten minutes, not once every seven days and with those listed on the bench. "F") The transcripts provided by public officials who serve in the criminal execution institutions of those who have been arrested are listed with the relevant officer's open identity and registration number. An invitation or a pager's work address has been delivered when it is necessary to submit an application to an employee's statement. The statement and trial transcripts of these individuals show the workplace address. I) The examination of the detention, the appeal for imprisonment and the release of the prisoner will be settled in the open hearings in which the prisoner has been held. i) If the judge or the court sees fit, the suspect or the accused can be questioned by using video and voice communication techniques at the same time. Senal Sarıhan Muharrem Male Nihat Green Gürsel Erol Mustafa Tuncer Turabi Kayan Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply the release of Article 6 of the Law Code 412, which is currently in session. İdris Bauken Merkel Danış Beştaş Hüda Kaya Ayhan Bilgen Mahmut Toğrul Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0105par0712	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0104par0713	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0106par0714	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0104par0715	It's Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan, Van MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0107par0718	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. I have taken a pledge on the Sixth Amendment of the Law of 667. We demand that this clause be removed before the order of the law. From the beginning, in fact, we have expressed our views on the decisions of all the laws, while at every opportunity, we have expressed how many contradictions there are to the Constitution and to the European Convention on Human Rights. Every time we get a chance to speak on the Assembly's General Assembly, we make a statement that calls the government to the line of justice, and we continue to say that. When we look at the overall setting of this arrangement, there are regulations in Article 6 that the detention period cannot exceed 30 days, the banning of lawyer talks, the limitation of lawyer talks, the registration, the seizure of documents, the limitation of lawyers as numbers. This is what happened in Turkey, when we looked at all of these regulations and practices for three months: torture, torture, and death of close to 15 people, and torture became widespread and systematic with this arrangement. Besides, the right to a fair trial has been eliminated, the right to a plea has been completely revoked, the cause of crimes against humanity in the honor of human beings. In fact, when we look at all the rules of law, it's now possible to say that all the world's order, all the world's order is abandoned, that primitive, even as we're reading, was prepared by the spirit of the terrible inquisitive period, the disorder, the period of violence, the period of rule of government, and the spirit of dictatorship. The decrees in this law are so illegal that it has left millions of people so insecure that they have completely missed the dose of arbitrary practice in this climate, including mechanisms that should be enforced and expected to distribute justice. There's no way to talk about a pattern, a management. If we had ever seen any of this material based on respect for human rights, a regulation based on fair trial, or even an emphasis, we would have said that you were genuinely sincere in the field of combating the coupters, but in none of them, unfortunately, there is no such approach, in both spirit and speech, completely out of the values I'm talking about. Look, the detention period is scheduled for up to 30 days, and even during martial law, it hasn't been foreseen for this long. The time itself means torture. If you put in a thirty-day period -- which is almost all of these 30 days in practice -- good chance, on the fifteenth, sixteenth day in court, and we see on that day that torture has reached a level that can be seen with the naked eye, it's possible to say in such applications that if you don't have evidence, then there's either evidence being fabricated or tortured during that process, so there's no other explanation. In five days, the lawyer's opinion is banned, and at the end of five days, psychological and physical torture practices stand out. Yes, valuable lawmakers, at the end of this practice, the practitioners have also been given very serious courage. Those who read the logic and spirit of these arrangements, such as the wardens, the law, the prosecutor, and the judge, have created a very reckless and arbitrary practice. A friend of our lawyer, who recently went to see his client, was tortured by the guards on the orders of the warden. If you interfere so much with the defense, the torturers will come to us with more open, reckless practices. Indeed, it is hard not to ask what is the priority of this arrangement when you look at the content of this rule of law. Is he really a man? No. Is he a citizen? No. International standards? Not at all. Are they human values? He's completely out of it. When he asks what is what, we can see the answer: It's the AKP's attempt to take over the state and its positions, the government's attempt to take over the state. In this process, the AKP has declared it has no greater value than its own sovereignty to us and to the world. I wish these practices would be terminated immediately. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The State of Emergency must be removed. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0108par0731	Thank you, Ertan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the current 23/7/2016 date and 412 rows, we propose and propose that the provisions of the Court of Law 667 shall be replaced in the following manner, (a), (e), (e), (i) and (i). 04/10/2016 "a) The detention period cannot pass seven days from the time of the arrest, except for the nearest judge or mandatory time for the arrest of the suspect to be sent to court. C) All suspects, victims and witness statements can be taken by the Prosecutors of the Republic, including public officials, regardless of their duties and titles as part of the investigations carried out. If there is a possibility that the safety of society and the criminal execution institution will be compromised, referred to the Fethullahist Terror Organization (CHP/PDY), given orders and instructions or commented on them, public or encrypted messages will be delivered to them, by the decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the talks can be recorded with a technical device or video. If the prisoner's meeting is understood for the purpose stated, the interview will be terminated immediately and will be subject to a report on the basis of this matter. Before the meeting begins, the parties are warned about it. If there is a report on the prisoner, the prosecutor's attorney's meeting with the attorneys of the prisoner may be prohibited by the court of justice. The restraining order is immediately announced to the bar president for the appointment of a new lawyer with the prisoner. A new lawyer will be notified by the bar within two days at the latest. The attorney who has been notified will be immediately interviewed by the prisoner. The appointed lawyer shall be paid according to Article 13 of the Law on the Act and Applications Act of Penal Code No. 5320, dated 23/3/2005. The prisoners can only be visited by their spouse, first-degree relatives, or by their guardian, if documented. The jurisdictions of the Justice Department and the Attorney General of the Republic are sealed. Prisoners may take advantage of telephone communications only for less than ten minutes, not once every seven days and with those listed on the bench. "F") The transcripts provided by public officials who serve in the criminal execution institutions of those who have been arrested are listed with the relevant officer's open identity and registration number. An invitation or a pager's work address has been delivered when it is necessary to submit an application to an employee's statement. The statement and trial transcripts of these individuals show the workplace address. I) The examination of the detention, the appeal for imprisonment and the release of the prisoner will be settled in the open hearings in which the prisoner has been held. i) If the judge or the court sees fit, the suspect or the accused can be questioned by using video and voice communication techniques at the same time. Murat Amir (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0109par0745	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0108par0746	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0110par0747	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0108par0748	Murat Amir wants to talk about the motion, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0111par0751	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, we have to make a decision first. It's especially obvious that the power has to make a decision. First of all, are you going to fight the ا, if you're going to fight it, do you want to do it in law, in accordance with the principles of universal law, or do you want to do it the way you want to do it? Dear friends, your decision on this matter is critical. See, the 6th article that I am promised on behalf of my party right now, which I have promised to explain my views, includes a lot of regulations that greatly restrict and undermine the principle of equality of the forces, that undermine the principle of equality of the forces, that undermine the right to defend them, that violate our existing law and international law. Dear friends, such as 30 days of detention. Now, every time we use this bench, we express it, you can't do what you think here. Why not 60 days instead of 30? Can you imagine, you have to consider the principle of measurement here. Why thirty days? Look, I know you didn't like it before, but the European Court of Human Rights has an open court. For example, in the United Kingdom-Brogan case, he puts a measure and says: "Four days is fine for six hours of detention. We, in fact, adopted our Constitution according to the European Convention on Human Rights. But you're violating it by turning it up to 30 days today. Again, Aksoy and Sakık have made decisions against Turkey before. In them, the detention period for 14 days is extremely long. Immediately, the principle of immediate arraignment has been violated. That's the first question I asked you guys. If you do not want cancellations from the European Court of Human Rights, you must follow these rules if you do not wish to have the prisoners suspended, detained, arrested and brought back to prison, if you do not wish to condemn Turkey in Europe. Otherwise, the fact that you're not really struggling with the image that you're actually struggling with it, in terms of people who don't know, is extremely critical. Dear friends, the fact that negotiations with counsel can be traced through a technical device, that talks between a client and a lawyer can be followed by a transcript, and that the right to a lawyer be removed from his post by the magistrate's hand at the time of need, has points that will restore the right to defend him and restrict his right to defend himself. Here again is the case of Salduz of Turkey, who was questioned by Salduz because he was convicted and was not interviewed by a lawyer, and Turkey is going to the European Court of Human Rights and condemning him. There's another Brusco case like this in France. Dear friends, you won't believe it, he was held without a lawyer for 20 hours and then the investigation was launched. The French government is sentenced to compensation here. And again, look, why is it necessary to have three lawyers present at the time of the deposition? There's no way to understand why this limitation is being brought here. In the same way, the document to replace the indictment or the indictment is read or summarized before the trial begins. That's not gonna happen. You have to read the indictment in the defendant's face. Look, there's another Aksoy case. The European Court of Human Rights clearly reminds Turkey and Turkey of the principle of vicahiness, saying: "You did not disclose the investigation file in the Aksoy case and therefore failed to make sure that the accused knew exactly what he was accused of, so you are obliged to pay compensation." Now, there's no point in continuing these wrongs while they're out in the open. We, at least -- you're violating the Constitution -- still have the opportunity to make arrangements in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on Human Rights. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0112par0764	Thank you, Mr. Emir. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and Subsequently change Article 1 of Article 6 of Article 6 of Article 6 of the Turkish Parliament's Article 6 (part of the article 6) of the Article 1 of Turkish Parliament's Article 1 of the Union's Convention on the Court of Justice under Article 128 of the Law. "The examination of the arrest, appeals for imprisonment and release of the inmates, or the insane offered by his lawyer, will be examined and the witnesses shown will be heard and sentenced to verdict." Altruism (Istanbul) and its companions Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0113par0772	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0112par0773	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0114par0774	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0112par0775	Arzu Erdem, İstanbul MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0115par0778	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the 6th Amendment of the Constitutional Court of Justice concerning the measures taken under the State of Emergency 667. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the unrest and ambiguities of the July 15 coup attempt have greatly affected our nation, reports and complaints about ▪ are increasing day after day. The appeals to our side because they were wrongfully victimized increase day by day. The traitor has to be eradicated and his extensions, which we agree on, but unfortunately he's mixed up with the guilty and the innocent. Dear lawmakers, let it not be assumed that arrests, expulsions, suspensions only exist, hundreds of people are concerned whether we will be arrested, expelled, or suspended. So right here, I want to translate these concerns of our nation, and I want to ask the ruling party if the decision to discharge and suspend is based on certain data. Is there a tear on the board? Did the horse trail get mixed up in the dog trail? We know that the horse trail is mixed in with the dog trail, and the tear burns along the dry side. An officer is immediately suspended or expelled due to strong suspicion based on criteria. What level has this application now reached from the bottom up? Are there untouchable levels and cuts? The State of Emergency is not a non-justice process, but the State of Emergency should not cause victims. The State of Emergency should not be transformed into politicians' judicial institutions and opportunities to intervene in one another. The State of Emergency should be based on the peace and security of our nation, our state, and this process is launched to respond immediately to unexpected events. As the National Movement Party, we have always been the voice of our innocent and victimized nation, and we will continue to be. We're doing everything we can to keep the victims from happening, and we're gonna keep doing it. Dear lawmakers, the State of Emergency includes other terrorist organisations as well as the other terrorist organisations. Another terrorist organization, which threatens our country's unity and integrity as well as its integrity, is undoubtedly the PKK. It is important for our country's peace and security to be cleaned with the same precision as for those aiding and abetting the PKK, as well as for the immediate cleansing of its members. Almost every day, fire falls on the furnaces, and we put our young saplings to the ground. Any counterterrorism that threatens our national existence, unity, and unity that aims to put our country under yoke must continue. One of the things that needs to be focused on is who will be brought into the ranks of those who support the formation of treacherous Å and all terrorist organizations who have been discharged from their duties. I will make an important suggestion: Our combat veterans, our Korean veterans, our Cypriot veterans, or those who have been wounded with their lives for their country, but who are not considered veterans, and their families and their families, as well as our martyr families, must be given priority. If our patriotic, nationalist, and archipelago brothers had not been displaced at the time, the construction would not have spread so much at this time, our country would not have been under so much threat. From our nationalist brothers who risk their lives for his country, no harm will ever come to his country or his nation. A week before 1,803 brothers and sisters at the police university of applied sciences were appointed with so-called interviews that didn't last two minutes, their rights were removed. Those who have been replaced by those who have been replaced have been removed from their duties by liquidation following the July 15 treacherous attack. 1.803 of our non-assigned brothers, who have been stripped of their right to duty, must be compensated. The same is true of 1,709 branch managers. Many of our nationalist, archipelago managers have been removed from their posts and replaced by managers with interviews. The rights of extradition have been granted by the court's decision, but -- Mr. Hunter was here a moment ago, I was going to tell him, I was going to remind him that I would not apply the decision of the consultation. He said that we have been fighting on this for a long time and now we're learning that 1,709 people brought in with the interview have been expelled. So, basically, it's a mistake after a mistake. Let there be no more mistakes, no more new sacrifices; let righteousness be based, and those who are wrongfully victimized shall be extradited. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit01spe0116par0791	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. With the vote of the 6th Amendment, the votes of the first section have been completed. Congressmans, I'm now taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0116par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 8th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will resume the talks of the Court of Justice in 412 rows. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second part covers the 7th to 12th article. In the name of the political party groups, the People's Party Party Party Group, Kadir Koçdemir, Bursa MP. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0117par0010	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. Today is Azerbaijan's National Liberation Day. To our brothers and sisters in Azerbaijan, I wish we could live together as one nation, two states, as a strong, strong nation and as a good neighbor. July 15th showed a few things. The first showed what a great nation the Turkish nation is, and we showed the world on July 15th that in conflict, when there is sedition, you can put aside all your disputes, all your claims, and show unity. Another thing July 15th has shown us once again is that when you're away from the state of law and especially from the separation of powers, from balancing and controlling mechanisms, the result is to go to a point where heavy costs will be paid. Again, on July 15th, Turkey has shown once again that those who have been able for more than a decade have succeeded in doing a $10 job in areas in a municipality, but have not been in a municipality for justice, national education, intelligence, internal security, foreign policy, national defence, protection of borders, and have always taken the country back from its international rankings. Our Minister of Bekir Bozdağ here often says: "You were saying until two or three years ago; we were not listening; now we are telling you that you are not listening. " Three years later, you said the same thing about Bekir Bozdağ, what we said today in 2016, but we didn't listen. How do we know he wouldn't? July 15th showed us these. Another thing July 15th showed, particularly in terms of Parliament and Parliament, Turkey has returned to the Middle Ages. Indeed, from 1314 to 1789 in France, the representation in parliament was not based on the representation of the nation, but on our representation here today. There were groups, clergy, nobles, and others called the third group, and the MPs had no authority to make decisions, negotiate, create agendas, create wills, only to convey the demands of the people they represented to the king. Today, I'm sorry to say, unfortunately, that's the case with our coven. No one listens to anyone, and the vote here is calculated according to the number of members of the parties. After July 15th, Turkey became the country of Hobbes, who said, "Man is the wolf of man, he will eat one another." After July 15th, we found that, in fact, in 2004, those who have passed 17-25 to cover their own responsibilities, even though there were bonds under which today's Administs were signed, are not sincere about the construction of a parallel state. After July 15th, we learned that the head of this parallel state construction was never officially wanted by the state of the Republic of Turkey. After July 15th, we saw that it was made to look like it was wanted, but all efforts are being made to prevent it from being returned. The basic condition of the agreements on extradition of international criminals is that the country in which the extradition defendant is returned has a right to a fair trial and a right to defence. If you ask for a defendant and when he comes, he'll beg for me. He won't even see light. If you ask for a defendant and stamp him and say, "Has he got a right?" If you say, "Do they have a right? Do they have a right to a victim?" You say, "Do not give it back indirectly." But you do it through the PR and the publicization that you do well because each word is different in terms of perception. Again, July 15 showed us that the men who brought the country to July 15th are also involved in identifying the perpetrators of July 15th. So you won't be able to prevent, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't be able to detect the Chief of Staff, the Chief of Staff, the Chief of Staff, from coming from this structure, and you won't be able to stop him from doing it today. The more accurate yesterday, the more consistent it was yesterday, the more they'll do today. There's no way they can do anything else, but we're still fighting the same staff that caused it. It looks like we entrusted a bus to a driver. The driver didn't get a science examination of the vehicle, he didn't look at the sounds coming from the right, he didn't change his tires, and he rolled the vehicle over the cliff, there was major damage. Later, he's handing out flaws from the car, from the driver's seat, like 8/2 defective, 8/3 defective. Friends, there's no way a fair outcome could ever come out of here. You do an operation here, and this operation is a success. As they say in medicine: "Operation has succeeded, but unfortunately we have lost the patient." You contribute to the trial, the mischief, the hatred, the fear of one another. In this ruling, we close many institutions, but I know that in the closing case of the AKP, the people in their decision-making body, the people in their decision-making body do not commit crimes. For him, it is necessary to take action on these individuals. Today, he is making more prejudicial judgments. Friends, when we are raised up on the other side, and those who do not believe today will believe in the presence of God when they see Him before them; but even there they will be set up in the balance, and they will be given the right to testify, and they will be judged wherever we go after him. It's not a good thing that all of Turkey's staff are mortgaged, taken into account, as is done in advance today: there's no way out of here if we go with this head. Friends, the bottom line is, the ruling staff has lost their credibility, their qualifications, they are not competent, they are not close to the public, they have lost their sense of shame and compassion. The process of not having shame and compassion, not being qualified, not sure, and not being close to the public, will be damaging. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0118par0025	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. The second speaker for the groups is Ferhat Encu, Şırnak MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Encu.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0119par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute you with love and respect. We've obviously made a lot of promises here, and we've tried to explain a lot of things. A total war against the Kurds, against different identities, against other structures has been declared and curfew has been declared in many districts of Kurds, Kurdish provinces, as well as the start of a total war against opponents in this country. One of these provinces is Şırnak. The curfew has been declared in Şırnak, İdil, Silopi, Cizre, Şırnak, Beytüşşebap. We've been talking about the pain that happened there over and over again. Unfortunately, however, every time we mentioned it, the AKP government tried to act as if nothing had happened. There has been a curfew in Şırnak province for two hundred and eighteen days. Dear friends, for eight months, the people of Şırnak have been unable to go to their homes for eight months and 80 percent of Şırnak is destroyed. Look, my friends, the operations ended on the third day of the season. It has been two hundred and fifteen days since the statement, and there is still curfew in Şırnak, and there is no telling when it will be lifted. Eighty per cent of Şırnak is destroyed, and the people of Şırnak are all trying to provide shelter in villages, barracks, Şırnak districts, other places of destruction, in Cizre, Cleopatra, and their basic needs, health care, education, and needs. Dear friends, about 5,000 people live in tents and huts around Şırnak right now and can't satisfy their basic needs and when the AKP government elects Silopi as a pilot, we have projects for these people, we will satisfy their housing needs, we will provide their education, health care rights, and they said, "We will now face problems such as education, housing, and so on. Here, those who have forced the people of Şırnak to leave their homes, and those who condemn the people of Şırnak to this misery, must know that they will answer in front of history, so that they may know that they will pay for it. The people of Uludere, which has about 60,000 populations in Şırnak districts, Şırnak districts, where the most basic needs of people are not being met and are still under curfew, are unable to cross the freeway of Şırnak in about four hours because they want to meet their basic needs, they are forced to hit them from the mountains -- and people from Uludere are able to come from Beytüşşebap, where a person from Beytüşşebap will arrive in about an hour and a half from Beytüşşebap. If they're using the freeways, they're being treated freely there. With hours like three hours, six hours, 12 hours, they're victimizing people there, and people who don't want to experience it, they're putting themselves in those dangerous ways. Dear friends, there is not only a curfew, there is total destruction in Şırnak; there is an attack against nature, culture, history, language and 80 per cent of the Şırnak people who were there earlier when they were moving their belongings, property from their homes. This is a temporary process. In Şırnak, the subcontractor is looting the property of Şırnak people under the supervision of law enforcement forces, where they have destroyed the houses and destroyed the safe houses. Friends, do you consider yourself forty thieves? Do you approach the people of Şırnak as thieves? So this is how you deal with people's basic needs, their victims? Look, families can't go and see people in Şırnak Prison. What's the excuse? There is a curfew. Look, two children died a few days ago, not a few, because of practices in Şırnak Prison. Look, there's been a hunger strike there for nine days. Why did the political prisoners who were there go on this hunger strike? There are demands for the removal of the blockade in Şırnak province to be met with their families. If the AKP government didn't leave even a scrap of democracy in this country as a democracy, it has to answer for it. If people's most basic rights are blocked by violence, brute force, if we go to our own districts and we want to be granted immunity in the Constitution, our vehicles are wanted, our roads are cut off, the AKP government is responsible for this, it is responsible for its policies. The AKP government must account for this in front of history, in front of this public. Dear friends, a university is founded in Şırnak; I don't know the exact number -- its capacities -- but it's a big university. Now he's being recruited. So, I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, where are you going to house these students? I'm really curious, how are you going to give these students the right to stay? There is no home for two hundred people, and there is no doubt about it. Well, we're going to have them in Cizre, and we're going to have them in Silopi. If you say so, they're going to be destroyed under the name of the land that's already there, including the well-founded houses. People face a total punishment policy. Why do you think that is? On June 7th, it was the will he set forth on November 1st, and it was his policy to take revenge on the people after he revealed his government, his policy, his mentality, his will under the city dam. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0120par0041	Thank you, Mr. Encu.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0121par0042	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0120par0043	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0121par0044	We're the ruling party of the Republic of Turkey, and we don't consider ourselves 40 thieves. A major operation has been carried out in the region against terrorists who are trying to contain the population, and due to the damage caused by it, the city's reconstruction is at stake.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0122par0045	Then why continue the destruction after the operation is over? The operations are over, but the destruction continues.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0121par0046	Those who can't call a terrorist a terrorist, our mayors, the terrorists who have killed innocent people, have no right to stand up and teach the Justice and Development Party a lesson in democracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0123par0048	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0124par0049	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0123par0050	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0124par0051	Mr. Mush, he made an open taunt.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0123par0052	In what sentence, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0124par0053	Those who can't say "terrorists" to terrorists... have given false information.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0123par0054	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0124par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, we've been on this stand over and over again about this matter of Şırnak. We don't want to beat up the lace. We've got a lot of stuff to beat up on. You're doing it all wrong inside and out. But we're looking for a solution to this Şırnak. You started operations and continued, so we banned Şırnak. You can't say anything. For months, operations have been over in Şırnak, over 5,000 people have been condemned to live in tents, and for months we have been trying to prevent those people from meeting this cold feeling in the tents in the winter, which is now all of Şırnak. Now, you need to come and answer them. Go ahead, skip those operations and stuff, we've already expressed them here over and over again. So, what's your project as a government? Is there a curfew in a city for eight months? Can 80,000 people be banned from their own homes? Can tens of thousands of people be condemned to spend the winter under the snow, under the tent? What did you do about it? Let's just say you didn't do it, why are you blocking us, why are you blocking the NGO, why are you blocking the public? We said we'd build 400 dwellings, 400 dwellings. I have spoken to the Deputy Prime Minister many times myself, and I will talk to Şırnak Governor and return to you for this. He said, "He spoke constructively, but then wherever he went, he returned negatively; either you answer this. We have a lot of things to beat up the farmer, your policies to the ground, but I especially ask that all the Parliament be sensitive to the problems that the Şırnak deputy has expressed here in his heart. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0125par0061	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0126par0062	Mr. President, thousands of condos are now under construction, planning and building.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0125par0063	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0127par0064	Where will 5,000 people spend the winter, Mr. Mehmet? There's 5,000 people in the tent, there's nothing to wait for thousands of condos.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0128par0065	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0125par0066	Mr. Encu...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0128par0067	Mr. President, look, since I'm from the area... Look, Silopi had been selected as a pilot's zone, and the foundation for building one dwelling in Idil is now only one example, but other than that, they have no policy, no projects, no destruction, no thalan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0125par0068	Thank you, Mr. Encu.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0129par0069	Well, there's no 13,000 housing, Mr. President, so the lawmakers can know the truth.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0125par0073	Şenal Sarıhan, Ankara MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the second part. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] CHP GRUBU ADINA SENAL SARIHAN (Ankara) - Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow clerks and fellow writers, dear MPs, I will express our views on the second chapter of the 667 Legislature -- we tried to offer our opinions in detail on chapter one earlier -- but before we do that, there is one thing I would like to do before we present our thoughts on this subject. Mr. President, yesterday or last day, they gave our female friends a double standardized assessment of how to die for the country and how to die like a man and how to die like a man. They insulted me to die like Madame. They spoke of the woman in French. Today, our esteemed President has also addressed this issue in our group meeting, but I, as a woman's deputy, am in a need to address this issue in the Turkish Grand National Assembly hall. For what reason? Because if that doesn't come out here, I think we've done wrong to the Marine Threeok, who we've recently considered the anniversary of his death, where we remember him. Although I do not sit on these platforms, although I have not served in Parliament, I would be unjust to Turkan Saylan, who is in the heart of a whole Turkish people, and I would be disrespectful to their memories. And there are more important names that you can all think of: I would be unfair to the Moderates. I have wronged our woman, who is directly opposed to imperialism in the fight against Turkey's Liberation War, Erzurumlu Kara Fatma, Ayþeli Ayþe, Emire Ayþit, Angel Reşit, Gang Ayþiye, Tayyar Rahmiye, Pilot Khadı, Makbuleya of Gördes, Saime., 12 years old, and Nakiye Elgün, and many of the names may take quite some time to rank here. It is clear that Turkey will make such mistakes unless its understanding of the Grand National Assembly and understanding of the presidential level internalises the issue of equality between men and women. I suppose we all need to be free of this double standard understanding, or else, including me, the same disrespect will be done to our female friends who are sitting on the stand. But unfortunately, dear friends, in a situation where law and Constitution are almost personalized, we are dealing with one-handed evaluations and laws. In the matter of the law that we have, the decree actually illustrates an example of this. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to go over some concrete issues. Last time, I said, I said: State of Emergency governments -- within the nails -- are legal governments, partial, temporary, and subject to control; they make arrangements within the limits required by the situation. What's that? It is the main issue of the declaration of the State of Emergency. At the same time, they do these things in a measure, and the basic principles of this measurement have basic rules. One of these rules is whether or not an intervention is necessary in an extraordinary way? That's rule number one. What tools do we need to do this intervention with? What is the practicality of these vehicles in reaching the goal? This fundamental issue, meaning, is that if we go back to making moderate decisions, going back to the subject we discussed, it orders that the provisions should be carried out within the limits, in accordance with the law, and in accordance with the requirements of the State of Emergency. Now, what do we have on the ongoing rights of the ruling? My friends often referred to the 15th article of the Constitution and referred it to the 15th article of the European Convention on Human Rights, and said: "There are hard core rights. These harsh core rights, such as basic human rights, in any way, even in the State of Emergency, cannot be restricted in any way, are also violations of the law. These were basic rights to live, based on human dignity, basic rights to be tortured, to be treated fully in any way, to be granted full security rights, to be granted a fair trial. What were we supposed to do? In addition to these basic rights, we would provide democracy during the period of the State of Emergency. How can democracy be achieved during the State of Emergency? It's the institution that will provide democracy through the State of Emergency. So the fact that the State of Emergency decisions have been audited, that the legal situation has been discussed gives democracy there. But unfortunately, I don't think we've actually discussed this extraordinary situation that we've been discussing over the last few days. Why don't I think about it? Because we all have our ears closed and their hearts closed. The objections expressed are not being evaluated in any way, and they are being rejected by prejudice, and the state of our living room is in fact an indication that our contribution as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to ensure democracy -- I regret it -- is not -- is not a concern for democracy. We'll discuss it now, we'll discuss it in a moment. There was something we had just discussed, about the passport. The main issue of the passport was: Without a court order, you cannot cancel anyone's passport without an administrative or judicial warrant. But what did we just do? We've cancelled the passports of people we see as suspects, who haven't decided for certain yet, and we've cancelled their wives' passports, and we've said, "For the sake of national security." Who decides for security? The Home Office? No. Courts may decide that national security has been violated, the judicial and administrative judiciary may decide. We've passed another item, item six. I thought we were responsible for protecting the right to a fair trial. What did we do? We've all raised our hands on 30 days of detention -- all of us, I say, separate the opposition, I call on our AKP MP friends -- yes. On the other hand, my dear friends, Murat Emir, who spoke before me, referred only to the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights -- I know, this is not a legal bench, but also a legal bench -- said: "These decisions have been made in the past -- reminded me of September 12th, even reminded me of the extraordinary state decisions and practices that were made during the usual period -- the Republic of Turkey has been condemned, and let's not do this again. We discussed this, we have put four days of detention time into our Constitution, even for the most collective crimes. With what conscience, with what mind? That means that we're opening up for abuse, which means we're letting it happen, which we just did. Now, we're going to do this a little bit later, and we're going to say, "Sir, in the state of emergency, people, public officials do not carry any judicial and administrative responsibility, they have no criminal responsibility. We've gone unpunished, or, I know, we'll bring it, so I'll remind you, no one will say no to it, all of you, to all of my fellow trustees here. We could not judge the Kenan universe, nor could we answer to the Kenan universe. Why couldn't we ask? That's why we couldn't ask. Now, if there's any new irregularities, we won't be able to account for these illegalities, and our hump will have gone higher. Another thing may seem lighter, we will not allow the decision to stop the execution soon; we will say that the decision cannot be made to stop the execution. Why? If there's a legal error, if the legal error has been determined through the courts, why don't we decide to stop the execution? Do people have to suffer or suffer? And offer them forty mules and forty lines? Will we have no understanding of justice, no understanding of human rights, no understanding of human rights, no understanding of human dignity? Dear friends, once again, I would like to invite us all to a law and understanding based on human rights. Thank you, my respects. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. The talks on the second chapter for political party groups are complete. There is no request to speak for him personally.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0130par0090	Mr. President, I have a request according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0125par0091	Just a moment, Mr. Baluken. I'm passing the question-answer process because there's no one in the system to ask questions. Now, according to the 60th article, Mr. Bauken has a demand for words, and I will make a promise to Mr. Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0131par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Just before the recess, I asked a question to be answered by both the Minister and the AKP officials. I asked what was the truth of the two conflicting explanations made by Prime Minister Büllýl Yıldırım, concerning Turkey's foreign policy, regarding the developments in Mosul. In the morning, Turkish fighter planes were involved in the Mosul operation. He made a statement as to the question asked by journalists and international agencies at the group's exit; the warplanes were not involved in the operation of Mosul, but if necessary, they could receive it. I have no control over the details of the operations. He made a very nonsensical statement, such as that. Now, look, we're talking about the heavy responsibilities of a regional war to Turkey. Therefore, I'd like to inform you that the Parliamentary General Assembly... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0132par0101	Here you go, pack it up, Mr. Bauken, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0131par0102	... And political parties have the right to accurate information. Speaking here, the AKP group's deputy said Turkish fighter planes were involved in the Mosul operation. Now, with the Prime Minister's new statement, it turns out that this information is not true and that the General Assembly has been given false information. Besides the regional war, there's a very different reflection of it inside. Here's the dollar, which continues to break the record of the republic's history because of this nonsensical approach with the AKP's hand; the economy is falling, instability is growing. So I want the answer to the question I'm asking. If the Minister or AKP officials answer their conflicting statements on the matter, we will consider our situation, according to him. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0133par0105	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0134par0106	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0133par0107	Mr. Tanal, please, sir, you have a request according to Article 60.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0134par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister -- so there are members of the Turkish Armed Forces at the General Assembly -- on the night of the July 15, 2016 coup attempt -- we, of course, were in parliament that day -- the council issued a statement at the dorm. Who is the council of the peace in this dorm? So far, 120,000 people have been suspended, they've been processed, and still no member of the peace council has been reached in the dorm. How many more people must be processed in order to reach members of the council at home? How many people have to go to prison? How many people have to be suspended? How many people must be caught or at what point is the work, Dear Minister? This is indeed a matter of interest to all Turkey and the world. I mean, who are the council members in this dorm? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0135par0112	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, if there are any clauses on the second chapter, I'm going to submit them to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause. There are a total of four motions on the 7th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "no debt" in Article 7 of Article 7 of Article 7 of the Turkish National Assembly of Turkey shall be changed to "no debt" in Article 7 of the article "no debt" in the Article 7 of the Article 7 of the Constitution of Turkey, which shall be taken into account according to Article 128. İsmail Faruk Aksu Kamil Aydın Deniz Depboylı Spiritual Ersoy Mustafa Kalaycı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 7 of Article 7/07/2016 and Article 667 in the following way. In the account of Article 21 of Article 21 (J) the first joke of Article 21 of the Anti-Terror Law (J) which has died due to the coup attempt on 7 - (1) 15/7/2016 and the continued acts of terrorism and other rights to those who have lost their lives or were injured due to the continuing actions of this action, the same joke (h) shall be based on the rules of the same joke (h) and those with themselves and the owners of the rights shall be used in the same way. However, the total amount of the month to be tied to the widows and orphans is no less than the month to be tied to the poor or to the deceased. In addition, the provisions of the Law on Nakdi Reparations and Monthly Bondage are carried out on those who were injured due to these actions, dated 3/11/1980 and 2330. In months to be connected like this, there is no requirement for non-borrowing bonuses, including general health insurance premiums." Şenal Sarıhan Nihat Yeşil Murat Emir Turabi Kayan Muharrem Male Gürsel Erol Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the third sentence of Article 7 of Article 7 of Article 7 of the Law, which is currently in 412 rows, we propose that those injured by these actions be removed from the text of substance, and the last sentence be changed as follows, and the following joke be added to this clause. ▪ All debts related to the premium and bonus, including the general health insurance premium, to start the month's start date, are abandoned by the Social Security Agency. " III) The income paid for in accordance with this article or related legislation, pension bonus, cash compensation, and additional compensations can not be taken from the people who have lost their lives due to the first joke, who have been injured or injured and civil servants and their rightful heirs. Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 7 of the Law Rule 412 be removed from the draft text of the bill. İdris Baluken Merkel Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Hüda Kaya Ayhan Bilgen Behçet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0136par0149	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0135par0150	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0137par0151	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0135par0152	Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman MP who wants to talk about the motion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0138par0155	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the 7th Amendment of the Constitution concerning the State of Emergency of 667. I salute the General Assembly. If the coup attempt had happened, the House would have been eliminated. A parliament that the coup attempt failed to bring out, unfortunately, was disabled by the government by the State of Emergency with the decree of the law. While the government was actually fighting the coupgers, it could do whatever measures it wanted against the coupgers in a broad social agreement in this Parliament, with the support of all social communities. However, instead of a large scale of public consent, the government acted only to strengthen its own interests, its own power, one step beyond its own hegemony. The main aim of coups is to eliminate democratic, legal, legitimate order. What do coupters do? The coupters close down the House, the coupters close down the political parties, close down the media-journal organs, recognise the will of the people, annul the will of the people, disregard the legitimate administration of the people with the appointed ones. The coupters will cut off and expel any people from opposing views in public or in private. What's going on now? It's the same. Journalists who had nothing to do with the coup are arrested, newspapers and television publications closed with police raids. The state of emergency has been transformed into a notary, a notary, a confirmation office, under the rule of law. Unfortunately, the House has been disabled. Again, trustees are appointed to municipalities elected by the will of the people by the will of the people. Public officials who will not be associated with the coup are being discharged or suspended. As a matter of fact, everything the coupgers do, everything they do is already being done. In Adıyaman (Adıyaman), 50 training workers who will not be connected with the coup in one way or another are now suspended. Many of these teachers who have been suspended and expelled have been investigated before, there is no need to fight the prosecution's investigation. The decision was made in the form of "U.S. Attorney's Office." However, friends have been suspended and expelled. On the legal grounds alone, it has been cited as grounds for one day's layoffs, suspensions and exports, under the direction of the union headquarters. This is not an application of democratic order. However, it is a coup to have people who have nothing to do with government savings, state-of-the-art decrees, impacts. Again, when the state of emergency was declared, the government said it could be removed in less than three months, but decided to extend its extraordinary state for another three months. It is understood that they will rule the country with state-of-the-art decrees and practices. As soon as it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's There's no way the coup attempt could be prevented by the State of Emergency practices brought on by the coup d'état. If you want to avoid the coup, you need to remove all coup laws, including the coup constitution. Again, a democratic republic is a concrete solution that will end the tradition of coup, a consensus that considers democracy, law, fundamental value. The 7th article mentions material rights to those who have lost their lives in the coup, injured or injured. Yes, the needed assistance must be done in the best possible way, and the indicators and assurances must be set on solid foundations. No one would object to that. The Republic of Turkey is very powerful, very rich. I think this charity campaign is wrong, it's not necessary. Turkey must not make its own martyrs and veterans depend on anyone. Besides, I have to explain a very unpleasant situation in this charity campaign. Some institutional managers and institutional supervisors are asking staff for the receipts of donations and donations made. What kind of understanding is that? Who donated how much, who did it, who didn't do it, identify them, rat them out, is it the executive's job? Even here, discrimination is an obligation to participate in this campaign. Aids must be done on the basis of Allah's will and voluntary consent, and no manager or institutional manager should have the right to question and supervise this. I think it would be more logical to collect from the people who robbed the government than to raise the funds like this. A sack full of dollars and euros that don't fit in shoe boxes, that can't be reset, and even one in a million is more than the help that will be collected, and more money will be collected. Again, I'm saying there's no need to call for help if the wasteholder restricts his expenses a little. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0139par0167	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the third sentence of Article 7 of Article 7 of Article 7 of the Law Code No. 412, which is currently in session, we propose that those injured by these actions be removed from the text of substance, and the last sentence be changed as follows, and the following joke be added to this clause. ▪ All debts related to the premium and bonus, including the general health insurance premium, to start the month's start date, are abandoned by the Social Security Agency. " III) The income paid for in accordance with this article or related legislation, pension bonus, cash compensation, and additional compensations can not be taken from the people who have lost their lives due to the first joke, who have been injured or injured and civil servants and their rightful heirs. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0140par0178	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0139par0179	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0141par0180	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0142par0181	Motive...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0139par0182	I'm reading the reason: The change in Article 670 is intended to be reflected in the change in the KHK. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 7 of Article 7/07/2016 and Article 667 in the following way of Article 1/07/2016. In the account of Article 21 of Article 21 (J) the first joke of Article 21 of the Anti-Terror Law (J) which has died due to the coup attempt on 7 - (1) 15/7/2016 and the continued acts of terrorism and other rights to those who have lost their lives or were injured due to the continuing actions of this action, the same joke (h) shall be based on the rules of the same joke (h) and those with themselves and the owners of the rights shall be used in the same way. However, the total amount of the month to be tied to the widows and orphans is no less than the month to be tied to the poor or to the deceased. In addition, the provisions of the Law on Nakdi Reparations and Monthly Bondage are carried out on those who were injured due to these actions, dated 3/11/1980 and 2330. In months to be connected like this, there is no requirement for non-borrowing bonuses, including general health insurance premiums." Senal Sarıhan (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0143par0192	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0139par0193	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0144par0194	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0145par0195	Motive...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0139par0196	I'm reading the reason: A change has been suggested, considering that there is the right expression. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "no debt" in Article 7 of Article 7 of the Turkish Parliament's Article 7 of the article "no debt" shall be changed into "no debt" in accordance with Article 128, which shall be adopted directly under Article 128 of the Code of the Law and by Article 128. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0146par0205	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0139par0206	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0147par0207	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0139par0208	Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Alderman of Kahramanmarash, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0148par0211	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation and the great nation that is watching us. As they know, as of 2002, terror had almost been nullified as the AKP was in power, but since 20 July 2015, we have lost more than 520. We have lost more than 350 police officers, close to 60 guards, 31 officers, more than 600 civil citizens, as a result of terrorist attacks and assassinations. In the meantime, thousands of soldiers, police and civilians have been injured. Yesterday we buried two of our martyrs in my election circle, Kahramanmarash. The horror of terrorism has made life a prison for 79 million Turkish citizens. Dear lawmakers, on July 15th, a treacherous, bloody and foul coup attempt aimed at our country, our constitutional order, our Parliament, and our national integrity. 241 of our people were also martyred in the attempted traitorous coup attempt. What can we do to the widows and orphans of our martyrdoms who were martyred for our unity and integrity in the southeast, both for our country and for the coup d'état of July 15th? It is imperative that the government present a mistake that the government has made here, although it did not want to discuss the monthly, compensations that are attached to the relatives of our martyrs, to our disability veterans. Today's July 15th coup attempt makes a significant difference between our brothers and sisters who lost their lives to their parents, spouses, and children, and the months tied up in the fight against terrorism, to their parents, spouses and children. As of today's social security, the July 15 coup attempt was based on $3,200 for the martyrs, and if there are only parents in the same file, the monthly amount is around half the amount of this, which is connected to the parents of the victims of terrorism, as well as 1,600 euros per month. Even more concretely, the July 15 coup is 1,600 euro per month tied to the parents of the martyrs, each of whom was killed in Hakkari. According to the number of rights holders from the same file, the July 15 coup may rise above 3,200 euro per month to connect the martyrs to their relatives. As a result of the July 15 coup, the wife of our deceased brothers is paid $3,200, if available, at $500 a month to her parents. This does not apply to the victims of terrorism in the southeast. In terms of compensation, the situation is no different. A total of 138,140 thousand euros were paid to the relatives of the victims of terror in the southeastern province, between 40,000 and 90 thousand euros per disability rate, while the martyrs of July 15 were expected to receive $340,000, regardless of the level of disability, and their veterans were expected to be paid $340,000. The difference is 2, 3, 4 times that. These aren't the right approach. No conscience will accept the distinction between martyrs in terms of monthly and compensation. When the picture of terrorism is so pathetic, it's wrong to discriminate between the martyrs of July 15th and the martyrs of counterterrorism, it's scandalous, it's beyond ignorance. The more we don't pay for our martyrs who made history on July 15th, the more we don't pay for our martyrs who were uniquely heroic in the fight against terrorism, the more we'll never be able to repay them. The double standard of our martyrs should be abandoned at once, causing their souls to suffer. For us, all our martyrs deserve gratitude, loyalty, and gratitude. What they leave behind is our trust. Specialist Sergeant Hasan Yaşar, who died in the village of Hakkari Şemdinli on September 3rd for the change of our president, is no less valuable than Petty Officer Omar Halis Demir, who died fearlessly in the Special Forces.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0149par0216	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the motion adopted just now: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 7 is accepted. Mr. Flagtutan, you have received a motion to withdraw from the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0150par0220	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0149par0221	Okay, thank you. Now I'm going to move on to item eight. There are four motions on the 8th article, which I read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 128 of the Law Against the Law Against Precautions, we propose and propose that Article 8 of Article 8 of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly's Article (1) of the article (1) be evaluated for direct agenda. İsmail Faruk Aksu Kamil Aydın Deniz Depboylı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the following sentence be added to article (1) of Article 8 of the Law Code No. 412, which is currently in session. "In this case, the existing building, structures and facilities built on the premises, except in the history of the relevant institutions and enterprises, and in the history of the contract, have been transferred to the Treasury for free of charge, including the building, structures and facilities built on the premises, and the rights, documents and documents and documents from 23/7/2016." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article (1) of Article 8 of the Article 8 of the Constitution shall be changed in the following manner. "The government of public administrations, regulatory and regulatory institutions, social security institutions, local administrations and institutions established by these administrations, the other public institution established by special law, the board, the upper board and institutions, the public economic initiatives and its binding partnerships, and more than 50% of its capital, as part of its private budget, and more than 50% of its private budget, are being used by the public security institutions and subsidiary administrations, and all kinds of subsidiary and subsidiary organizations established by these administrations, or by special law, the state council, and organizations, public economic enterprises, and organisations, or by which have been issued or by the rights of their own enterprises and enterprises," he said. Senal Sarıhan Muharrem Male Nihat Green Gürsel Erol Mustafa Tuncer Mehmet Gökdağ Murat Emir Turabi Kayan Barış Black Sea Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the Law Rule 412 be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Merkel Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Huda Kaya Abdullah Zeydan Ayhan Bilgen Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0151par0252	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0149par0253	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0152par0254	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0149par0255	Abdullah Zeydan, Hakkari MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Zeydan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0153par0258	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. Dear friends, unfortunately, the speech of opposition lawmakers here, their proposals are not considered by the ruling party. Just ten months ago, in January, when I was speaking here, I voiced a new era of lawlessness and lawlessness against the community's governors in 2008, and in the process, I said that many lawmakers within the AKP knew about these injustices and injustices, but did not warn the Prime Minister, and even in the process, I said that similar errors were still being done, and that the MPs in the AKP must boldly warn the President and the Prime Minister. If then the MPs had warned the President, perhaps there would have been no destruction in Kurdish provinces, perhaps they would not have been burned alive. Look, my friends, it has been announced that on the 37th day of Highova, the conflict is over by official institutions. From day 37 to day 80, when curfew was lifted, the homes of the people of Susova were burned down, even though there was no conflict. We've said it over and over again there. The delegations of the NGOs arrived; they were not admitted; CHP MPs arrived; CHP MPs came, they didn't go into the province; unfortunately, journalists were brought in, but unfortunately they were brought in, as if there were no conflicts in the neighborhoods where there was no conflict, and they blew up the remaining houses of the People of Susova with bombs just for ratings, and the commander of the Highova division who did this is now in prison, in prison. Dear friends, the political responsibility is in power. Dear friends, I'm afraid our people continue to pay the price for the government's unresolved policies these days, with their lives and property. The human rights violations and democratic shames that I've been acting as a surrogate in Hakkari, these days have been very rare. Dear friends, on October 8th at the headquarters of Highova, as you all know, four of our people lost their lives in the fire from the police panzer. On June 16, 2016, we visited the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Pervin Buldan, and the Governor of Hakkari. I told the governor of Hakkari exactly what I said to him: Mr. Governor, after curfew was lifted in Yüksekova, hundreds of police put the bullet in his mouth with automatic weapons in their hands -- it's already busy, it's crowded -- that's how he behaves undisciplined and irregularly. If you do not take precautions with the Highova Governor, there may be great massacres in the coming days in Susova. And unfortunately, our people have been massacred over the shortcomings of these measures that have not been taken. Honourable MPs, I'd like to say one last thing about the trustees appointed in this court of law: this is the office of the mayor of Hakkari. If there had been a coup attempt on July 15th, a colonel, a colonel or a general like this trustee would have come and sat in the President's room. This is a practice similar to July 15th, dear friends. The mayors can commit crimes, replace them with city council. The political authority knows best that there is no power above the power of the people. It's a political movement that has come to this day against a lot of military custody and bureaucratic custody. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For him, against these appointed trustees, the public will surely react democratically and claim their chosen ones. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0154par0268	Thank you, Mr. Zeydan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 8 of Article 8 of the Law, which is currently held on 23/07/2016 dates and 667 rows, in the following way. "MEDDE 8 ▪ Other public institution, established by special law, established by these administrations, the board, the board, and its organisations, public economic initiatives, and their joint partnerships, employment and enterprises, and more than 50% of their private budget, administrations, regulatory and auditing institutions, social security institutions, social security administrations and institutions established by these administrations, all kinds of subsidiaries and subsidiaries established by the special law, or any other state-owned groups that are being appointed by the board, the board, the upper council, the public economic initiatives and organizations, and the access to them through their joint partnerships and enterprises, more than 50% of their equity and enterprises, and any other non-responsories of their capital, or any kind of non-responsories, or any kind of security. Senal Sarıhan (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0155par0276	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0154par0277	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0156par0278	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0154par0279	Peace Black Sea, Sinop MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Black Sea.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0157par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, since our Minister of the Forest is sitting here, I think we'll discuss the law of the jungle. I have made a promise of Article 8 of the State of Emergency Law, which is distributed by the number of 412 rows. I salute the General Assembly. The 8th article, as in other articles, regulates the cancellation of rental and usage contracts with a arbitrary assessment of the law. Dear friends, there was a coup attempt on July 15th. This initiative has been prevented by the political dissension of all parties in parliament, different views of belief, all of our citizens' opposition without discrimination, prevented for democracy, prevented for the sake of the republic, prevented for the rule of law, prevented for secularism. The president's prime minister told MPs from political party leaders that every part of the community has expressed to them the importance of having democracy, republic values, rule of law, parliamentary structure. However, it has become clear that the leaders of the country have shown no sincerity in these words. This coup attempt was based on the use of the idea of democracy, law, republican values, which was worse than the idea of a fascist coup on September 12, 1980. Congressmans, we, the CHP, have said that, before July 15th, every opportunity is to remain in law, that the rule of law will lose its legitimacy, and that one day the law will be necessary for everyone, and we will continue to tell you today, and we will continue tomorrow. We also warned the 15-year-old AKP government, and we warned them about everything, and we said, "You're doing it wrong, and it's going to put the country in immeasurable straits, and everybody gets hurt." We warned you in Syrian policy, you didn't listen; we warned you in immigration policy; you didn't listen; we warned you about foreign relations; you didn't listen; we warned you about terrorist organizations; you didn't listen; we warned you about Å; you didn't listen. I've always known. You've left the country's rule to one man's will, and we've come to this day. Today, you see clearly and clearly the accuracy of our warning in all matters. We made a mistake. You say, "We did it wrong." You say, "You ask for forgiveness." You beg for forgiveness, but you can't give up your sense of government that brings the country to these dark days. So you're not sincere about asking for forgiveness. Again, you insist on the administration of the one man's will to eliminate the opposition, which has prevented democracy, the coup attempt, by risking everything. Congressmans, if this understanding of governance, the understanding of governance, the one man's will, had been successful, Turkey would not have come to this day. Since you've managed with that understanding, or rather you haven't managed, there's been a coup attempt on my beautiful country. Terror continues to take lives every day. There's an economic crisis at the door in the morning, and that's when it happened. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please give up this understanding. Look, with your practices, the country has turned into a victims' camp, screaming from all sides. Millions of people are victims of unlawful decisions. Teachers are being victimized because he's a member of the union. Hundreds of victims were created, even though they had no connection to Sinopta, Gerzeqa, Ayanciqa, Turkeli, Dikmen, Durkanda, Saraydüzünde, Erfelek, Boyabatta, and all over Turkey. Teachers, courthouse employees and employees of other institutions were detained, arrested, fired. These innocent people's bread and futures have been tampered with. Congressmans, our country is always going through a difficult time in every sense. These thousands, these millions, are not just numbers, but when you think about it in a healthy way, you'll realize that each of these numbers corresponds to a life, that each of these numbers corresponds to a life. Stick to the law, stick to justice. If you want to dominate this country, peace, brotherhood, love, then give up the understanding of the rule of one man. We'll get out of this darkness with common sense. If you ask, what is a common mind? The common mind of this country is clear: the common mind of our country is the rule of republic, democracy, secularism and law. The common mind of this country is the mind of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I salute you all to meet in common. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0158par0294	Thank you, Mr. Black Sea. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following sentence be added to the first joke of Article 8 of Article 8 of the Law, which is currently in session, 412 rows, 667. In this case, the existing building, structures and facilities built on the premises, except in the history of the relevant institutions and institutions and contract date, have been transferred to the Treasury for free from 23/7/2016, including the building, structures and facilities built on the premises. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0159par0303	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0158par0304	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0160par0305	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0158par0306	I'm reading the reason: The change in Article 670 is intended to be reflected in the change in the KHK. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Motion accepted. Now, I'm going to read the final motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 128 of the Law Against the Law Against Precautions, we propose and propose that Article 8 of Article 8 of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly's Article (1) of the article (1) be evaluated for direct agenda. Spiritual Ersoy (Osmania) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0161par0315	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0158par0316	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0162par0317	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0158par0318	He wants to talk about the motion, Ruhi Ersoy, Osmaniye MP. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0163par0321	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we all see that this extraordinary process of our country is under extraordinary circumstances. While our country is under siege from all sides, we wish the honorable Turkish soldier success in the Turkish army's fight abroad. We sincerely wish our soldiers in the east and southeast of Turkey, our armed forces, our law enforcement officers, all of them fighting terrorism. Unfortunately, we get martyr news every day. Yesterday, we, a special ops officer, sent our brother back on his final journey to Osmaniye. We lived with her sons, her parents, who were college students, in a different atmosphere, with our fellow lawmakers. Hopefully, we want all of this to end. We are all aware of the need for national unity and unity as we want it to end, as all of us, as all of the friends in this House, and the hope of the holy Turkish nation, in this sense of unity and unity, is that the language in politics will continue without sharpening, without polarisation. Members of the nationalist legislative movement and its leader, he's making the ultimate effort to establish this climate. In particular, we observe that while the state wants its determination and determination to continue, some people live in the final process, even though the state's institutions do not deserve to suffer, considering the potential to make mistakes. It's like we're hearing that there's been some technical errors between teachers and law enforcement in recent dismissals, and with information that we've heard, the public officials have confessed. We would like to make up for this mistake as quickly as possible, as if looking for a needle in a haystack, so as not to shake the sense of justice in society. Our proposal under this proposal is exactly this: the transfer of foundation goods, commonly known as educational institutions, to the state of education, to the Turkish state and to the Turkish nation, and to those who show inability to use arms against the Turkish state and the Turkish nation, to assess the seized goods in the foundations and associations. If all the facilities, infrastructure and campuses that are closed on this issue are related to the transfer of to state universities, the use of categorical property and rights -- real estate or real estate -- especially the problem of students' housing -- are being spent on areas that our government has neglected to address as soon as possible. In Turkey, we call each city a university, we calculate the number of universities and student numbers in Turkey, when we calculate the capacity to stay by the number of students, when we see the huge gap in the infrastructure, it's inevitable to see what the possibilities are for such opportunists. We believe that the resources here are immediately spent on students as housing, social utilities and education. Another concern is that the same determination and determination are also shown in the work of aiding and abetting the PKK. The state's extraordinary state has declared itself -- in a way -- against its terrorist organizations, its terrorist organizations -- particularly at the aid and abetting of the Kurdistan Workers' Party -- from Barzani, North Iraq, to Mersin Line -- has been seriously subject to state control and has expressed this side of the National Movement Party as well as the continued process with the same determination if terrorism is from Turkey, if its resources are completely drained and if it is from Turkey. We salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit02spe0164par0328	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the earlier motion: those who accept it... those who do not accept it... the 8th article has been accepted. I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0164par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 8th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of the Court of Justice in 412 rows. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are three motions on Article 9: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added after the first sentence of Article 9 of Article 9 of Article 9 of the Turkish Parliament's article, which is based directly on Article 128, under Article 128, and under the Act of the State of Emergency. (Personal grudges, grudges, intents and duties are subject to responsibility in case of abuse of duty.) İsmail Faruk Aksu Kamil Aydın Deniz Depboylı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the change of Article 9/07/2016 to date 23/07/2016 and Article 667 of the Law Rule No. 412, as follows. 04/10/2016 Those who have made decisions and carried out their duties under the provisions of this Law have every legal, administrative, financial, and criminal responsibility for their duties. Senal Sarıhan Muharrem Male Nihat Green Gürsel Erol Mustafa Tuncer Murat Emir Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the Law Rule 412 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Merkel Danış Beştaş Hüda Kaya Ayhan Bilgen Mahmut Toğrul Besime Konca Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0165par0030	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0164par0031	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0166par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0164par0033	He wants to talk about the motion, Besime Konca, the Siirt MP. Here you go, Mr. Konca.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0167par0036	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly. Today is the anniversary of Dilek Doğan, 25 years old Dilek Doğan, who most likely wanted to live like a man and die like a man, being killed by a police bullet in Istanbul. It's been a year since Dilek Dogan was murdered. There was footage of him on the camera, a home invasion, and he was murdered in front of his family, but there were no conclusions to the case. His family was taken into custody, his lawyers were taken into custody, his brother was taken into custody. The defendants who slaughtered Dilek Doğan have filed a criminal complaint against his family, and this unlawfulness continues. Now, we're trying to explain the crimes committed during the 14-year period of government by counting the droplets in the river of crime, and we're trying to do that in five minutes. Now, the 9th article, which I have been promised, says: "The legal, administrative, financial responsibility of the officers who have been sentenced under the rule of law under the decree of the law, is not born." • In Turkey, all the governments who have been seeking their children for many years have been held on this bench for the rights of the deep state, JİTEM (JİTEM), counter, I don't know, Hezbollah, I don't know who's been working for years, killings, the tortures of the 1980 coup, the injustices of the Saturday Mothers, who have been searching for their children for many years. But interestingly, something happened during the AKP era: First, he brings legal proposals to clear the way for illegality, which, despite all the opposition's efforts, he legalizes on the basis of only the majority. And after he's passed these criminal laws, he's bringing the law back to the House to protect those who committed these crimes. Today, the extraordinary state of law is the practice of decrees, and this is the first time in Turkey's history in Turkey's politics. Perhaps past governments, yes, could not pass laws in the name of democracy, in the name of human rights, in the name of law, in the name of freedom, in the name of equality. Maybe this deep state, what we call this secret, what we call this coup regime, had no stance on the reality, but today, this government brings crime to the House, which is very, very, very clearly, first, it makes laws for it, and then it makes laws again to protect those who commit these crimes, to protect what they make responsible. Now, this government is no longer a constitutional, legal, political, legal government, and it is no longer a government, in its final form, in its state of emergency, in its method of enactment in the law. An unofficial, antidemocratic, illegal organization has become an organization. A mere majority is no longer a government with a single government. Now, we're investigating the coup, and he says he's fighting the congregation. Today, not fighting the congregation, not fighting the coup, but competing with this mentality, with the congregation, with the coup. For years now, how the congregation has grown, how it has flourished under its own references... you know, today, it's not really passed out, it's developed in the government's garantism, it's become common. But yes, why is it partly reflected in our infiltration? For we were not a people following the congregation, listening to the preaching of Laughing. But, for years, we have been ruled alone for 14 years. We hear and listen to the government, and what this congregation has done today is much more than what the coupgers have done. I'd die a man's death rather than a man's death as a lady. He didn't say, "I'll make another sentence." He didn't say, "There are tens, hundreds of TVs who didn't give all the insults to women alive, the murders committed against women, the killings committed against them in Cizre, Sur. Then you made the law, the military, to protect the police, they tried to strike you out of the punishments, but today you're doing the same thing again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Again, you're making a law under the guise of investigating terrorism, and I think that these laws you've passed will go back and take the necessary approach to this government. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0168par0045	Thank you, Mr. Konca. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the change of Article 9/07/2016 to date 23/07/2016 and Article 667 of the Law Rule No. 412, as follows. 04/10/2016 Those who have made decisions and carried out their duties under the provisions of this Law have every legal, administrative, financial, and criminal responsibility for their duties. Senal Sarıhan (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0169par0053	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0168par0054	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0170par0055	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0168par0056	Necati Yilmaz wants to talk about the motion, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0171par0059	Mr. President, Mr. Court, the esteemed MPs, we're going through a coup. On 12 September 1980, a coup took place in our country; coupgers ruled Turkey under conditions similar to today, deprived many innocent citizens of their jobs, bread, freedoms, unfairly convicted many people with unlawful judgments, executed young children in accordance with instructions, and rebuilt the state for the direction of international capital and their own little individual needs. They set up a proper constitution and made the public accept it by 92 per cent in that pressure environment. They were also terrified by the feelings of all wrongs, afraid that they would not be able to answer for what they had done. The new Constitution shall not be judged for its actions, for its actions, for its interim Security Council procedures, for its actions. This sentence has proven that the jurists have accepted their exclusion, and it is a decree in order to establish legitimacy for them. It's a judgment that reveals the desire to avoid the injustices of cowards who protect their injustices and illegalities. Members of parliament, today we live with all the unlawfulness that could have been achieved as if the July 15 coup attempt had reached its goal. Lawless violations of the Constitution and bans brought to our country by decrees in violation of the law shall give the image of a full coup. Because of their opposition, teachers are suspended, peacekeepers are suspended for this reason. The meeting of the Education-SEN (EDUCT) who objects to these unjust practices and seeks rights is prohibited in Ankara. The government, allowing the October 10 massacre to take place, bans the memory of those who lost their lives in the massacre and gasses their families. Members of parliament, for the first time in this land, there has been a ban on the memory of Kerbela and the oppressed Hussein, even the historical symbol of persecution. There was futile effort to prevent the celebration of the October 29th Republic Day (October 29th) and the Memorial of the Great Ataturk (November 10th), knowing that they would not succeed by banning every event until November 30th, under the guise of security. Members of parliament, in all this unlawful process, the state is being built for its needs again, as it was during the September 12th junta period, in violation of the Constitution. As with the September 12th junctures, the feeling of cowardice created by all these irregularities is in the AKP government, and they are afraid. For this reason, they bring a special provision in Article 9/9 of the Law Code 667, which they say is that the legal, administrative, financial, and criminal responsibility of those who have taken the decision and carried out their duties under this law shall not be born because of their duties. This statement states that the regulations concerning this decree are clearly against the law and the Constitution. In this frame, it is acknowledged that all your work has responsibilities, but why do you need such an arrangement, and why do you want to bring such protection armor? With this judgment, you want to charge the people with irresponsible and reckless aggression, creating legitimacy for the new injustices you're going to do. We'd like to say from this bench, this General Assembly Hall, that we will not allow this. We want you to know that if we don't do this, we're going to go out in the field and tell the public about your illegitimate condition. And a warner therefrom: the end of the wrong-doers is the same. No one can answer to us by bringing this arrangement. Don't say, "Don't think you'll be relieved of responsibility." If you have such fears, stop being quick to persecute people, to commit unlawful conduct, and to violate the Constitution, and you will not be able to escape this fear. Know well that no judgment, no arrangement that you will bring, will save you from being condemned before mankind. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And remember that every dark night has a morning, and every morning has its owner. I'm sure they'll ask about it one day. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0172par0068	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added after the first sentence of Article 9 of Article 9 of Article 9 of the Turkish Parliament's article, which is based directly on Article 128, under Article 128, and under the Act of the State of Emergency. (Personal grudges, grudges, intents and duties are subject to responsibility in case of abuse of duty.) İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0173par0076	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0172par0077	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0174par0078	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0175par0079	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0172par0080	I'm reading the reason: Officials who serve under the 667 SEC and carry out their decisions are expected to be responsible for the damage they have done because of their misdeeds. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 9th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 10: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 412th amendment of Article 10 of Article 10 of the Turkish Parliament's article "because of the actions" in the article "for the actions of the 10th of Turkey's Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey," regarding the direct agenda of Article 128 of the Law concerning the measures taken under the State of Emergency. İsmail Faruk Aksu Kamil Aydın Deniz Depboylı Ruhi Ersoy Mustafa Kalaycı Osmaniye Konya Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 10/07/2016, which is referred to as the end of the 10/07/2016 date and Article 667 of the Law Rule No. 412, as follows. 04/10/2016 "It can be decided that the prosecution should be halted in the proceedings launched under the provisions of this Law." Senal Sarıhan Muharrem Male Nihat Green Mustafa Tuncer Gürsel Erol Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 10 of the Law Rule 412 be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Merkel Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Huda Kaya Ayhan Bilgen Müslüm Doğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0176par0109	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0172par0110	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0177par0111	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0172par0112	Müslüm Doğan wants to talk about the motion, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0178par0115	Mr. President, good lawmakers, it is vital that the fight against this coup, which aims at constitutional order, is carried out within the rules of the constitutional order, and the fight results. As it is known, the concepts of justice and the legal state are in the 2nd article of our Constitution. In this framework, a mix-up was born due to the wrong implementation of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of 20/7/2016 and the State Council of Ministers' decision 2016/9064 on the applications of those who have been removed from public office following the state-wide emergency. Some citizens have gone through individual application in front of the Constitutional Court, others have gone to court to seek rights. Some have even been known to apply to both or three of these courts. The first State of Emergency decree to follow the announcement of the state of emergency is the State of the Law 667. Article 4 of this decree states in the first article of Article 1 of this decree, in the form of eight dams, the public officials will be removed from public service in what manner. In fact, the Council of Ministers has not considered closing the case path against these proceedings, but has decided that it cannot be decided by the 10th Article of the same law decree to stop the execution of the proceedings launched in accordance with the decisions taken under this law and the procedures carried out. By bringing the ruling, the proceedings will be subject to administrative jurisdiction, but the executive decision cannot be made to be stopped. The order of the civil servants to be removed from public office has been established by putting a list of the provisions issued in order to make it appear that the rules of judicial control of these proceedings were not followed by 669, 670 and 672. The State of Emergency, issued a month ago by the Council of Ministers, is a violation of the legal code of law, to be acknowledged that he will declare these provisions with other provisions without a new ruling that lifts the relevant provisions in the ordinance of the law. It is contrary to the usual course of life that the administration behaves in such conflict. Therefore, according to us, the removal of the state duties established under Article 4 of the Court of Law 667 has only been declared by other laws. In fact, the procedures for the removal of persons from public office have been established according to the eighth draft of Article 4 of the Article No. 667 of the Court of Justice (1). For example, it has been established with the approval of the minister on the proposal of the cabinet, which is either related or related to the head of the executive director of the institution and institutions concerned with exporting officers who are subject to Law 657. It will also appear when the relevant ministries, which are the validation office of these actual exports, are asked for the document. As you can see, the discharges of personnel and members of the judiciary have been carried out in accordance with the regulations prescribed by the Court of Law 667, and the names of these personnel who have been discharged in any law form have not been declared. There is no hesitation that these individuals may apply for administrative judicial action. It is not in the legal sense that personnel who have been discharged under the State of Emergency should be treated differently in the form of those who have been discharged and expelled by individual administrative procedures. Therefore, it is imperative that those whose name has been issued in accordance with the decrees of the law must be admitted to have been notified on the basis of the difficulty of the notification of the terms of the exports, even though they have been established as administrative procedures. The fact that these exports have been issued in accordance with the laws of the law does not mean that the transactions are being carried out by the KHK. A rebuttal agreement will cause a legal turmoil in the judicial control of these proceedings, and will not be consistent with the Council of Ministers' intention, as the Council of Ministers shall make the judicial control agreed upon by the Court of Ministers under Article 667 to be controversial. On the other hand, decisions on the removal of public office without hesitation when a disciplinary decision is issued cannot be left outside the jurisdiction of the third amendment of Article 129 of the Constitution. Since our constitution is in effect, this disciplinary decision is also mandatory by which authority of judicial control should be carried out. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0179par0124	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 10/07/2016, which is listed in the following way under the Law Rule No. 667, which is the following. "It can be decided that the prosecution should be halted in the proceedings launched under the provisions of this Law." Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet and her friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0180par0132	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0179par0133	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0181par0134	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0179par0135	It's Fatma Kaplan who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tiger Liberty.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0182par0138	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 10th Amendment of KHK No. 667. I salute your high council. Just as the AKP changed its definition of dynamocracy as a train when asked and requested, it changed its definition of a gun as much as it did, and the public releases, exports turned into a dangerous weapon in the hands of political power, and I'm afraid the government doesn't want to let go of this OHR bat. But remember, the principle of justice is not in the interest of power, nor should it be. The investigations alleged to be for the coupkers, unfortunately, are not just for the coupgers. The ruling owners have declared those who are opposed to him to be members of the government, arrested, arrested, expelled, even if they don't do anything, the mud has acted on reason to leave a trail of horses. Some of the AKP's municipalities, who view the State of Emergency as a blessing, have taken revenge on the opposition in their own mind by complaining to the government that they are in their way. The days are coming when those municipalities and those who share in the congregation will fall into their own well, dear friends, because it's like a boomerang. If you use justice as a weapon, one day he'll shoot whoever's using it. Well, that gun's gonna shoot you one of these days. And then there are those who see this misty weather as an opportunity. I'm afraid the biggest example of this is in colleges. In universities, some administrators expelled officers who did not comply with their own thinking structures without providing a basis for any Turkish Cypriots. It's a comedy that they first exported the officers and then asked them to defend the people they exported. The 10th article of KHK (KHK) 667 cannot be decided to stop the prosecution in cases launched under the scope of decisions and procedures. You are already bringing it to an end. The rule of law, judicial independence, separation of forces, and the destruction of democratic principles, such as respect for human rights, has deepened. It's almost as if it's persecution by the hand of the judge. It is unacceptable for such an attitude and extraordinary unlawful conduct to be bound by the law. To expect democracy from law that doesn't work unless you run the law is nothing more than imagination. We're going to finish in a month and a half. You're trying to create a country with a single voice that you're growing like a rubber, but one day, the State of Emergency you've extended will turn around and explode in your own hands. Look, the President said in 2013 that we would not walk with those who betrayed us. Despite what the Security Directorate issued in 2015, Fetullah Gulen (fetullah) described as a terrorist group, the Social Security Agency has paid a total of 46k euros for 30 months to June 2016. And that, my friends, is the answer the Ministry has given to our motion. And we asked the Ministry: "Hayrola, why did you pay this money to the head of the organization?" And the answer is: "There is no legal limit to prevent payment of the months." The Ministry said. That's what you guys do. There is a saying: "There will be no king from the lion of the jackal that is bound by the fox. " There will be no good for anyone and no one will receive it from you. The law you murdered, the democracy you murdered, the education you slaughtered and the death of your brain, will come one day and you will be crushed. Finally, we ask you from here, and we expect an answer: will AKP coupgers be arrested? Will your representatives who pose with the authority answer? Are you going to answer to the people who are going after public lands? Are you going to clean up at the Supreme Election Board? We will continue to ask these questions and reveal the truth at any cost. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0183par0147	Thank you, Mr. Tiger Liberty. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 10 of Article 10 of Article 10 of the Turkish National Assembly of Turkey shall be changed into "for the reasons of the actions" of Article 10 of the article (1) in the 412, which has been discussed under the State of Emergency. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0184par0154	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0183par0155	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0185par0156	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0186par0157	Motive...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0183par0158	I'm having it read. It is foreseen that the provision of matter should be made clearer and more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 11: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "the date of the release" of Article 11 of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey's Article 11 of the article "on the date of its release" regarding the direct agenda of the Article 128 of the Code of the Law concerning the measures taken under the State of Emergency No. 412. 667." İsmail Faruk Aksu Kamil Aydın Deniz Depboylı Ruhi Ersoy Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the 11th Amendment be changed in the following manner, in accordance with the existing 23/7/2016 dates and 667 rows of the Law. 4/10/2016 "In this case, 11 - (1), it takes effect in the date of the release of the decree under the Law." Senal Sarıhan Muharrem Male Nihat Green Gürsel Erol Mustafa Tuncer Turabi Kayan Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of Article 11 of the Law Rule 412 be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Merkel Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Huda Kaya Ayhan Bilgen Mizgin Irgat Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0187par0187	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0183par0188	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0188par0189	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0183par0190	Mizgin Irgat, Bitlis MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0189par0193	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. I have made a pledge on Article 11 of the Law of 667. Yes, as many of the witnesses we've been listening to since this morning have expressed, Turkey is currently suffering from a very serious trauma. We're talking about a process in which every legal, political, personal, in every sense of society has been through a very painful time. In the European Court of Human Rights, practices for Turkey's extraordinary state of affairs have been unfortunately put into practice twice as many times today, perhaps once more. Of course, we, lawmakers from the region, as a paralegal friend of yours from Bitlis, come here in the extraordinary state of state, where we operate. On October 4th, a peasant woman who went to Bitlis to pick walnuts was sadly killed by bombs thrown from fighter planes. In return, the statement issued by Bitlis Governorate says the operation was carried out on charges of aiding the organisation. So without trial, without police intervention, without arrest, without warning, there have been bombs on civilian citizens, a second Roboski, but none of you have said anything about it, and now the villagers in Bitlis are waiting for justice, asking for the account of the unlawfulness, the brutality of the State of Emergency, and the investigation to be conducted here is awaiting the results of fair and administrative trials. When we looked at the exit process of the ordinances in Turkey, we experienced a process of complete joy. There was a civilian blow to the public in the name of fighting the coup. We did the coup to the government, not to the people. It was clear that it was not so at all. The coup was done to everyone in this country who said, "I'm not from the AK PARTY." Thousands of officers, thousands of educators, without trial, were expelled overnight, suspended. The detention processes of Hakeza... the unlawful crime and punishment that mankind's history, law history has won for centuries, have been restored to a number of legal rules in one night. Within 30 days of detention, the prosecutor, the judge, the lawyer are away from the lawyer; the detention centers try to be left alone by citizens and police, not by zero tolerance, but by full tolerance. So, when we look at the entire application, we're dealing with a Turkish person who's failed in law and democracy, who's way behind the age. The only way to get out of here is for thousands of people who voted for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to give up this process as soon as possible; the extraordinary state of things is to give up the illegal, illegal process as soon as possible. While the issue of the denial and culture of the Kurdish people in Turkey should be resolved with our people in the commissions where all problems and economics and other problems are discussed, and in this parliament, we should be able to resolve our problems with our people in accordance with the laws of extraordinary state and the laws imposed in accordance with that, with the KHK (KK) and over the years to come. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say we give up these antidemocratic laws that will keep our people occupied, and I salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0190par0201	Thank you, Mr. Irgat. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the 11th Amendment be changed in the following manner, in accordance with the existing 23/7/2016 dates and 667 rows of the Law. "In this case, 11 ▪ (1) it takes effect in the date of the issue of the Law. Senal Sarıhan (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0191par0210	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0190par0211	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0192par0212	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0190par0213	I'm reading the reason: Reason: Change has been proposed, considering that the correct expression exists. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration be replaced on the date of the release of Article 11 of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey on the basis of the Article 128 of the Act of the Law and on the agenda of the Constitution of the State of Turkey in accordance with Article 11 of the State of Emergency. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0193par0221	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0190par0222	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0194par0223	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0190par0224	Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu, Hatay MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0195par0227	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding Article 11 of the Council of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, number 412, under the State of Emergency Act No. 667. I salute your high council. On October 18, 1991, Azerbaijan, who left the Soviet Union and gained independence, celebrates the independence of Azerbaijan, giving greetings and greetings to the people of Azerbaijan. Dear MPs, on July 15th, I curse our democracy, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which represents the will of our beloved nation, the main headquarters of our Turkish nation, the units of our heroic police, the coup attempt to be struck by the saintly and noble Turkish nation; I say, "Let your followers, those who have prepared this environment, be questioned in the face of the great Turkish justice, let all the details of this incident be investigated again to the Gazi Parliament, our beloved nation." Honorable MPs, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in his speech at the draft ceremony for judges and Republican prosecutors, there are now people from the world who give us advice: How do you know so many names, how did you immediately bring them in? I'm sorry if the government doesn't know about all this and the information. Now, I ask you, who are the political responsible for all of this? The cause of this coup attempt has not been discovered before. If the state knows all of this, the President must explain it as well. Mr. President, when will this great nation hear and learn the main staff of the infamous and crusader organization called the peace council, which Mr. State Gardener has repeatedly stated? It's not known what a government officer is accused of at the lowest level, but as the authorities rise, why do you slow down, hesitate, fail to understand it? If the July 15 coup attempt had taken place, who would have held the fate of Turkey in the hands of the state and the politics? It is of course our right to know the answers to those questions. Dear lawmakers, another issue is that the same attractive, cerebral and deterrent measures that have been fought against the ▪ are being applied to terrorist organisations such as the PKK and DEAS, which we expect to be consistent. When will the officials, businessmen, NGOs, media bodies find out that they deserve it? What else is expected to happen in order to cut ties with the state of the separatists who have been identified as members of the PKK to begin with? Why is it that those who have been cut down by ceberut are silent when it comes to the PKK? You must also fight the PKK's terrorist organization as you struggle with it in an extraordinary way. You cannot ignore PKK's companies, the known political foot, the organisation of civil society, the financing network, while the social and economic network is being decrypted and destroyed. You'll have to make the necessary arrangements if necessary. Dear lawmakers, all traitors who attempt to harm the Turkish nation must be wiped out and eliminated completely. It is also very clear how and how far the parallel gang has spread, especially in the area of judiciary, education, university, bureaucracy, and law enforcement. However, it is necessary for the government to take into account the intense disturbances and calls of the criminal and the innocent to be involved. Complaints are wrong to see literature of victimism and to be underestimated, and they are absurdly engaged. He says the creation of victims with false accusations and hidden witnesses that are not determined by concrete evidence is not to be given the opportunity of society's new resentment and Turkish enemies, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0196par0236	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 11 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 12: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 12 of the 12th Amendment shall be replaced in the following manner by the current law, which is dated 23/7/2016 and 667 rows. 4/10/2016 The Council of Ministers shall carry out the provisions of this Law. Senal Sarıhan Muharrem Male Nihat Green Mustafa Tuncer Turabi Kayan Gülay Backuper Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 12 of the Article 12 of the Article 12 of the Constitutional Assembly of Turkey shall be changed in accordance with Article 128 of the Code of the Law and directly on the agenda of the Council of Turkey under Article 128 of the State of Turkey. "1) The provisions of this Law shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers." İsmail Faruk Aksu Kamil Aydın Deniz Depboylı Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 12 of the Law Rule 412 which is currently in session. These provisions can be carried out by the Council of Ministers. İdris Bauken Merkel Danış Beştaş Hüda Kaya Ayhan Bilgen İbrahim Ayhan Mahmut Toğrul Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0197par0265	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0196par0266	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0198par0267	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0196par0268	İbrahim Ayhan, MP of Şanlıurfa who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0199par0271	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, I salute you all. Of course, on July 15th in Turkey, we had a very bad process, we had the time, it's the acceptance of all of us. We were faced with a violent coup attempt, but we were also faced with practices and practices that have categorically increased the practices that followed the development and the coup attempt. So we're all living through the time that we've all been through, so to speak, a coup d'état worse than a coup d'état. It can be said that we are going through a very dark, very dark time. In paralyzing public space, a liquidation operation in many business sectors, including education, continues to increase day by day. More recently, on September 6th, 11,294 members of the educational education-SEN trade union were suspended, and the reason for this suspension is because they used their legal and constitutional rights on December 29th as a means of leaving a day's work. Thus, people who exercise their democratic rights, who come from freedom, who exercise their rights from trade union rights and demands, are being eliminated by the State of Emergency regime. So, this liquidation process is not a fight against the coup, but rather a struggle against the coup, it is directed at all opposition to the AKP's government, which eliminates social opposition. This is what's being done, I'll take a hit against the fight. It's called. We're dealing with an unprecedented practice anywhere in the world. Nowhere in the world can you respond to a blow to a blow. It is not possible to eliminate the law against the coup, violate democratic rights and freedoms, and destroy them. Today, if the coup is a thesis, if the coup is a reality, then the most precise, most decisive method against the coup is democratization. So what needs to be done is to implement policies that eliminate obstacles to democracy that expand rights and freedoms, and what is done besides that leads to a tremendous amount of depression in society, a tremendous amount of insecurity in society. Not a day goes by that social crisis, social events don't grow. Society's kind of paranoid. There's a tremendous lack of confidence in people about tomorrow. People have a huge lack of confidence in each other, and that leads to major traumas that will not be possible to make up for in the future. You have to do all this in order to investigate your own power and for the safety of your own power, a certain minority and the welfare of a certain minority, and you're actually doing this. All of this -- today, perhaps because the AKP is in power, it sees it as untouchable -- but it is practices that will sacrifice the future of society and destroy the future of society. So today, the claim to defend democracy by saying it's against the congregation is not entirely true. Democracy is not advocated; democracy is actually slaughtered by a number of demagogic words, demagogic phrases. What needs to be done is to maintain democracy in a strong way, to institutionalize democracy. Otherwise, fascism cannot be institutionalized and waged a fight against the coup. The coup can't be eliminated by liquidating public space. Social opposition can't be fought off by being eliminated. Today, lawmakers in the AKP must also be vigilant. The future of all Turkey is wanted to be blackened. The future of all Turkey is wanted to be eliminated by this method. So the way you do it is not a way to deal with existing diseases, but a way to increase diseases more. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, what needs to be done is to give up this wrong and embrace democracy as soon as possible. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0200par0278	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. : The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 12 of Article 12 of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey shall be changed in the following manner regarding the adoption of the Article 128 of the Law on the measures taken under the State of Emergency No. 412. "1) The provisions of this Law shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers." İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0201par0286	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0200par0287	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0202par0288	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0200par0289	I'm reading the reason: It is foreseen that the provision of matter should be made clearer and more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 12 of the 12th Amendment shall be replaced in the following manner by the current law, which is dated 23/7/2016 and 667 rows. 4/10/2016 The Council of Ministers shall carry out the provisions of this Law. Senal Sarıhan (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0203par0299	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0200par0300	Government?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0204par0301	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0205par0302	Motive...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0200par0303	I'm reading the reason: A change has been suggested, considering that there is the right expression. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 12 accepted. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Before we vote on the entire rule of law, I will make a pledge to the two lawmakers who have demanded the color of the vote in accordance with Article 86 of the Civil Code. First speaker, in favor of Yozgat MP Yusuf Başer. Here you go, Mr. Basher.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0206par0313	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in accordance with Article 86 of the Civil Code concerning the Constitution 667. AS AK PARTY, from the moment we were established, we had principles to remove the obstacles to basic rights and freedoms, to enforce the fundamental principles of law, to defend the state of law, to defend the rule of law. On November 3, 2002, we are a government that temporarily removes decrees from Turkey's agenda as the first act. So at that point, we, the AK PARTY, don't want this kind of procedure under normal circumstances. Turkey, however, was attacked by an unprecedented coup attempt on July 15, 2016. We've applied for decrees under the law to eliminate this coup attempt as soon as possible, take it off Turkey's agenda. Our goal is to eliminate this extraordinary state as soon as possible, ensure that Turkey continues its course within the normal legal system. In these feelings and thoughts, I say we will vote in favor of the rule of law, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0207par0317	Thank you, Mr. Basher. Against İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0208par0321	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, Mr. Yusuf, our Yozgat MP, I wish he wasn't a lawyer. At one time, he was also the mayor of the Bar in Yozgat. When he was president of the Bar, he really defended law, justice, but when the ruling party came to its place, he walked away from law, from justice. What am I supposed to say? That means it's changing according to the seats people sit in. Dear friends, the state of emergency, the ordinance of the law, all of which are the institutions and organizations brought in in the constitutional sense. When you look at it, in the case of the spread of violence in the Constitution, yes, the state of emergency can be declared, but not in the sense of exclusion of the law; it is not in the sense of outside the law; it is in the form of law that the problem is resolved, not in democratic methods, not away from the law, but in the form of law. So, when we look at it, what do we mean here? The executive body must not be in the way of the legislative body; the executive body must not act quickly before the legislative body, and the Council of Ministers can only make arrangements under the powers vested in its legislative body. Otherwise, we would say that the age of the authority of the legislature here is that the 7th Article of our existing Constitution forbids the transfer of its legal authority. The action here is seen as a complete transfer of the authority of law to the executive body, which is not appropriate, because what is available is that the law of authority has its borders, its frames, and its frames were drawn. But the limits and boundaries of the laws that come our way have been crossed. Now, what is being violated by these laws -- in the form of titles -- in the form of these laws? 1) The citizen's right to work is violated, a constitutional right. 2) The citizen's right to a fair trial is being violated. 3) The freedom of a citizen to travel is being violated. 4) Citizen's right of property is being violated. 5) The citizen faces persecution, torture, and abuse. 6) A violation of individual freedom and security. 7) The right of life is being violated. How do you say the right to live is violated? When legal security goes up, property goes up, torture and abuse are tortured, people execute themselves, so they commit suicide. 8) The right to education is being violated. When we really look here -- Turkey -- it's like going towards the Middle Ages. Now heading towards the Middle Ages. When we call it the Middle Ages, what is the bill for the provisions of this existing law? The number of arrested officers is 7,016, the number of arrested officers 6,488, the number of arrested high judges 157, the number of arrested journalists 131, the number of arrested governors, the number of trustees 154, the number of closed media out of 165, the suspended school 2,094, teacher 78,064, and the number of detained police in custody has reached 12 billion euros in terms of property. What does that mean? Turkey has a three-month balance sheet; Turkey has been turned upside down. For him, it is against the Constitution, it is against international agreements that this decree is passed because Parliament has been bypassed by this law. Since there will be no law against international agreements under the 90th amendment of our Constitution, we will vote against this law. I hope, and I hope, common sense wins. Thank you all, and good evening.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0209par0338	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Baluken, I see you have a request. Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0210par0343	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey will hold a crucial vote on the history of democracy. From the very beginning, we, the People's Democratic Party, have expressed that the regime, which is intended to be brought into action by the extraordinary state of state and judicial decrees, is based on the fight against Turkey's democracy, not on the fight against the coup, and today we want to say that we are holding that position in the same way. For all political parties, we believe there's a moment of attitude and voting by putting the hat in front of him. The ruling party boasted that it had only lifted the extraordinary state of the Kurdish provinces, saying that Turkey had become normal in the election squares for years. However, due to their lack of governance, they have established a position in Turkey's 81 provinces that has declared a state of emergency and completely disables the KHKs and Parliament.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0209par0346	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Baluken. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0210par0348	Their attitude today, which they say they will approve of the KHK, means denial of all the promises they have made to the people in the past. Therefore, we would like to express once again that if these KHKs have anything to do with the withdrawal, the legal arrangement for the fight against the coup should be carried out according to Parliamentary commissions and the will of the General Assembly. All of these applications are against international agreements signed by Turkey. In the coming days, international organisations, including the Council of Europe and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, will send delegations to Turkey to begin the necessary procedures for the withdrawal of these Turkish Cypriots, which violate international contracts. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, my final word...
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0209par0351	I'll turn on your microphone, please complete, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0210par0352	On the other hand, I have a couple of words to the opposition parties: The regular summit of leaders was held as these KHKs stepped in. The prime minister told the presidents of other political parties that we will make the necessary changes according to your proposals, that we will surely consider everything you say. Look, the Commission has neither discussed these SECs, nor has a single opposition motion in the General Assembly been adopted by the ruling party. Thus, we think that this bitter syrup, which was given to the opposition on its way to the only man's regime, by defining the spirit of Yenikapi, should review the current situation at the same time as where Turkey is leading its democracy. We, once again, would like to repeat to all lawmakers the call for a real fight with the will of parliament, to give up the understanding of fighting the OHL and the KHK. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0211par0355	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. You have a commission request?
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0212par0360	We have a request.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0211par0361	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0212par0362	Mr. President, because of the amendments made by the State of the State of Emergency of 412, and due to the adoption of the regulation by the General Assembly, the name of the regulation will be adopted after its adoption, we have a request for a review of the amendment of the State of the Law to the State of Emergency.
tbmm-2016-10-18sit03spe0211par0363	Thank you. Your request for editing is on the record. Congressmans, this concludes the talks of the ruling under the law. I submit to your votes all of the ordinances of the law: those who accept... those who refuse... the decree of the law has been passed, and the law has been passed. Good luck with that. Under the decision taken, it is Wednesday (October 19th 2016) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00. I bid you good night. Closing Time. 21.14 (x) 412 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 7th Constabulary of the Union, dated 13/10/2016.
