tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Diyarbakır MP Feleknas Uca. Here you go, Mr. Uca. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Congressmans, because it was the first working day of the week, I feel a natural hum in the General Assembly. The speaker will now be on the stand. So I'd like everyone to listen carefully to the minister. Here you go, Mr. Uca.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0002par0013	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Because of the anniversary of the persecution, I have taken an off-the-book promise on behalf of the HDP Group over the problems of the Ezidi women. Tomorrow is the anniversary of the August 3rd massacre. I honor all the oppressed who lost their lives in the massacre. I wish that the women still in the hands of ISIS will be free as soon as possible. I salute all the forces of Ezid who fought in the Shengal. In their religious rhetoric, they pray for 72 people, then for themselves. They reject violence completely, according to their religious beliefs. However, their Kurdish language has been massacred 73 times by different states due to its culture, identity and persecution. On 3 August 2014, the honorable MPs were exposed to the genocide of ISIS in thousands of Ezidi Shengal. He called the massacre "The Oppressors" "The Third Ferman. " Thousands of Ezidi were killed in this massacre, between 5,000 and 7,000 children and women from their six-year-olds to 70-year-old women were detained by ISIS. Hundreds of children, sick and old, died of hunger and thirst. The oppressed children were kidnapped from their families, and they were given to ISIS, and they were taken from their own faith and society, and their religion was changed by force. These were sold in many markets, such as Rakka, Mosul and Telafer. This massacre was intended to wipe out the Crushers from the history scene. Some 3,000 women are still in the hands of ISIS. After this massacre, thousands of Ezidi were placed in refugee camps in Diyarbakır, Şanlıurfa, Şırnak, Siirt, Mardin and Batman, and Midyat, AFAD. Turkey still has no legal status. As a result of our talks in these camps, we have found that women face severe trauma, such as anxiety and mistrust, hatred and anger, difficulty sleeping at night. On the other hand, German ARD TV recorded in December 2015 that there were offices for the sale of Ezidi women in Antwerp. We've made these claims over and over again, and we've submitted a motion to the Home Office on this matter. According to the Ministry's report last week, the District Attorney's office has launched an investigation, but the investigation is still inconclusive. After the genocide, the esteemed lawmakers formed parliaments in the Shengal, and held their own defense against ISIS. We therefore established the Fighting Platform for Women Forced to free all women, especially Ezidi, Turkmen, Süryani, and Arab women who were kidnapped in Shengal. On 15 June 2016, the United Nations Human Rights Council declared that ISIS committed genocide against the Ezids. Honourable MPs, the oppressed are one of the ancient peoples of this land. This cultural belief is an inheritance not only to Kurds, but to humanity. Therefore, Turkey must recognise the massacre of Ezidi as genocide. Furthermore, it must take protective measures and measures to ensure that the oppressors who were forced to emigrate to our country after the massacre survive in safety. The Shengal Women's Assembly calls for August 3rd to be accepted as an international day of action against women's violence and genocide. And to commemorate those who lost their lives in the massacre, women everywhere will make silence minutes tomorrow at eleven o'clock. We invite all women to take this call and participate in the action. Our search for justice will continue until the criminals answer. I hope our struggle will allow all peoples to live freely in their own homes. I'd like to end my talk with a prayer of persecution that wishes all peoples to live together in peace. I've come to the presence of the righteous. I saw beauty and happiness. It's all about unity and solidarity. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0003par0027	Thank you, Mr. Uca. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Kemalettin Yilmakkin, who wants to talk about the July 15 coup attempt and the State of Emergency. Here you are, Mr. Yilmaztekin.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0004par0032	Mr. President, veterans of the Veterans' House, I salute you all. First and foremost, I congratulate each and every one of you on the dignity, courage and dignity you've shown in the face of this terrorist attack by a schizophrenic scholar and his perverted terrorists. Each one of us is signing this honorable message and history from his foundation to the world of a new organization, a struggle for resurrection and salvation. The steel will shown by our president and his staff to his militants and to the owners who hold their arms and collars is the perfect message given by our ministers, our MPs, our saint nation, who have not hesitated for a moment as we walk on tanks. This message is a message that the dark order that surrounds the world will never be able to capture Turkey. In the 21st century, we are well aware of the people's will and the reasons why they attacked an entire Turkish nation in the middle ages, with such a blind eye, and why they were so disturbed by Turkey. We see more and more clearly how Turkey corrupts the equations in the region, how it stands on the necks of those who think they're going to be able to ride in this geography; how those who feed on blood, tears, trials, corruption, and conflicts are suffering against Turkey every day. The more they attack us and this country, the stronger we are, the more we are on the right path. Dear lawmakers, with December 17-25th, with the events of October 6-7th, with various social conflicts, with the coalition process, thought they could take down this nation, this government they couldn't bring down in one night. Wherever in the world, when they saw an oppressed nation, they wanted to break the resistance of Turkey, a nation that had come from Somalia to Bosnia and Bosnia to the heart of mankind, who had no other view of Western and imperialism than of friendship. They said that we should stop the rise of Turkey, which is on the way to correct its relations with Russia, to apologize to Israel, to pay compensation, to take the role of rebuilding Palestine, to teach humanity in its attitude towards our Syrian brothers, to push back the borders of 1915. As our leader, Reisicumhur, said, "Let us avenge the standing of the Blue Marmara, the standing of Egypt, the primordial foreign policy in Iran, Iraq, the humanitarian attitude in Syria, the conscientious objection in Palestine." No matter what they say, no matter what they scheme, no matter what reckoning they enter, this people and their children have spoken. This is the people, ▪ One day all the gears will break, It's our lucky wheel. A hand from the sky wipes out old eyes. We'll have a good time. The slopes will disappear and we'll be on our way. And by the day when it shall come to pass, Next to the slinging stones, the missile, We're different with other worlds. The language, the history, the morality and the faith that survives. They see what a hero looks like. When the earth and the sky say, "I will not give you water, We water every field. We'll go, we'll follow the light trail. The stone shouts, the water's on its knees, and we're gone. One day it'll be evening, and we'll go. Our song is on the lips. The last word of the progeny of the Assim. With Allah's permission and grace, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who stands firm in all manner of trouble, without being shaken by the plague, the storms, the floods, the waves that rise above the disaster, and since 2002, no dark chamber, no unclean account, will ever speak of this land for hundreds of years, as long as its members of the nation have been in office. An attack by this country, where those who saw him as the father of betrayal and the dark system behind him had been prepared for forty years, has been avoided without finding 24 hours. From now on, they're the ones who need to think and to be afraid and to tremble. Because we're here until the day we die, and we're honored to fight until the day we die. Thankfully, the only thing we will lose is our life, and we are members of a religion that believes that when we lose our lives for the cause of right, we will become neighbors of the Prophetullah. I say that a belief greater than that faith, a will greater than that will, a plan greater than that, and a higher power than that, is but the will of God, the plan of God, and the power of God, my holy brothers. God is with us, and I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0005par0057	Thank you, Mr. Yilmakin. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mersin MP Aytuğ Atıcı who asked for a comment on antidemocratic practices during the nation's democracy watch. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0006par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, today's speech is about antidemocratic practices during the nation's democracy watch. I salute all lawmakers who believe that executives who are deceived and foolish and do not see danger right under your nose or worse, should resign immediately. Dear friends, we stand guard every day to defend our democracy against the community that tried to destroy Mersin, Tarsus, Erdemli, and Anamur's Abanoz plateau. Someone who knows the opportunity for this hectic, vital seizure is doing things in Ankara that are not even suitable for democracy. There's a lot of work going on in the coup d'état of September 12th. On the basis of the antidemocratic emergency arrangements, Turkey's Grand National Assembly -- the people's will -- has been ignored and the state is restructured by a decree of three laws. It's antidemocratic. With these SECs, universities are closed, opening. Military hierarchy is being radically altered. Military high schools have infiltrated, the coup is being staged. It's closed with this excuse. And the citizen asks: "Will you shut down the Justice Department, which also includes judges, prosecutors and police who have set up all kinds of scams? Will you turn off the safety? Will you also close the Imam-hap high school and close the Imam-hap high schools because the community police, the prosecutor, are under control? You said, "There are no terrorists in the imam-hakim-hakim." How many of the Imam-hap are you going to answer for this?" Again, the citizen asks, "You have suspended 77,000 public officials in a heartbeat, you have all of them plugged in." You've arrested about 10,000 people, you've tagged them all. You canceled 30,000 passports in one minute, all of them. You've rendered law and judgment dysfunctional. After all, you've created a people who are spiteful of the state, who lack the law, who are victims, who are hundreds of thousands of people. These practices I consider to be an opportunity by traitors to attempt to connect all the institutions of the state to one person. It's called authoritarianization. There is no difference in democracy between belonging to a person and belonging to a person instead of a state. The citizen says: "Yes, we blocked the coup, but it's like the junta is in power." The intelligent Anatolian person says: "The problems cannot be solved by those who created them." One tries to deceive the public, but who? Our citizen asks again, saying: "My child is a hard worker, smart, and has won teaching without stealing questions. She went to study, she didn't go to the dorm, the government didn't give my kid a home, so I couldn't get a house. A congregationer said, "Let's help you." Next thing we know, these parishians are waving at the President, the Prime Minister, the ministers, arm in arm, everyone on TV, they're in-house. So We accepted their help, so that there would be no harm for them. If I am guilty, if my child is guilty, why are the rulers of the state free, and why are the elders innocent? Yesterday in Mezitli, an unemployed father at Drumtepe won the university for me. I applied everywhere to study, asked for a scholarship, never got a scholarship. One of them came out, and said, "We will help you." We went to this place where our elders pointed. Now that my child is in custody, who will answer for it? They also say: "Why is my child in an environment where people who are trying to destroy the state of the Republic of Turkey, who are giving the congregation everything they want, who are selling the land parcels, who are waving flags in the squares, holding a democracy watch and calling us in? Why is democracy being slaughtered? Dear friends, the skill of the state's man is a democracy, not a trophy from the coup, the plague. Our salvation from chaos, peace and prosperity comes from absorbing patriarchal values, not from banning the August 30th Victory Day. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0007par0070	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. According to Article 59 of the Civil Code, non-responsive talks have ended. Now, I'm going to go into the electronic system, and I'm going to take turns making a promise to the lawmakers who want a word. First words, Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0008par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. It is clear that the attempted coup attempt on July 15th was a foreign invasion attempt. Our nation, who saw the traitor attack, has flocked to the squares and airports at the call of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has protected his chest, and has shown the world what it means to defend his country, unity and unity. The national unity and unity of our nation on July 15th is March 18th, August 30th, a national day that is no different from May 19th. On one hand, our beloved nation of national wills, the traitor, asks that members of the public institutions be singled out and held accountable in front of the nation's judiciary, while on the other hand, the new constitution demands that our democracy be closed against such treacherous attacks. I say that the democratic constitution, based on national sovereignty, will be carried out in the constitutional text of this national union and our union, and I salute the Veteran Assembly and our nation.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0009par0079	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0010par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey is one of the most important institutions in Europe, one of 47 countries of the Council of Europe, and is one of 44 European Council of Europe countries that has lifted the death penalty. The European Convention on Human Rights, which was signed in 2005 and is legal, has lifted the death penalty under any circumstances, including the 13th supplemental Protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights. President and government officials have made statements regarding their stance on the death penalty. According to our Constitution, the 13th Protocol, which is legal, must be withdrawn. In such a case, Turkey will have to give up its membership in the Council of Europe and its integration into European values. Therefore, I urge the president and the government to be more sensitive about this.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0009par0083	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0011par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the regulations of regulations under the rule of law are limited to the third joke of Article 121 of our Constitution, the second joke of Article 122. There's no way that the issues of which the state of emergency can be arranged in an extraordinary manner, in accordance with the laws of the law. It is against our Constitution, the Convention on Human Rights of Europe, to issue decrees on matters which are not required by the state of emergency. I would like to say that the political government must make arrangements in this area, and that other arrangements are known as victims of innocent people.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0009par0087	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0012par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. After the coup attempt on July 15th, military schools were closed with a decree under the law. All the students who are students at these schools and who are not involved in the attempt and who have stayed for a short time to graduate report that they have suffered serious losses. Let the students investigate us, our state, MIT. Let us who are loyal to our government and who are studying in this school for service be given the right to graduate from our schools and to serve in the army. In the meantime, in order for age not to burn alongside the dry, every suspension and arrest must be made very sensitive and not cause harm. We have received numerous applications where citizens report complaints. I thank you for the need to be more sensitive in that sense.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0009par0091	Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0013par0093	Thank you. August 30, 1922, when our struggle for independence against imperialism was won, we took our land back from the invaders. Therefore, celebrating today is the debt of all who live freely in this land. Just as Mustafa Kemal Ataturk did not ask permission of anyone in his struggle for independence, I announce to government officials here that we, the republic's children, will not ask permission to celebrate Victory Day and fill the squares with enthusiasm. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0014par0096	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0015par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey left behind a serious bodybuilder on July 15th. After this process, thousands of people were taken away from their public work. There are detentions for businessmen, bureaucrats. Of course, the coupgers must be punished most severely. It's our greatest hope that this process will end in a healthy way and that innocent people will not be victimized. On the other hand, politics must be taken into consideration in the process of involving thousands of people from public staff to their general, to their bureaucrats, to their businessmen. In order for our democracy to be crowned and never to suffer again, the members of the organization within politics must also be cleansed. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister if there are any politicians who have been identified in connection with the work? If so, when and how will they be processed, and how will they be followed in this regard? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0016par0103	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0017par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. There are serious speculations about the properties of these military schools and barracks. Some of the rare areas where cities can breathe are these military areas and architecturally special military schools. They must be protected. The cities have already become uninhabitable. Is it a good thing we have the military, and they're protected here. Are we going to see what we call high buildings tomorrow? This must be prevented, and there must be a satisfactory explanation. Several imams are suspended as members of the Fethullah Terror Organization. So do we want to close the mosques and the Diet? As healthy as that is, I think closing military barracks is an equally unhealthy approach. I'd also like to know if they're planning any investigations into the areas where the city's municipalities are giving up parcels of land and building schools for them.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0018par0109	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0019par0111	I'm asking the Minister of National Defense: the coup attempt of the national defenders has been prevented by the upright stance of Parliament and our people. The state of emergency has been declared to clean up the workers. We've been asked to meet our citizens on the streets. Songs and songs continue to be celebrated in the squares. The palace and bridge openings have been held, and all kinds of activities are being held. Although this is the case, different excuses have been made and so far, the celebrations of our national festivals have been prevented. It is now announced by the National Minister of Defence that the Day of Victory (August 30th) cannot be celebrated. We strongly oppose this decision, and we want it removed. This wrong decision will reduce the participation of our common denominator of national holidays, which will make coup entrepreneurs happy. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0018par0113	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0020par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish God's mercy to our officers who lost their lives yesterday at Bingöl. My condolences to their relatives and to our people. As you can see, our country is still unmanageable, as it were. Dear friends, the church-masked Fethullah Congregation stole the KPSS questions in 2010 and gave them to its relatives. The people's children couldn't get a job. Investigation, years and years, I need it, and let's wait. It's been subsidized with its understanding. Let's find out who caused this, but let's never put innocent Anatolian children in the same position. Erdogan, in charge of the last 14 years, unfortunately we've been seriously mistaken, he can say, "God forgive us." How is that possible? Whether God forgives or does not forgive is a reckoning in the Hereafter. What matters to our people is the account in this world, and this account, of course, will be asked by the Republican People's Party in this world.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0021par0119	Mr. Kayan...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0022par0121	Mr. President, the coup attempt on July 15th has been repelled and a great danger has been overcome. The coup attempt has caused great concern in our society. Taking advantage of this atmosphere of anxiety, fishing in the murky water, carrying out acts such as witch hunting, is another danger. That's the kind of question our people are starting to ask. What does it mean to ask for the resignation of nearly 1,600 deans? 60,000 officers were relieved of duty. Are all these people parallelists? If they were parallelists, who brought them to these positions and positions? Isn't there a crime against those who bring them to their posts? Since they committed this crime, will they be punished or punished? In our country where the execution is being discussed, I say these should be spoken of, and I offer my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0021par0123	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0023par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Following the State of Emergency announcement, the activities of the school, the university and some businesses have been shut down due to its involvement in the organization, but the rights and future of employees in these schools and workplaces have not been considered. In addition, many of the employees here are considered suspects in society, even though they have nothing to do with the congregation. The teachers of some of the schools who taught in my constituency, Bursa, are one of the victims. Young, idealistic teachers who favour modern, secular, scientific education are only unemployed because of the closure of their schools. I would like to ask that these innocent teachers, who have no crime and have no stain on their record, and that their victims be relieved immediately, and that the Ministry of National Education consider this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0024par0128	Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0025par0130	Mr. President, thank you. After the coup attempt, we know that about 20,000 teachers' licenses have been revoked, and these schools have been shut down. What is the sin of these teachers, who once praised, raised, and worked hard for bread money in these schools licensed from the Ministry of National Education? While you're legitimizing and raising these coupters, we'd like to know what these politicians, executives, teachers, officers, and academics are paying for when they encourage them to work in these schools while they praise them.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0024par0132	Mr. Grandson...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0026par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. It is a very positive decision to move military barracks out of the city under the State of Emergency decision. Istanbul and Ankara, however, are left with the question of what will be these military areas, especially in Turkey's most beautiful and most valuable territories. It has raised great concern in the public that these areas will open up and create a door of rant that will benefit the ruling owners or their supporters. The great struggle of our nation in the elimination of the coup attempt has been the most important indicator of the national will, which the opposition parties have shown. Now I know, I do, in the construction of the state by ignoring the national will. It is the greatest injustice to the national will to act on the idea. These areas should be viewed as areas of democracy and freedom, not as Rant fields. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0027par0137	Mr. Whitebird Illustration...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0028par0139	Mr. President, thank you. The Minister of National Defence has announced yesterday that there will be no festivals of Victory Day on August 30th, and that there is no atmosphere of celebration. We want to remind you that August 30th is not an ordinary date; August 30th is the date when a nation defeats the good fortune of a nation and destroys imperialism with the awareness of being a nation on the land of Anatolia. August 30th is the glorious date when a devastated country broke the chain of captivity for its weary people. August 30th is the saga of Nene Hatun, of Corporal Halide, of Sharibe Bani, of Corporal Nezahat, of Emir Ayşe. August 30th is the legacy of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and of his thousands of heroic sons. Don't let those who want to make you forget Reaching out like a mare's head to the Mediterranean This country is ours. The wrists are covered in blood, the teeth are tied, the feet are bare. And the earth that looks like a silk carpet, This hell, this paradise is ours.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0029par0147	Thank you, Mr. Illgezdi. Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0030par0150	Mr. President, the Minister of Customs and Trade has announced that the July 15 coup attempt against secular democracy by the terrorist organisation is worth $300 billion. Although the coup was prevented, the economic consequences proved to be more severe. Tourism and agricultural exports have suffered major damage. Farmers have suffered the most damage. The price of the product has gone down, even below the cost of collecting. Pre-plot product sales contracts were thrown out, unfortunately the farmer had to sell the product for half price. As a farmer's MP, I respectfully salute the General Assembly, adding additional measures that increase export opportunities and develop the incentive system to overcome the problems of the agricultural sector.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0029par0152	Thank you, Mr. Nurlu. Minister of National Defence, Mr. Fikri Izlu, there is also a request for a statement. Under Article 60 of the Civil Code, I give the Minister my word for a minute at his place. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0031par0156	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to thank our congressman friends for their contribution. What happened on the night of July 15th is a reflection of the spirit of August 30th, the best indication our nation has of the same spirit. My statement on August 30th ceremonies is that only military vehicles will not be used at the parades on August 30th. My intention is not whether or not the 30th of August is performed. The government and the administration will consider it. However, because of the trauma that took place on the night of July 15th, and because of the low-flying images of planes still being traumatized in our young people, tanks going out onto the streets, I meant that military vehicles would not perform at these 30 August ceremonies. Through all my congressman friends and all of you... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0032par0160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0031par0161	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0032par0162	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I will have the motions read separately. In the second place, the motion to conduct a parliamentary survey will be read over 500 words, but the full text of the motion will be included in the Tutor Magazine. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to explore the extent of the destruction of protected areas such as the national park, natural status area and private environmental protection zone, and to determine the measures to move protected areas into the future, we are required to open Parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. 1) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Isparta]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] [[Denizli]] [[Manisa]] 10) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 13) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] 14) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[Sinop]] [[Balıkesir]] 21. Honorary Name Beautiful [[İstanbul]] 22. Revolution Root [[Antalya]] 23. Aydın Bellehlivan [[Adana]] Turkey has made legal arrangements to move it into the future, maintaining unique natural beauty and biological diversity, with areas home to its history of thousands of years. In this area, 2,742 different areas across Turkey have been protected under 13 different positions, such as the national park, the nature park, the wetlands, the natural site and the private environmental protection area. It is vital that historical tissue and natural structure can be moved into the future without decay. In recent years, however, serious destruction has been seen in areas of protection in many areas, particularly Antalya, who has hosted more than a hundred protected areas, due to zoning and mining activities. According to data from the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs, areas protected throughout Turkey (including natural sites and private environmental protection zones) reached 7 million 883,551 hectares in 2013, while at the end of 2014, 5m722,474 hectares were reduced to 522,474 hectares. The percentage of protected areas has dropped from 10.11 per cent to 7.34 per cent. The sites such as Phaselis Ancient City, Olympus Beydağs, National Park, Bridge Canyon National Park, Kash Kekova and Patara Special Environmental Protection Area are the target of tourism and energy activities. In addition, recent changes in plans to cement Kash, which owns Turkey's most private beaches, are being discussed in public. The Kabş Municipality and Antalya Metropolitan Municipality are demanding that the area covering parts of the Kash Kekova Special Environment Protection Area and the third-degree site of the Kırkuktle Peninsula be opened for tourism facilities. The change of plans to cement the two municipalities will be lower than planning as a tourist site for housing." For such reasons, it is reported that the status of the olive groves needed to be protected in the area has been changed in one day to be built. Attempts to open protected areas as olive groves, natural sites and private environmental protection zones in Kash have shown lack of protection legislation. This makes it necessary to make protection legislation more effective. For these reasons, a parliamentary investigation is required to determine the extent of the narrowing and destruction in protected areas, particularly Antalya, to determine the measures that would really protect protected areas. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition, we respectfully offer and offer the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and Parliamentary Council, in order to determine the reasons for the environmental problems that are happening in our country, the policies that need to be established, and the measures that need to be taken. [[Burdur]] [[Ankara]] 3) Ali Haydar Hakver [[Ankara]] 4) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Sakarya]] [[Adana]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] [[Denizli]] 14) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 18) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] 19) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 23) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Sinop]] One of the most important problems in the world and in our country that could threaten future generations seems to be environmental problems. As a matter of fact, the rapidly increasing world population, unhealthy urbanization, unplanned industrialization, nuclear testing on land and sea, unconsciously used pesticides and free use of all kinds of chemicals have been the most important causes for environmental pollution and has caused significant environmental problems to emerge in this framework. The natural result of this is that the contaminated air, water, and soil have reached the extent that will negatively affect the lives of living creatures. During their thirteen years in power, AKP governments remained insensitive to environmental problems in our country and were unable to address any problems. Water pollution is shown in Turkey at the beginning of environmental problems. The pollution of all kinds of water, as it harms all living creatures around or around the basin of pollution, prepares the environment for the extinction of various species and biological communities. Although Turkey is one of the lucky countries in the world in terms of water resources, pollution is increasing in relation to agricultural activities, industrial activities and settlements. In this case, industrial waste, chemicals and radioactive materials that reach water sources, seriously disrupt the balance of nature. Air pollution, on the other hand, is one of our country's major environmental problems. Among the main sources of air pollution in Turkey are domestic warming, industrial businesses' activities, exhaust gas emissions, and thermal plants' activities. Air pollution has reached serious levels, especially because of poor fuel use in major cities in our country. The condensation of acid rain and pollutant gasses caused by dirty air, pollution and pollution of soil irrigated by water in various ways, pollution of medicines used in agriculture, and the long - lasting storage of solid waste without decomposing through the necessary processes. The noise pollution, the advances in technology and changes in the way of life are described as unwanted sounds, which have negative physiological and psychological effects on human beings. The noise level the International Standard Organization considers normal is 58 decibels, while noise over 90 decibels of human health is harmful and noise over 140 decibels is causing serious brain damage. The environmental impact of agricultural medicine is also growing negatively in order to meet the food and nutritional needs of the rapidly increasing population and to get more products. As a matter of fact, pesticides are involved in the natural water system through rainwaters and soil, by mixing wastes of the pharmaceutical industry into streams, by washing empty packaging containers in streams, or by random waste disposal. On the other hand, the procedure and basis for the environmental harmonisation of the areas in which mining activities have been terminated or reinvented to nature are based according to the Convention on the Reconstruction of Lands Disrupted by Mining Act 27471 in 2010. On the other hand, hydropower plants (HES) have been known to have a lot of damage to the environment from the installation stage to the construction stage. As a matter of fact, construction wastes and debris that occur during the installation of facilities are not considered by companies and are not cleared enough. In this framework, we respectfully submit and propose the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the reasons for the environmental problems in our country, the policies and measures that need to be established within this scope, and the measures that need to be taken. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to Article 127 of the Constitution, local administrations are state-run individuals whose foundations are defined by the law to meet the common needs of the province, the municipality or the village, and the decision-making bodies are also elected by voters who are shown in the law. The municipalities established and operating under Law No. 5393 are important in all of the Mahalile administrations. Recently, a major campaign has been conducted in the media, trying to create a negative perception of CHP's mayors. A variety of media reports show that the mayors have been corrupt and have been unfairly profitable and that the increase in their assets is unfair. These reports are in the press all the time, but the Republic's prosecutors and Interior Ministry inspectors are shy about the investigation and investigation. As a result, CHP's mayors are applying to the judicial authorities to investigate allegations related to them. Mayors from opposition parties, particularly CHP, have been trying to bring public service under difficult circumstances, and have been subject to pressure and intimidation policies by the government for the past 13 years. At times, it is possible that more inspectors from the city staff would examine municipal accounts for months at a time as a result of these policies. It is also known that the Ministry of Interior does not hesitate to give permission to investigate when it comes to CHP municipalities, and Ministry officials do the most overtime in CHP municipalities. However, not a single corruption file has ever been found, and these municipalities have come out of these investigations in every field. However, several allegations have been raised by Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, especially ahead of the June 7th elections, about the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor, which has been said to be announced after the elections on this issue, and so far no action has been made. According to practices so far, corruption claims about AKP municipalities have been raised, and the Ministry of Interior has shown effort at the point where they are not allowed to investigate. Although there have been several serious allegations in the past, including Adıyaman and Kayseri, there have been no adequate investigations, the matter has been undercut. It undermines the public conscience and the understanding of social justice. No matter what party the ruling or opposition belongs to, municipalities must function in accordance with the law, not leave rights and laws when using public resources, and make sure that each citizen's taxes are used for the right public service. Therefore, the public needs to examine the increase in assets of all mayors in Turkey today, not in campaigns conducted through newspapers, but under the roof of the TBMM, in a truly fair and honest manner. For these reasons, we propose and propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, to investigate whether the mayors' assets have been increased illegally. [[Malatya]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] 4) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 6) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 11) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] 18) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Denizli]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Demirel, I see you have a request. Under the 60th Amendment, I promise you for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0033par0349	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, with the coup of July 15th, along with the OHR Act, which has been tried to re-examine and develop these practices for coupgers, in fact, today, today, we see how much neglect in all rights, human rights, and all areas of life in Turkey has increased, and we live in it. Those who want democracy to be built in Turkey and the public to have democracy, unfortunately, we are facing an approach that restricts democracy to all living areas, detentions, tortures, and all living spaces. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] When we look at the state of the country today, we're actually going through a process where there's no possibility of moving freely from prisons, from detention. Let me put it this way: so far, when we've expressed the massacres in Kurdish provinces, those who have said and said that nothing like this has happened, they've declared a state of emergency with the impact today across Turkey, but, at the moment, the government has already turned the same practices into a form of martial law in Kurdish provinces, without legally building the extraordinary state in the past, without actually implementing it. So I just wanted to say once again that these unfair and unlawful practices have to be put to an end.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0034par0354	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The 13th General Assembly meeting of North Korean Refugees and Human Rights International Parliamentary Coalition will be held between 29 August and 31 August 2016 in Seoul, the capital of the Republic of Korea. The meeting will be presented to the General Assembly under the 9th Article of the Law on the Establishment of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990, under the 9th Amendment clause of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I submit to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0035par0367	I demand a sufficient number of decisions, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit01spe0034par0368	Yes, there is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0034par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly. Now, I'm going to re-offer the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. According to Article 92 of the Constitution, the Prime Minister has a thesis: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The United Nations (UN) Security Council's decision, dated 25/4/2013 and 2100 (213), was adopted by a unanimous vote for the establishment of the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stability Mission (MINUSMA) in Mali. MINUSMA's latest mandate for UN Security Council's 29/6/2015 resolution was defined as the country's stability, support and control of the ceasefire process, implementation of the peacekeeping road map, support for the national political dialogue process, the protection of UN personnel and civilians, and promotion of human rights, and support for the protection of human beings, humanitarian aid activities and cultural assets, and in the event that MINUSMA is under immediate and serious threat, the UN Secretary-General's request is allowed to intervene in order to intervene in support of the building, the French troops. On the other hand, the UN Security Council's ruling, dated 10/4/2014 and 2149, was established by the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stability Mission (MINUSCA) in the Central African Republic. There are issues such as protecting civilians in the task directive of MINUSCA, protecting and supporting human rights, disarming civilians in the areas in which they are deployed, identifying and registering threats to the civil people, contributing to the functioning of political life in the country's transitional process and the establishment of state authority in the country, ensuring the country's territorial integrity, facilitating humanitarian aid, protecting UN personnel, protecting human rights and supporting human rights, and supporting return to the country, and supporting reform efforts for the security facility of security in the Central African Republic. The UN has invited our country to participate in these missions. In addition, the summit for Peacekeeping, held during the UN's 70th General Assembly talks, asked our country to contribute to the UN missions in question. The military contribution to the solution of human and political crises that pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa is considered to be a natural extension of our active foreign policy in the region and in general on the African continent. I move from this approach to allow Turkish Armed Forces to be sent abroad as part of the operations and missions carried out by the United Nations in Mali and Central African Republic, and to use these forces within the framework of the government and on the basis to be determined. We'll start the reviews. Government? Here. I will open a meeting on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the groups, the government and the individual, I promise two members. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. I'd like to present to you the names of the members of lawmakers who have taken the stand on the proposal: National Minister of Defence Fikri Illum on behalf of the government. On behalf of the groups, Özturk Yılmaz, Ardahan MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Kadir Koçdemir on behalf of the National Movement Party Group; Ayhan Bilgen, Kars MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Şirık Ünal on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP. Two members of parliament will speak for the individuals; first Murat Minister, İzmir MP; second Burhanettin Uysal, Karabuk MP will speak for them. Now, on behalf of the government, National Secretary of Defense Fikri Illum. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0036par0024	Mr. President, I stand before you on the grounds that the Turkish Armed Forces will be granted a year's leave under Article 92 of the Constitution under which the government will be allowed to operate abroad as part of the operations and missions carried out by the United Nations in the Financial and Central African Republic. Members of parliament, I would like to briefly share my feelings and thoughts on this matter with you on the basis of taking the floor of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the first time since the traitorous coup attempt on July 15th before its contents. First of all, get well soon for our nation. On the night of July 15th, during the coup attempt by this terrorist organization, I wish God's mercy to all of our martyrs who have endured these terrorists and lost their lives to do so. And to all of our veterans who were wounded on the night of July 15th, I pray to my Lord for a speedy recovery, and my condolences to our nation. On the night of July 15th, there has been a night where we are once again registered what a great nation we are. It is the greatest blessing for me to have seen the same landscape, the same picture on July 15th, especially after the 1974 Cypriot Operation, when I was a child, when I saw that the right man, the leftist, the Alevi, and the Sunni, came together with a national emotion of every different opinion. At this point, we have seen once again the nobility that exists in the genes of this noble nation on the night of July 15th, and we can't thank our nation enough. In the process, of course, these traitors, these terrorists, unfortunately these terrorists in military suits, they dropped bombs on our nation without blinking, they fired bullets. Of course, I want to stress that we don't call them soldiers; we don't call them Turkish officers, Turkish petty officers, Turkish soldiers; we call them terrorists in military suits, and we never associate what they do with the Turkish Armed Forces, who have a glorious past. I'd like to express in particular that our Turkish Armed Forces are trying to do their best at this point. That evening, our nation showed a great deal of solidarity. After the call of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our nation stormed into the squares immediately after Mr. Prime Minister's call to live televisions. One of the things that we're most happy about here is that only the AK PARTY responders, not only the Republican People's Party members, not only the National Movement Party members, but the nation, as a whole, followed this call and showed once again that it was the nation of difficult times. And of course, we also thank all of our people here who followed this call that night, who went out into the street and landed in the field. But this Veteran Assembly, which led the Salvation War, unfortunately had to work under the bombs that day. The most important indicator of the magnitude of betrayal, and the most important indication of their betrayal, are the bombs they threw at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which was the purpose of the nation's will that evening, the nation's unreserved sovereignty. So I thank all of our MPs for their noble posture and determination. Our Coven is the Veteran Assembly, but this building, which was launched in 1961, is now a veteran. It is our duty never to forget the July 15 coup attempt, and I truly believe our Parliament will take very special measures at this point. Again, I'd like to say good luck to all our deputies. I'd like to thank all of our MPs in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for their solidarity. I believe July 15th will be a milestone in the history of Turkish democracy. From now on, we'll approach each other with more tolerance, more leniency. From now on, we'll settle our affairs in a more intimate dialogue. After the July 15th event, especially the party's leader's attitude is an important indication that we are looking forward to the future with much more hope. I also want to thank all the presidents who have worked hard and worked hard at this point. May God not destroy our unity. We're all doing politics, of course we'll always look at things from different fronts, but if it's about the country, everything will be left behind. With that understanding, I believe we'll move forward, and I believe that the Assembly of this era will provide excellent examples for the future in Turkey. My dear friends, now, I'm going to share with you some information about the content of the thesis, and at this point, we're going to ask you for authority on behalf of the government. The first of the missions that constituted the thesis was the Fiscal Multidimensional Integrated Stability Mission MINUSMA, which was carried out by the United Nations Security Council on April 25, 2013, and was carried out in Mali. The mandate of the mission was finally extended until June 30, 2017, when the United Nations Security Council ruled on June 29, 2016. THE MINUSMA mission was formed to support and contribute to the country's political process and security as a result of the worsening security situation in Mali. The main tasks under MINUSMA have been described as maintaining stability in the country, supporting, monitoring and monitoring the ceasefire process, implementing the peace process road map, providing support for the national, political dialogue process; protecting UN personnel and civilians, providing support for the protection of human rights and the protection of cultural entities through incentives. The operation, which is currently being carried out by approximately 12,000 personnel from 52 countries, is being contributed by 2 police officers by our country. Mr. President, the second mission, which constitutes the subject of the thesis, is the Central African Multidimensional Integration Mission MINUSCA, established on June 10, 2014 by the United Nations Security Council's Decision 2149, in the Central African Republic. The mission's mandate has been extended until November 15, 2017, with the UN Security Council's July 26, 2016 decision 2301. The mission was created by the rise of violence in the Central African Republic, ethnic and religious conflicts in 2013, and by the decline of security and human condition in this country. Its main goal is to identify and register a threat to civilians among the missions of the growing conflict and the protection of civilians in the middle African Republic, to contribute to the functioning of political life and the establishment of state authority in the country in the transition process, to preserve the country's territorial integrity, to facilitate humanitarian assistance, to protect and promote human rights, disarming and supporting return to the country, and to support reform efforts for security in the Central African Republic. Our country is currently contributing with 1 police officer to the operation, which is being carried out by approximately 12,500 personnel from 49 countries. The United Nations has invited our country to participate in the missions in question. In addition, our country has been asked to contribute to the UN missions at the Peacekeeping Summit, held during the 70th General Assembly of the United Nations talks. Our country continues to continue to develop without the peace of the United Nations, increasing its active contribution to every action from climate change to the UN Security Council reform efforts. Our country is involved in a wide range of peaceful, primitive and effective security policies, both as a single force and through international organisations, including the United Nations, and among countries contributing to peacekeeping operations. Turkey, which has built the foundations of security policy on co-operation and partnership policy, continues to focus on issues such as maintaining the country's territorial integrity and stability, contributing to collective defence and crisis management operations in order to preserve international peacekeeping, humanitarian aid and police duties; preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction and the means to launch them, and promoting disarming. On the other hand, the understanding of security on a global scale of international cooperation, dialogue, and soft force to promote stability. Furthermore, increasing the weight and efficiency of our country's territory and the world is one of the most important objectives of our foreign policy. One of the leading indicators of visibility in the United Nations system is that it contributes to international peace and stability. Our participation in peace-supporting and protection operations also helps boost our international policy activity. Our country contributes to ten UN peacekeeping missions in various parts of the world with a total of 136 personnel, including 41 military personnel, 93 police and 2 experts, as of June 30, 2016. Turkey is also contributing to NATO and the European Union's peacekeeping operations in various parts of the world, including Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, other than the UN's direct operations. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made additional commitments by member states on September 28, 2015, as part of the United Nations General Assembly talks, in order to address the shortcomings faced during the UN peacekeeping and missions carried out at the summit of Peacekeeping Leaders, which we are represented at the Prime Minister level. The summit was declared by our country as our additional commitments to provide a transport aircraft to be used in the operations of MINUSMA or MINUSCA, with five headquarters stationed at MINUSMA headquarters. Our African partnership policy includes assisting the establishment of peace and stability on the continent, political, economic and social development, and freeing political, economic, commercial, humanitarian aid, restructuring, security, public diplomacy and mediation. In Africa, contributing to the solution of human and political crises that pose a threat to regional stability and peace is also a requirement of our country's policy and a goal is to resolve problems quickly for the welfare of the people of the region. Under our African policy, Turkey follows a policy to ensure territorial integrity and national unity of the Mali and Central African Republic, to successfully conclude national reconciliation efforts, to ensure political stability and sustainable economic development in the return to democratic order. In addition, military relations include military training and military aid to the continents in accordance with bilateral agreements. Military personnel from African countries participate in courses and training activities performed in Turkey. Ending the conflict environment in the Mali and Central African Republic is important in the sense that these problems do not concern other countries. As a matter of fact, it is thought that the instability here will strengthen terrorist organisations in the Sahara-Sahel region as well, given the geographical positions of the two countries. As for Libya, the development of power in the region suggests that the problems that may occur in this region could pose an important threat to us as well. In this respect, it is thought that the contributions to MINUSMA in Mali, and MINUSCA forces in the Central African Republic will be positive to our relations with all kinds of terrorism, as well as to the strengthening of the country's governments against terrorist organizations. Mr. President, it is a strategic priority for our country, a country from the Ottoman Empire to the present day, to take part in a new African policy that has entered a new era in harmony with the facts of the 21st century. The military contribution to the solution of human and political crises that pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa coincides with our country's approach to peace support, as well as a natural extension of our active foreign policy, which we are monitoring in the region and in general in the African continent. Mr. President, I give the government a year's approval to allow the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces to be sent abroad as part of the operations and missions carried out by the United Nations in Fiscal and Central African Republic, and to use these forces under the framework of the government and the basis to be determined. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0037par0048	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now I'm going to promise the political party groups. The first speaker for the groups is Özturk Yilmaz, Ardahan MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0038par0054	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group today that the government's declaration on the participation of forces from Turkey will be conducted within the United Nations in the Mali and Central African Republic. I salute you all. Now, of course, there's been a lot of talk about the July 15 coup attempt, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk about the impact on our foreign policy during this session I've been promised. Once, after 2010, there were about 30 coups or initiatives in the world, seven of which resulted in a coup, while the other 23 were left as a coup attempt. Both of these countries went through a coup today, considering our contribution to the financial and Central African Republic. In 2012, there was a coup in Mali. A month and a half later, there was a coup. There was also a coup in the Central African Republic in 2013, so we've been hit as a country under the coup attempt, helping two countries in the process of political transition, in which the coup took place. We want to contribute to the peace and stability of these two countries. On July 15th, first of all, this kind of initiative in Turkey in this century is something we will never accept. We were indeed the worst of blamers on that day. Personally, I was one of the first to condemn the coup attempt at 11:30 from the very first time I heard it. The fact that Turkey is the subject of such a thing in this century has in no way contributed to Turkey's image, and the people involved in this initiative have been humiliated. The Turkish nation has rebelled because it has claimed democracy, we have to take care of it. Our political party preferences on this matter would be different, which is normal, but all four political parties in this parliament have opposed this coup attempt, and our people have avoided the coup with this opposition. First of all, we need to understand this. With this impact process, there will be serious reflections on our foreign policy. What are those reflections? One: countries that are subject to the coup process in Turkey or the world are under the radar at times like this, wondering what you're doing. It is wondered how you will complete this process, how quickly you will complete it, how quickly you will complete it. There are two ways in front of Turkey -- let me tell you this before we go. One is that the democratic field is narrowed down, in times like these, the democratic area is narrowed down. We can give examples of some countries, so it's thought to centralize power, reduce democratic space, and thus ensure that trust and stability can be achieved, and that the framework is governed as the state is ruled by the law. After all, it's a road that narrows down and shrinks the democratic field. This is an area that the international community deals with with with anxiety. The second way: there is a blessing in every evil. They say, "There is a recovery from this and the democratic area is expanded." There are many examples for countries who have gone through the coup process. In this process, it is also important to ensure normalisation immediately, to end the rule of law of state in Turkey; to immediately put the state on normal ground; to expand the democratic area, to expand the field of fundamental rights and freedoms, and to highlight the democratic property of the state. Without a doubt, our choice is the second way, the expansion of the democratic field. First of all, Turkey is currently taking a democratic test in the eyes of the international community. What the government is doing, what the President is doing, what the Turkish people are doing. What we're doing is there's been a coup, something very bad has happened for Turkey, but how we're trying to get through this, what direction we're moving in, under the lens. First of all, it's not just about us how we follow this process. And he's out there watching us very closely. How will Turkey survive this process? How long will it take? They wonder if democratic rules, institutions, will be put on the shelf. We've got a few areas ahead of us, especially the delicate ones we need to take. One of them is our relations with the United States. You know, when the U.S. and I first disagreed, it was about the PYD in Syria, and that was before the coup attempt. The second issue was the extradition of Fethullah Gulen. A third issue came up along with the coup attempt, which is Turkey's claim that the United States was involved in this coup, especially in political power or in some circles close to political power. Personally, with no global power, without concrete data, if we make such claims, we will have serious problems with the removal of international relations. Because such accusations are based on concrete data, and if such a claim exists, if such a thing exists, it should be explained and we as opposition parties should condemn it. However, if this is not being acted only on purpose, if it is being acted only on thought and is being acted on certain issues that have not yet been proven true, then there will be a global debate on this issue, and we personally think that Turkey should be sensitive about it. The second issue is the issue with the EU. Of course, it may be criticised that the European Union does not respond as much or as much as they are asked for the coup to take place. However, this does not mean that the European Union will not criticize Turkey as a country negotiating fundamental rights and freedoms under its principles, it should not be taken from this, it shouldn't be forced to be subject to criticism. In particular, the most important issue of the European Union is how our relations with the European Union ahead of the coup attempt, which is already weak, weak, and at some point even at a point, will take place in the future. Personally, if Turkey does not spend this process on basic rights and freedoms on the development of democracy, enrichment of democracy, consolidation of social harmony, we will also be criticised. Again, one of the most critical issues we can get is about the death penalty. We've had martyrs because of the coup attempt, unfortunately, it's too hot, any idea can be discussed, any thought can be brought forward. Our responsibility as a state is, of course, the responsibility of those who run the state is to listen to the demands of the people; there is nothing more natural. However, we think it would be more appropriate to assess this in a broader frame, consider the reflections that may be related to Turkey, and take that into consideration in that framework. Because we don't think it's in our best interest for Turkey to be a subject of unnecessary polymixes, to be a subject of unnecessary debate, to narrow down the maneuvering field unnecessarily at this time. In this regard, we think it would be helpful for government officials to take care of this particular process. Another thing: Now, there's psychological anger, there's anger, there's anger in society, and there's anger in the West as a result of this outburst of anger; we see this, and we see this, especially in the government. But that shouldn't be a choice in foreign policy. I mean, relationships don't go with them anyway, or they don't support us as much as we'd like. It's necessary to act with understanding, like this, and not drag Turkey into a new place that can or can be understood that way. In this framework, especially after the coup attempt, I would like to mention a few things about relations that have accelerated with Russia: of course we are a party that advocates normalisation with Russia, normalisation with Israel, normalisation with Egypt from the beginning, and we have full support in this regard. Normalization has to happen. However, this normalisation should not be developed to cause a debate about the axis, so Turkey's relations with the West will not be perceived as a matter of choice between Russia and Russia, and Turkey will suffer. Turkey, in particular in the Middle East, is compressed on issues Turkey is currently on. Relations with Russia, therefore, should not be an alternative, but a complementary element to the West, as a requirement of multi-dimensional foreign policy, and should be handled like this. Yes, another matter related to Iran. One of the first countries to react immediately after the coup attempt is Iran. Before the coup attempt, however, one of the countries where our relations may not have been too hot was Iran. One of the hottest countries before the coup attempt was Saudi Arabia, but seven or eight days after the coup, he condemned it. And this shouldn't be approached by emotion, so there shouldn't be any emotional dissolution in our relations with countries. Turkey is going through a difficult process, it's been through a dangerous process, and as a result of that process, we have eyes on us. That's what we need to know. We need to know that we've never been alone, that no word said here has been wasted outside. They don't have to look into what we're saying, but we know they're considering everything we say. Relations with Iran must be assessed and this should be improved, but there should be no discrepancy in the Middle East, especially when it comes to the attitude of countries who were close to Turkey prior to the coup process. So Turkey must be able to get through this period with its mind, with its mind, with its imagination, with its emotions, with its reactions, not with its rage. That's the responsibility of the state. That's the only way our proud government can survive, where we've felt its presence for thousands of years. In this period, we will receive similar criticism of Turkey's issues in the Middle East, especially in relations with the West. We need to be sensitive about this, too. One of the most important tools in our foreign policy is our army, which is the element of national power. He must remove the bruises inside our army, punish them. No one here has any objection, but we must avoid any rhetoric or hints that will wear off the army altogether. There is no other way to survive in this geography. See, the night of the coup attempt, it was explained by the Greek people: if only we had a plan for preparation, the Turkish soldier didn't know if the coupgers were coming that day, the Greeks were coming, we would go and take the soldiers in the north and we would take the island. The wolf likes the misty air. We need to avoid actions that will bring down our own army, the army coming out of our own nation, from the ground like this. I'd also like to share something with you about committees or delegations going out. Of course, they'll tell us about this coup attempt, about the contents of it, but those who go away will wear off our own institutions inside of us, avoid actions that might be a laughing stock to others. As a result, there have been Turkish people who oppose this coup; there have been many peoples, there have been many factions, there have been oppositions, and the power is here. In fact, we are only ridiculed by complaining to others about our own institutions. In other words, we called it the most important army of national forces. Look, the army's new construction is being watched very closely outside. It's being closely followed by two points. One: Turkey is a NATO member, and they're following. They follow how the military hierarchy in Turkey is formed, how it is shaped. Two: our neighbors are out following us. They're following what kind of construction will be done by the army, which is the most important foot in Turkey's deterrent element, and we need to know that. In this framework, we see different structures of command, especially in relations with the military. We're looking at the decision structure of the Third Amendment, and we're looking at a commitment to the presidency of the Chief of Staff. The Joint Chiefs have been linked to the Ministry of National Defense. Gendarme and Coast Guard are connecting to the Ministry of Interior. Let's make a conclusion: Today, the political power and the President are in the same line, and in the event of an extraordinary situation tomorrow, you can quickly gather these forces and subject them to a command structure. But how will the Joint Chiefs of Staff act when there's a coalition tomorrow or when the government and the President are on a different line? There are examples of these. If we're so corrupting the command structure, there really are questions here. We need to be careful here, and we'd like you to take this warning in good faith, please. Another issue: One of the most important foreign policy issues in this period is the struggle against ISIS, especially when the cold winds blow with the United States. Turkey must not be buried too deeply in the fight against ISIS. This is not a period for Turkey to be buried in, it is a period of recovery. In order for Turkey to recover, the nation must now hold on to democracy, as it has to, and it will recover, and Turkey's internal issues have entered a place that is very concerned about the outside. It is no longer necessary to say "outer policy" or "outer policy." The democratic developments inside concern the European Union, the United States, the structure of the military, NATO, and the reorganisation of the army in geography concerns the forces in our region, the structures in Syria. This is a delicate period. It's all intertwined, and with that precision, we have to keep an eye on things. We will give our support as Republican People's Party to missions in the Mali and Central African Republic. Yeah, these are little missions. We send three policemen; two go to Mali, and one go to the Central African Republic. There is no Minister... we will support them, but let us know that right now Turkey's image is contaminated in the outside world. Being the subject of the coup has corrupted Turkey's image. Now, please, let's understand each other at this time and listen to criticism. When we say something, we get 100,000 trolls. We're being treated as if we were enemies of this country. Put an end to it, and let others end it. Start a new era for Turkey, start a new era. Let this period be crowned with democracy. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0039par0077	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. On behalf of the groups, the People's Movement Party Group will speak for Kadir Koçdemir, Bursa MP. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0040par0082	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all with respect and conversation. Today, at noon, Mr. President of the Garden, we were at the Lakefront, where we lost the most of the security forces on the night of July 15th, and we reminiscent of that nightmare. At the beginning of my words, I say to this nation, God forbid they ever give this country such a nightmare again, that on the 15th of July and on the domestic security field, we offer our martyrs God's mercy and our condolences to our nation. July 15th was a coup. A blow to what? It was a coup against democracy. After July 15th, when it comes to a country's legacy, the Constitution has been declared a state of emergency and the work is carried out. But when we look at this practice, we benefit from a reminder of some things. First, it is important that you go toward the right goal, so that your direction regarding the target is correct. But most of the time, your speed towards that goal is more important than your destination. If you're going to the right target at the wrong speed, you'll either be too late or you'll crash, and you'll never get there. After July 15th, until 15 July, Mr. President's chief of staff, the Chief of Staff's Chief of Staff and Chief of Staff, and while this terrorist organization is in the government, its research, its investigative institutions are at work -- our National Intelligence Agency and others -- and they are still struggling with this terrorist organization, according to their findings. How accurate and accurate their assessments were seen on July 15th. It's important to keep in mind that they'll have a margin of error in their findings from now on. If we do it the same way, I'm afraid there's a chance it'll lead to victims and injustices again. Complaints about it have also started to grow in recent days. And again, the fact that this happened was in itself, so of course, four of the four parties here had a common attitude about the people who did it. But causing it to happen and challenging it must be something we don't miss. The eternal and eternal victim situation has never been given to anyone or the institution. This is especially true if it is used in the name of the nation. July 15th has once again demonstrated how important the separation of forces is to ensure the state of law and the state of law. It's particularly useful to keep this in mind in the steps after July 15th, because if you make judgment and security, executive and judiciary transition into each other, and you provide the same mentality, the community's effectiveness in both areas, then these controls, balance and balancing mechanisms will be disabled, and you will come to July 15th. Another issue, friends, is the source of legitimacy in democracy. In democracy, all bodies -- primarily legislation, execution, judgment -- use the authority they receive from the Constitution. However, in these organs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a separate place because it is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which makes the constitution and gives its authority to other organs. So, in a manner of speaking, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has jurisdiction. If today -- as we see in this courtroom, we have 15-20 MPs from the ruling party -- if the Turkish Grand National Assembly voluntarily disables itself on important issues, then there's no real difference between what the coupgers are trying to achieve as a result. Friends, some of us are ministers. In 24 hours, when you become a minister, you don't mention anything to our friend about insight, knowledge, the state's presence, the right attitude. They're like us, and they're taking over. In particular, I would like to remind you once again about the status of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in matters related to the military. Look, we're here today to make a statement, and we're going to vote because according to Article 92 of our Constitution, the military's commander-in-chief is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Armed forces in Turkey are a Parliamentary army. If you look at Article 104 of the Constitution, the President's commander-in-chief will be demoralized on behalf of the Parliament. In large regulations concerning the Armed Forces, we must discuss, consult the Turkish Grand National Assembly, decide the possible outcomes here, and decide accordingly the future and our savings so far. Otherwise, as before, if we move in the same way, there'll probably be more and more issues here to make amends. We need to pay special attention, especially in maintaining the military's command unit. If this breaks, the Balkan War is the closest example, we'll face the plagues we've seen so many times in our history. Again, it is also an example of how informally the preparation process was before the Turkish Grand National Assembly raised its finger. Because in Africa, our Armed Forces have been assigned, and this practice continues, and we are talking about extending it today. But the results we've achieved in our missions so far, the expenditures we've made, these countries and the countries that are next to them, our economic, cultural intimacy, where stability has been achieved, what goals have been achieved, and which are not reached, there is no notice in the transcript. So what's been done there for a year, we don't know the consequences. And when we don't know the outcome of that, my friends, our decision to extend for a year will not be a step on the ground. This is particularly important when it comes to stepping on the ground. Our National Assembly is making a law itself, saying: "In financial matters, there will be an analysis of the effects of the laws with financial consequences. " This is where it comes from, but since November 1st, we've discussed many financial aspects of the law here, and I haven't read any impact analysis. How much money we're going to lose, how much competition we're going to have, we haven't done that. But the fact that I didn't do it doesn't make up for it in the future, folks. Look, yesterday, it appeared in the newspapers; 6,250 vehicles a day passed through the Osmangazi Bridge, if we had assumed 40,000 cars a day -- a 16-day drive-by. So, when our commitment doesn't go through, the part that we're going to complete with our taxes is 85 percent; we've assumed 40,000, 6,250 vehicles. In two weeks, $60 trillion or so, $20 million was paid from this citizen's pocket to finance and repay this bridge. You know, you could say it's new, there's Victory Airport, between Afyon-Kütahiya, where 900,000 passengers a year, and we assumed it would increase by 7% every year. What's happening, fellas? Forty-five thousand. There, we transfer money from tax revenues to the company that runs the world's airport. The odds of it happening there are even lower, only 5%. If these accounts aren't put in front of us, when they're done, you know, democracy begins with the right of the Magna Carta, which is tax. If we can't do that here, we're making ourselves dysfunctional and dysfunctional. Life has an unchanging law not only in biology but also in social life; dysfunctional organs, dysfunctional institutions are eliminated, and they can't fulfill their duties, they fill their duties. There are some similarities in matters related to the financial situation that we will consider today. You know, Mali was independent in 1960, he was a French colony in 1880, and from the mid 1500s, he had a very serious connection with the Ottomans. In particular, ancient writing was an important center in the 17th centuries, 16th in the university and technical area. Since his independence in 1960, there have been many coups in the financial community. After the coup in 1992 and the constitution adopted by the following public vote, Mali was cited as a model of democracy in Africa. However, it didn't last very long, especially when democracy was interrupted by the riots of the Tuaregs, in the north of the country, and the last time in March 2012, a declaration of an independent state called Azavad in the north raised the curtain on this country, which was called an example of democracy in Africa, and revealed the terrible truth. The soldiers who fled the Libyan civil war became a country where financial stability could not be achieved by the activities of Al Qaeda-like structures in North Africa, ultra-religious terrorist organizations such as Ensar Din. In 2013, France was called to help, and it was sought by the government in the financial community and by that Operation Serval. Then, as our Minister stated, the multi-directional Stability Force Program was activated here by the United Nations. Our country is continuing its relationship with this country, which has been our close relations with its embassies. Apart from this program, we continue to co-operate in development, technical aid, handwritten artifacts into digital media. However, there are lessons from the financial community that we will learn. When we look at finance, friends, we see that politics has control over the judiciary and the press. There's a criminalization of the opposition. As soon as you start to oppose it, it's capable of making certain criminal definitions. The state and the economy are in joints. In particular, the drug trafficking mafia from Latin American countries is using this as a transit point. In doing so, politicians, security guards, government officials, businessmen, mobsters, all mixed together, and the boundaries between them are indistinguishable. Again, here, collectively, we have failed to provide emotion, the nation is incomplete. French is an official language, but 13 languages are considered official; 35 different languages are spoken, consisting of three mother tongue families, and Mali, the presidency, is run by the semi-presidential system in line with France, for example. The president is elected for two five-year periodes, and there are 147 seats for the National Assembly and 13 seats for the Malians abroad. The unsolicited sense of us in this country is the main reason why the country's instability is constant. In that sense, we, too, are urgently obliged to complete the nationalization as a great and honorable family that all of this country's members will feel and feel that they belong to. We think it's a good opportunity to use the situation after July 15th. If we take steps that will help polarize and camp the already polarized Turkish community, and not use it for that, believe me, it will be much harder to make amends than to solve our problems so far. For him, today we need more dedicated statesmen, more than ever; more than ever, we need a democracy that operates with all institutions and rules; more than ever, we need the Grand National Assembly to fulfill its function within this system, to make a decision about what is happening, to create opinions, to negotiate, to create wills, to make decisions all over the decision-making mechanisms. In this regard, it's our best hope that this July 15th will be considered an opportunity. As the National Movement Party, when it comes to the state, when it comes to the unity of the nation, I've given up my case from the two candidates of mothers who came to Solomon. As the real mother said, we love this nation to the extent that we can give up on certain issues for today. We're ready to give him all the support we can. I wish that this thesis would be good luck to ensure the stability of our relations in Turkey-Africa relations, especially in Mali and the Central African Republic, where I salute your grand delegation, in order for people to do better.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0041par0105	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. Third speaker for the groups, Ayhan Bilgen, Kars MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0042par0109	Mr. President, I've looked at previous group talks on the deployment of soldiers to Central Africa and Mali. I've looked at talks on behalf of groups in the General Assembly. You know, after November 2014, what changed in Mali, Central Africa, with the United Nations mission, how much the conflict was reduced, how much the violence had ended, what the United Nations had accomplished to establish peace, to dominate human rights there, what did the United Nations accomplish, and what have we now debated over the continuation of the same thesis? On the one hand, I don't find it too serious about the way the United Nations almost exists in the square, the way it's organized, the structure of the Security Council, the way it's organized, the way it's built, the way it's been questioned by the Permanent Council, and on the other side, sending one very serious police into a crisis such as ethnic and religious conflict, sending three soldiers, and presenting it as the peace mission, and discussing it here, in fact, I don't find it very serious about those who follow us. Of course, a conflict anywhere in the world, a crisis, a crisis, a violation of human rights, it concerns all of us in the name of active foreign policy, we all have to care about it, and we have to take responsibility for it wherever there is a breach. We have to care about universal values beyond the interests of the country, but even when you do a little scan in the press, you can see that there are a few reports in Mali, Central Africa, about U.N. troops that are being reported to the Turkish press, and they're just reports of rape of women and children in refugee camps. So, now, do we have an initiative at the United Nations to control this power, to plan the movement of this force? No, we're not, but because of our international commitments, we have to do our part. Bottom line is, we're just doing the right thing here. Dear lawmakers, of course, it's not important to discuss and question the United Nations mission in these countries without questioning why the war continues, who fuels the war, who supports the conflict there. We all know that the interest in Central Africa, the interest in finance, is due to uranium or other precious mines. The French now know by the world their attempts, their efforts, to continue their role in the past. Now, on the one hand, while the U.N. is doing all sorts of different things there, on the other hand, it's almost like the United Nations -- I'm telling you -- it's like a front structure, it's like a decor structure, it's supposed to be a human, it's supposed to be a peaceful mission. Now, when you're discussing a mission, you examine the balance between the goal of that power and the possibility of reaching that goal. If the vision is truly true, if the mission is true, will we be serving this mission or not? Well, now, it's in the middle. There are countries with coups. In both countries, soldiers were hit by civil governments, claiming that neither Mali nor Central Africa could prevent conflict, and then chaos grew, the conflict, the ethnic, religious conflict deepened, and the United Nations sent peacekeeping forces there. So, now, why is this conflict going on, why isn't the United Nations active, why can't it succeed, why can't we argue about it, we can't argue about it, we can't offer that kind of data. There's no data in the information presented by our National Secretary of Defense that he's just given us that's quantifiable, worth considering. So, what's the point of deciding a job, a repeat, without considering what's going on in a year? Dear lawmakers, close to the government -- look, I'm putting aside other NGOs -- where AFAD and NGOs in the semi-official position, and some NGOs close to LHP are related to FMI, about Central Africa, about the conflict, about the people in the United Nations, about the Middle African community, about what kind of role the United Nations troops have, even if you look at what kind of position they've drawn up in these conflicts, and how they need to question a debate beyond just finishing the procedure, where the United Nations's reputation, the people in the United Nations, the people in the United Nations's position of Central Africa, what is not very legitimate, what is a very perceived position. Let's be in it, let's not stay out of it; if we stay out of it, we have no influence, where the United Nations soldiers, Europeans, Westerners, do bad things. There's nothing credible about saying that because when you compare the total power of the United Nations with your number of soldiers, your cop, your soldier, there, the other country soldier, the police, can't play a role that prevents them from violating human rights, preventing them from doing human rights. There's no parliamentary control over what the soldier, the police, is doing, and there's no such legislation. So, like the German parliamentarians who have recently insisted on coming to İncirlik, how are the Turkish Armed Forces or members of the Police in Africa pleased? In fact, the people in Central Africa have a beautiful Turkish army. Do they or do they not not say that we can't see it or measure it? So, in fact, what we're doing here today, on one side of the street, in the area of the rally, is that we have no choice but to say very harsh things about the United Nations, about the West, about managing perception, and on the other side, we have no choice, we have no other authority, we have no power. Dear lawmakers, the issue of security, of course, is also a technical and expert issue. So, what security bureaucracy thinks about a security issue, how it approaches, of course, is the work of the most soldiers, the police, the intelligence departments, as well as the technical dimension of the expertise. But democracy, quality democracy, quality democracy are now debated with other concepts in this conceptual framework, and there are organizations working on this conceptual framework, especially in the very primitive, and in a country such as....... that are one of the key issues of preventing, preventing, preventing things that can't possibly be said as a possibility -- one of the main issues of civil and parliamentary control of security bureaucracy -- is now that it has become a net, actually an international mechanism; there are organisations working on this, there are units within NATO. From budget to threat assessment, to operations, it is considered necessary for Parliament to supervise, see, not only for Parliament, but for civil rights organisations working in this area, to oversee the issue, as well as for democracy. The matter of the President's commitment to the President of the General Staff, or the relationship of the Joint Chiefs of Staff with the Ministry of National Defence, which has been discussed for several days, of course, can be seen in terms of democratisation, but can be made in one dimension. It may, of course, be a valuable initiative in terms of full control of the security bureaucracy of political will, but we also know that it's the control of the legislature rather than the execution, and the fact that civil, neutral, independent organisations can perform this control function is the real guarantee. Now, without taking this into consideration, without having even intended to discuss civilian control, without even having the courage to discuss it, only the Armed Forces, the President of the General Staff, or to strengthen the position of the National Ministry of Defence, as well as to seem positive, it will never be enough to prevent this kind of development that we live in on July 15th, which has already been through a series of protracted, structural, radical changes that will likely happen in the future. Dear lawmakers, I think one of the things that needs to be focused on the fight against coups is to confront the full disclosure of Parliament's control, of what is the obstacle to the institutionalisation of civilian control. If you consider your human rights organizations, NGOs, or parties in Parliament as a threat to you, if you see them in the enemy category, of course, you isolate the area about the Armed Forces, you make it mysterious, and you actually do things to prevent transparency in order to protect it. But your international engagements, international commitments, agreements, SEAAs, defence economic co-operation agreements with the United States since 1950, military training, weapons purchases, your position within NATO, in fact, is no longer private with the technology today, much less private. Now, why hide what you can't hide from the world, what you can't hide from your own society, Parliament, NGOs? When you hid it, did you really do something for security? The fact that the concept of security is no longer a matter of public safety, but a perspective of human safety, community safety, which allows society to see its ability to use its power against society, against the chosen politician, while it is being discussed in the world where it can play a functional role in the security mechanisms, where it is possible to ensure human safety, while we are still arguing, while we are still delaying this discussion while it is still being discussed, in fact, someone, someone, who has a weapon, has the power to use its power against society, against the chosen politician. In the name of the fight against the coup, we need to carry other concerns as we look at what has been done since July 15th, over the last ten days. It's a typical reflection of the classical, traditional anti-terrorism logic in Turkey that some of the journalists here may know very well, who have a much older law than I do, were arrested for writing only in those newspapers. The matter is measured. If this logic, let alone securing security, peace, peace, on the contrary, your upside has brought consequences that deepen disintegration, breaking in society, testing it again, testing it on another structure, it's not a very smart job, it's very convenient, it's not a good security approach. This approach, as it threatens freedom, threatens security. Look, just because he's doing money transactions in a bank, because he shopped from a bookstore several times in a row, people are being arrested -- I'm expressing it in a nail -- with concepts such as being a member of a terrorist organization, or as a member of a terrorist organization, or as a member of a terrorist organization -- because those statements are in the decree, they're being taken out of office. So now, when you go too far in friendship, you go too far in hostility, I guess we'll have to face it one more time. Because when you ignore warnings in friendship that go too far, and you go after them in aggression, and you punish a lot of people wrongfully, or you discipline them with unemployment, or you scare them with fear because of the newspaper he reads, when you put them in the guilty position that follows, you actually prepare another danger in your own hands. When we look at what's happened in the past week, ten days, I think one of the most serious questions we have to ask is that the organization has infiltrated the military, the police, the judiciary, the property management so easily, so strongly that it has reached a level that will affect almost two-thirds of the staff, the generals, and it has reached a level that will cover it. So, in Turkey, municipalities, parties, places with more protection, more discipline, stronger intelligence, is that why the numbers are pronounced around here, while the numbers in the military, the police, the judge, the prosecutor, or the number in the administration of property are so modest that they can't be compared to the number in the government? Is it because it's not the center of attraction? Or that's the question: I mean, taking over a political party, taking over a municipality is not critical and strategic, but if taking over the military, the police, the judiciary, the judiciary is strategic, then let's sit down and cry about democracy, because if taking over a party has no value, it's decisive, it's critical, but it's critical to take over security forces, then democracy in Turkey is still, unfortunately, not at the level of full democracy, not even at the level of representational democracy. In the last week, most of the work that has been done in the last ten days, valuable lawmakers, whether we like it or not, with anger, anger, response, of course, some of it, even if we don't take it into account, will come to our attention from the European Court of Human Rights against Turkey. There's nothing to be ignored about. So I've made a statement about the 15th article, the 15th article of the contract. You can't get out of it, it's not like that. When you act according to Article 15 of the European Convention on Human Rights, you do not have the right to do what you want. However, there are restrictions, but there are regulations, and yet there are responsibilities that cannot be given up. For example, the arrangement for crime, for punishment not to go backwards, is one of the most basic regulations. So you're saying that despite all of your government resources, despite your intelligence, despite your strong resources, you haven't been able to determine that this structure is so dangerous, that you haven't been able to detect it up to the 17-25 December at least or until July 15th. So the former party managers, representatives of the government, representatives of Parliament, said: "We only realized last night that it was so bad. " Now, the state will only understand this danger despite all the resources it has, but no teacher will ever know that writing in that bank means "no money" or that writing in that newspaper means "supermentalism" Is that even possible? So what you don't know, what you don't know, what you don't, what ordinary citizen, what academic, what kind of equipment a journalist will identify with, and what means will he take a stand for it in advance? Dear lawmakers, in a democracy debate, I think the measure of determination is not good faith. You know, with that famous expression, the road to hell is sometimes paved with good faith stones. Good intentions, after all, are not measurable, not questionable. None of us have the means to measure each other's sincerity in democracy, not one of us has the means to test our intentions in counter-fault. There's only one criteria, and that's consistent. If your actions, decisions you've made, statements you've made, are consistent with the impact, democracy, it's really possible to talk about your fight. I'm putting it all aside, just for the last few days, in a new constitutional debate, a declaration of wills that a party with a third group represented in Parliament can be excluded and the constitution can be made, in fact, be able to demonstrate how dangerous the process is, how much of it has been managed to deepen camping in society, I think. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0043par0130	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. On behalf of the groups, İstanbul MP Smurf Ünal will speak on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0044par0134	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the grounds that the Turkish Armed Forces will send troops abroad as part of the operations and missions carried out by the European Union in the Central African Republic and Mali. I hereby salute your high council. Before I begin my words, I ask all of our martyrs of democracy, who died in the treacherous attacks on July 15th, for the mercy of God, for their relatives, and for our nation. Again, I wish our heroic veterans a speedy recovery, a blessed life, fighting these attacks. On the night of the 15th of July, we had people in every corner of the country, in every street, in every political sense, in the company and in the world. Since that night, Turkey has shown everyone that it has the will to own its freedom and its future by overcoming all its differences when necessary. All negative accounts of Turkey have failed on July 15th. It was thought that if we were to release from the PKK to the DEA, the most bloody, violent terrorist organizations in the world would be able to digest this country. It was thought that if you put uniformed terrorists, planes, tanks, cannons on the street, this nation could be delivered. What does my Lord say? And they plotted, and Allah plotted. God is the best of planners. Let God never cause this pain to our country again. Dear lawmakers, the United Nations Security Council's decision dated April 25, 2013 and the establishment of the multi-dimensional Multi-dimensional Computation Mission in the United Nations was unanimous. In the mission directive of the United Nations Multi-dimensional Stability Mission (UN) on June 29, 2015 and on June 2227, the UN Security Council has been defined as the main tasks to support stability in the country, support for the ceasefire process, monitor and control the roadmap, support for the national political dialogue process, support for the UN personnel and civil rights, and support for the protection of human rights, humanitarian aid, and cultural assets, and support for the protection of multinational UN-dimensional Entresponsibility and in the case of the UN's Intervention Committee of the United Nations Stabilisation Committee, and in the case of an emergency of an emergency, the United Nations Stabilisation Committee. On the other hand, the United Nations Stabilisation Mission was established in the Central African Republic with the UN Security Council's Decision, April 10, 2014, and Resolution 2149. The United Nations' multi-dimensional Stabilisation Mission is involved in protecting civilians within the scope of the mandate of the multi-dimensional Stabilisation Mission, protecting and supporting human rights, disarming civilians, identifying and registering threats to the civilian public, contributing to the functioning of political life in the country's transition process and the establishment of state authority in the country, maintaining the country's territorial integrity, facilitating humanitarian aid, facilitating the United Nations personnel, protecting and promoting human rights, disarming and supporting return to the country, and supporting reform efforts for security in the Central African Republic. The United Nations has invited our country to participate in the missions in question. In addition, the peacekeeping summit, held during the 70th General Assembly of the United Nations talks, asked our country to contribute to the UN missions. Dear lawmakers, one of the founding members of the United Nations and members of many European organisations, particularly NATO, Turkey, as a candidate in the negotiations process for full membership in the European Union, built the foundations of its security policy on co-operation and partnership policy. In this minival, Turkey continues to focus on issues such as protecting the country's territorial integrity and maintaining international peace and stability, contributing to collective defence and crisis management operations, such as maintaining peace, humanitarian aid and police duties, and preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction and launch tools, and encouraging disarmament, while further emphasising the understanding of security based on the global level of international cooperation, dialogue, and soft force in order to contribute to stability. As part of the policy of cooperation and partnership, Turkey is still participating in operations and missions of support of peace under the umbrella of the United Nations and under the umbrella of the European Union, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in Liberia, in South Sudan, in Ivory Coast and Darfur, and in Kosovo, in Kosovo, in Afghanistan, and in the Mediterranean, under the umbrella of the European Union. We also continue to contribute under our policy to sea operations against sea bandits and piracy that are concentrated in the Gulf of Aden and Somalia. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are following a holistic policy that includes both NATO and the European Union, and contributes to the European Union's joint policy of security and foreign policy priorities and national interests by acting on the principle of Euro-Atlantic security indivisibility. Despite all obstacles we face in the context of co-operation with the NATO-European Union, we see the participation in joint security and defence policies as a requirement of our national security policy as a candidate country in the process of joining both a European NATO ally and the European Union. From the day it came on the agenda, the joint security and defence policy was also supported by Turkey by its view of membership in the European Union, supported by NATO-supported or autonomous European Union operations and missions, committed to the European Union's basic goals and combat groups. Since 2003, Turkey has participated in seven missions and operations in the European Union, Macedonia in Macedonia, Macedonia again in Macedonia, Proxima in Macedonia, the European Union Implementation Force in the Congo, the European Union Police Mission in Kinshasa, the European Union Police Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, twice in the European Union Police Mission in Palestine, and two in the police force in Palestine, and the peacekeeping forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina, ALTHEA, the European Union Law Mission in Kosovo. Turkey contributes with 239 personnel to the peacekeeping force in Bosnia, while Turkey contributes with 3 personnel to the European Union Law Mission in Kosovo. Mr. President, our valuable African partnership policy includes helping the establishment of peace and stability on the continent, political, economic and social development, to this end political, economic, commercial, humanitarian aid, restructuring, security, diplomacy, and nonprofit. Such humanitarian and political crises as pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa are also a requirement for our country's military contribution, and for the welfare of the people of the region, problems are being resolved as soon as possible. As part of our African policy, Turkey follows a policy to ensure the territorial integrity and national unity of the financial territorial community, to successfully conclude national reconciliation efforts, to return to democratic order, to ensure political stability and sustainable economic development. In this scope, our country is contributing to the United Nations multi-dimensional Inter-dimensional Stability Mission with five personnel, two personnel to the United Nations Democratic Republic of Congo Stability Mission, 11 personnel to the United Nations Liberia Mission, 23 personnel to the United Nations South Sudan Mission, 11 personnel to the United Nations Ivory Coast Mission with 11 personnel, and 32 to the United Nations Joint Mission of Darfur. A total of 2,198 personnel from African countries have participated in courses and training activities conducted in Turkey, as part of the Centre for Perfection of Terrorism, the Partnership for Peace Centre, the Multinational Marine Safety Perfection Centre and visiting military personnel. The training of 263 personnel is still under guest military personnel. The first of the operations that constitute the topic of the thesis is the military action carried out by the European Union under the name of the European Union's Peacekeeping Force. The Constitution of the United Nations Security Council (UN) is the United Nations requirements of the United Nations Security Council. As part of his department, he received 2134 from the decision he made on 28 January 2014. At the same time, the mandate of the United Nations Security Council's decision was launched on April 1, 2014 by the Council of the Council of Europe to contribute to the restoration of stability in the Central African Republic and to the support of the political transition process. Along with 12 European Union member states, it is expected that our country will also contribute to the operation, which has already been carried out by Georgia and Serbia outside the European Union, with the participation of a total of 741 personnel. In addition to our policy with the European Union, it is a strategic priority for our country, a European-Africa country from Ottomans to modern times, to take part in a new era in harmony with the facts of the 21st century. Mr. President, other missions that constitute the subject of the thesis are a civil mission set up by the European Union on April 15, 2014, based on the European Military Mission and the European Union's decision to build the Sea Capacity, which was established on January 17, 2013, on the basis of the UN Security Council's decision issued on December 20, 2012. The main goal of these missions is to give strategic advice and training support to the Financial Armed Forces and security forces, police, gendarmes and national guards. Such contributions to Turkey and the European Union's joint understanding of the solution of international and regional issues, which coincide with our country's approach to the peace-supporting movement, have made our accession process visible. Precious lawmakers have been judged that the military contribution to the solution of human and political crises that pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa would be a natural extension of our active foreign policy, which we are monitoring in the region and in general on the African continent. With this approach, I would like to express my respect to all of you that the Turkish Armed Forces, which have been granted a year's leave of absence by the United Nations as part of the operations and missions carried out by the Fiscal and Central African Republic, and to allow these forces to be used by the government and under the basis to be established, according to Article 92 of the Constitution, according to Article 92. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0045par0154	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. The talks on the counter for groups are over. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have requested a word on their behalf. First word on his behalf, Murat Minister, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary, I assume he's not in the General Assembly lounge right now. I'd like to invite the second speaker, Burhanettin Uysal, Karabuk MP. Here you go, Mr. Nicesal.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0046par0162	He's here, he's here.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0047par0163	I'm here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0045par0164	No, I've invited Mr. Softal. Here you go, Mr. Nicesal.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0048par0167	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on my own behalf on the statement presented to our Parliament and discussed by our government. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Mr. President, first of all, I curse the treasonous coup attempt on the night of July 15th. On the night of July 15th, in a low coup attempt on our country, I salute all the brothers and sisters who have been on democratic watch in the squares from that day forward, no political party has noticed the difference. On that night, he revealed that our greatest strength was the unity, unity, and brotherhood. The saintly nation has said, "Stop" with its faithful breasts only to fire from tanks, helicopters. He has sacrificed his life without a thought for the values he believed in. Thankfully, we put our clothes on and went out on this road. We have a commander-in-chief who says, "Let our lives be sacrificed to our beloved homeland." I ask all of our beloved martyrs who willingly gave their lives for the defense of religion, state, country, and nation, from God's mercy, and from our glorious veterans. Whether it's the PKK or ISIS, Turkey is too powerful to give in to these tyrants, it has the power to fight any kind of national and international terror. Mr. President, one of the founding members of the United Nations and a member of many European organisations, particularly NATO, Turkey has built the foundations of its security policy on cooperation and partnership policy. Turkey, on the one hand, continues to focus on issues such as the protection of countries' territorial integrity for the protection of international peace and stability, while increasingly highlights its understanding of security based on partnership, dialogue and soft force, as international co-operation is increased on a global scale to contribute to stability. Mr. President, our precious African partnership policy includes free assistance in the areas of political, economic, commercial, humanitarian aid, restructuring, security, public diplomacy and mediation on the continent. Such humanitarian and political crises, which pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa, are also a requirement for our country's military contribution and for the welfare of the people of the region, and are aimed at resolving the problems as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, the political and social crisis, which began following the military coup on March 22, 2012, is still under way. The Sahara is going through a process of instability beyond the Sahrel region, which has had a negative effect on the continental security and has stepped up on the global agenda. During this period, the riots of various groups in the north of Mali (Fali), military coups, declarations of independence in some areas related to the terrorist group Al Qaeda, both Mali and Sub-Saharan Africa, have led a large geography to instability, and these events have occurred. On 6 December 2012, the Fiscal International Support Mission in the African leadership, which was approved by the United Nations Security Council, was launched in Mali, to improve the capacity of the Mali army and to provide support for the establishment of stability in the north of the country. On the move of the rebel groups to the south of the country, the French troops were first involved in military intervention in the financial community, then the United Nations Security Council's 2100 decision on 25 April 2013 and the establishment of the United Nations multi-dimensional Compounded Stabilisation Mission in Mali. The Fiscal Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission of the United Nations is being carried out with elements that depend on our Security General Directorate. Maintaining stability in the country, monitoring and supporting the ceasefire process, implementing the road map of the peaceful process and supporting the process of national political dialogue, protecting UN personnel and civilians, supporting humanitarian activities and the protection of cultural assets is described as the main tasks. Although the Financial Peace and Reconciliation Agreement, signed in May 2015, constitutes an important step towards the establishment of stability in the country, the country's interethnic conflict continues. Finally, after the attack on the military base in Segou, near the border with Moritania, on 19 July, the state of emergency declared in the country was extended for another eight months until March 19, 2017. Despite the efforts to speed up both his military presence and the process of political solutions, there is still no solution to prevent conflict. Turkey fully supports efforts to implement the agreement. The 10th meeting of the Watch Committee, which is important for the implementation of the agreement, shows that mutual understanding among the sides of the conflict continues. Financial stability is important not only for the West African region, but for the entire Middle East and North Africa geography. In this context, the support we provide for the financial community will not only meet our active foreign policy, but also reveal the determination of our African partnership policy. Our economic relations with the region are also thought to be substantially resuscitated by the removal of financial and close geography from the crises. Our economic relationship with the financial community is growing day - to - day. During January-March 2015, our export volume, which was $4 million, occurred at $9 million in January-March in the same period in 2016. The Turkish Airlines campaign, which began as 3 a week in May 2015, has been upgraded to 5 · Global Voices since the end of March 2016. Although our country was left alone by the apostle for democracy countries on July 15, 2016, it is always willing to support the power of the Republic of Turkey to contribute to world peace. To this end, I respectfully salute you and ask that our government be granted the approval of the statement presented to our Parliament, which we are discussing.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0049par0181	Thank you, Mr. Easy. The other speaker on behalf of Murat Minister, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0050par0185	Thank you for understanding, Mr. President, I'm a little late. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Our country is going through a rough patch. Together, we have prevented this coup attempt against the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the parliamentary democracy, which is where national will comes from. Our country has returned from the brink of disaster, and may it be well for all of us. Dear friends, this nation has suffered a lot from coups, and we, the Republican People's Party, are a political party that has suffered a lot from coups. Of course, those involved in this coup will be judged fairly, and they will receive the punishment they deserve, but we must take every step carefully when we are fighting coups and coups. We must not make the mistake of fighting the coup against the country's domestic policy. We mustn't lose sight of every step we take and what goes on in our country as well as our country's reputation in the world, affecting our position in foreign policy. First of all, the question we have to ask ourselves is, how did we get here? After a congregation has been placed in the state with the organisation of cults and has taken over all critical government positions, such as a web of spiders, asking the coupters in the country to settle democracy by establishing their own power, do we have any responsibility in these events? If we don't ask ourselves the question and we don't do a self-criticism, we can't take a step further from where we are. Today, another sect, who has lost its ability to think freely and make decisions, will come and trouble the country, dear friends. In this regard, first of all, political power should look back at its steps in the last 14 years, question the impact of the country's polarisation, the weakening of the state of law and press freedom, increasing authoritarianisation in the country, the solutions that bypass parliament, what did we want? If we say, "We have not made any mistakes in this process, nor any self-criticism." We will take revenge on the coupters. If we act rationally, age will burn along with the rule. If we say, "We cannot separate the guilty from the innocent," our country will lose with this approach. As we deal with the coup attempt, we need to think strategically, bring together common sense with common sense, strengthen our democracy with power and opposition. We need to include political parties in this dialogue, as was the night of the coup in the House. Dear friends, our actions in domestic policy will also affect our foreign policy. If we take the right steps in domestic policy, as we described above, with the common mind, we will create opportunities in foreign policy to make up for the wrong steps that have been taken so far for the past 14 years. Until this period of government, we must return to the foreign policy of the republic, where all governments, right or left, cross the line; we must return to our national foreign policy, which is formed in the perspective of caution, balance, peace. I repeat: caution, balance, peace. Dear friends, foreign policy placed on a sectarian axis has failed in Libya, Tunisia, Egypt, Iraq, Syria. Now, what we need to do is turn our country's foreign policy into the republic's national foreign policy, as in everything else. The foreign policy of the Republic of Turkey was based on peaceful foundations. Turkey has yet to establish friendship and good relations with neighbouring countries that have just come out of the war. In July 1932, Spain's proposal, supported by Greece, became a member of the League of Nations. The Balkan Antarctic was founded with the same understanding, the Montrö Convention is again a diplomatic victory, the Sadabat Pact was created as a result of peace-based foreign policy. It is the common responsibility of this Assembly to ensure that Turkey regains the dignity it deserves in foreign policy. In this regard, we now favour Turkey's support for the missions of the United Nations, as it has been so far. Wherever it is in the world, we find it right for Turkey to send troops as peacekeepers to protect civilians to solve human and political crises that pose a threat to stability and peace. However, in the last six months we have discussed authorising the government to send troops, we must not miss the fact that 24 United Nations Peace Corps soldiers have been killed. The United Nations force is being attacked by separatist terrorists as well as by separatist groups in northern Mali. Mali is at risk of becoming a new Afghanistan. In this regard, before sending troops, the government must analyze well what is going on in Mali. It must assess the risks that our soldier may face there. The most dangerous of all the missions established within the United Nations is MINUSMA (MINUSMA). First, the area is in terms of a very large facial measurement; second, it's not clear who shot who in the region, along with the separatist groups, as well as many jihadi organisations. The developments in the framework of MINUSMA from the beginning of July are important. The Netherlands, which is military in the region, withdraws its helicopters, and other European countries, particularly Germany, are anxious, abstaining from sending additional troops to MINUSMA. Dear friends, I would like to point out that there are interests of imperialism in an ancient French colony, that France still provides part of its uranium needs, that Mali will have rich sources of phosphate, and that the government must evaluate its authority as its own. World peace is very important to us, the protection of civilians is very important, and it is important for Turkey to take a common stance against terrorism that violates people's right to live on earth, but what is so important is the risk that Mehmetçik is facing an attack that he does not deserve in a country where he goes for peace. The life of a soldier is very important to us. I know that all lawmakers here are sensitive, and we're sensitive about our soldiers, Mehmetchik. After this coup attempt, we watched images that bothered all of us, and we saw soldiers who were unaware of the coup and the events that had not been done, who had lost their lives in a coup attempt. For hundreds of years, we have been a people who have been martyred in war, in the Ottoman-Russian War, in the Balkan War, in Yemen, in Tripoli, in Çanakkale War, in the Liberation War. I don't think there are any other people who write so many songs to their soldier. Remember the Yemeni song, my dear friends. We all have other songs that hurt our hearts: I've ruled it out, I've ruled it out. I've been waiting for a baby baby in the mirror crib. I raised it, fed it, drafted it. What's the answer to that? Dear MPs, as we send our sons into the army, we send our soldiers to Central Africa with drums and drums, safe and sound, as we send them to Central Africa. With the government's authority, I think he should make this decision after a thorough assessment of all these issues and risks. Dear friends, I would like to finally invite you all to hit the coup d'états and the enemies of democracy, the Izmir, my electoral district, the city in which democracy and freedom are the most profound and profound. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Let's meet at Gündo Square on Thursday (August 4th) at 7:30 p.m. to say "Republic and Democracy" against the coup. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit02spe0051par0204	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, talks on the Prime Minister's thesis have been completed. I will now submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted to the counter. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0051par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday/8/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. On 29 July 2016, Diyarbakır MP Feleknas Uca and Mardin MP Mr. Ali Atalan (in 2521 rows) were suggested that the presentation of our society's culture and identity of Ezidi (in 2521 rows) should be read in the same bilateral session on 2/8/2016 Tuesday in order to investigate the entire dimensions of the persecution and violent policies they have been subjected to throughout history and to be presented to the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly for the information of the General Assembly. In favor of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, and I will make a pledge to four members of parliament against it. The first speaker in his favour is Ali Atalan, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Atalan.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0052par0018	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party, and I hereby salute the General Assembly. Before we discuss the motion, I condemn the people's free will, the July 15 coup attempt against the Parliament where this will is represented, and I am grateful to all the citizens who have stood up to the coup attempt and lost their lives. In this context, I stress once again that the solution is in democracy, in human rights, in the legal state and in liberal secularism, hoping that the emergence of unity, reconciliation and legalisation will evolve into permanent social peace. In addition, the esteemed MPs are tomorrow (August 3rd) the 2nd anniversary of the genocide against the Shengal Ezidi community. It is known that at least 5,000 people have been slaughtered, and so many of them -- women and children -- have been taken captive and sold in the markets in the most barbaric ways. I honor all the innocent and oppressed who died during this genocide. I want to remind you of two things, perhaps most of us may not know: First of all, the state of the Republic of Turkey still does not formally condemn this genocide that took place in Şengal. The second is that in Diyarbakir, around 2,000 refugees still remain under the protection of the great city there, and unfortunately, they still haven't had refugee status, which they haven't been able to obtain. Dear MPs, due to the extraordinary conditions known in the region and especially the curfew in Nusaybin, I have not been able to participate in the General Assembly and commission work for months, I have not been able to participate in their work. Speaking of which, I'd like to share with you something that I think is important. In my opinion, just as July 15 coup attempt has shown us all the value of democracy, modern, liberal secularism, I believe that going to and from the present state of Nusaybin will certainly help us learn about peace, the value of brotherhood, and perhaps it will be the basis for a new process. Now, to get back to the point: There may be some among us who do not know or know little about the faith of persecution or the faith of Ezday, or those who worship God. So, first, let me just say, briefly, that the belief in the persecution, the belief system, has at least 5,000 years of history, peace with its environment and all other communities outside of it, sternly bans missionary work, accepts everyone by nature and by their identity, prays to the only God they believe in, first to 72 nations, and then to them who pray for good and good and good. The oppressed have not harmed any religious belief group in their own history, yet they have a historical reality that has been subjected to constant massacres and genocides. While the historically known as Mesopotamian geography, the Hanekin (Afrin) was a dominant belief in the geography from the Shengal (Sengal) to Kars and Urmiye (Urgal), unfortunately, its total population has already fallen under a million people, and its total population has now fallen below 500 people in Turkey. Assimilation policies of the Ezidis who lived in Batman, Diyarbakır, Mardin, and Urbania in Turkey have, unfortunately, continued since the Ottoman era, in fact, during the republic; their beliefs have been ignored, their lands have been taken away. Up until 40 years ago, it was estimated that around 80,000 Ezidi (Ezdi) lived in Turkey, and today it fell below 500 (as I said) because they were forced to migrate to different countries of Europe, particularly Germany, because of the assimilationist policies imposed on different identities in the early 1970s. In view of the reasons for forced migration, it appears that fundamentally their beliefs were tried to be destroyed, that their original faith and culture were ignored. As one of the oppressed who had to immigrate in time, my reason for being in this House today is to draw attention to segregating and other policy -- with you, to contribute to the democratization of this country as a whole again. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let me give you a concrete example of myself. Perhaps you know that the religious house in the population papers of the Ezidis is still written either in Islam or in religion. I now have two identities: the identity card of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the birth certificate of the Republic of Turkey. It's empty in my birth certificate, MP I.D. it's accidentally written in Islam. Now, it's not an exception, it's not a singular event; everywhere in our entire society it's written either times the point or the point of Islam. It's actually tragic and it's funny, and it has to be fixed. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, it shows that the faith of the oppressors is being broken down, while the villages and territories are being seized by force, forced to sell the land. Free living conditions for the oppressed are thus completely eliminated. I'm sorry to say that it's been known that some people in the public administration, some village rangers and even some party representatives, who have been given weapons by the state, have taken power from their own position and resources, seized property of the Ezidis, occupied property, and threatened landowners all the time. Yet, all the oppressed living in Europe bring their dead relatives' funerals to their own land without exception and bury them, and that shows how this society is actually bound to its own lands. Many of the Ezidi families, who have lived away from their villages for years, are considering returning to their homes, demanding the necessary legal guarantees at this point. It is the government's duty to protect the culture, faith, land, rights and law of this ancient society that is in danger of extinction. Therefore, the recognition of the faith of Ezidi, the conditions for their worship, the preservation of their holy place, the destruction of the occupied or abandoned villages of Ezidi must be identified. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, that's exactly why the oppressed have decided to emigrate... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the request for the establishment of this parliamentary research commission, which includes a thorough investigation, the removal of their victims, the freedom of their beliefs, and perhaps the goal of creating opportunities to return to their own country.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0053par0030	Thank you, Mr. Atalan. Time's up.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0052par0032	I'm the last...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0054par0033	You can make a positive distinction, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0055par0034	President, it could be positive discrimination.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0056par0035	Let's make it a positive discrimination, losers.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0054par0036	One positive discrimination for the first time.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0057par0037	Here you go. I'll turn your mic on for a minute.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0058par0039	That's exactly why I want you to support the request of this parliamentary research commission, which includes a comprehensive investigation of the reasons for the Mosquitos' migration, the removal of their victims, the goal of living their beliefs freely, and perhaps to create opportunities to return to their own country. At the opening of the General Assembly today, a speaker on behalf of the AKP Group says: "We will be with the victims and the oppressed wherever they are in the world. I'm saying that the Ezidis are one of the world's most victimised and oppressed communities, so come, take a side with them. At the same time, your support would have little to do with protecting Turkey's pluralist structure, providing constitutional protection of all different religions, languages and ethnic groups, creating an opportunity to live together on the basis of equality and citizenship. I thank you, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0059par0043	Thank you, Mr. Atalan.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0060par0044	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0059par0045	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0060par0046	Dear President, thank you. Now, the speaker has pointed out that we're checking our identities, so I'd like to thank him. Now, for example, my I.D. doesn't say blood type, it's in our other friends's. I mean, we're asking you to make it more important for the House to focus on the seriousness of this matter as we organize our identities.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0061par0049	Mr. Tanal, your sentences have been filed. The deputy chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is in charge of the General Assembly's work, but I'm taking note of this issue you're pointing at, and I'm going to pass it on to the Speaker of Parliament, and I'm going to work on it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Markar Eseyan, İstanbul MP against the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Eseyan.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0062par0055	I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group against our beloved nation, the Honorable President and the esteemed MPs, the HDP Group's proposal, and I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I'd like to say a few words about the July 15th invasion and the coup attempt. Whatever we can say for our people, who have resisted this treacherous attempt to invade and overthrow, we can't praise our beloved nation. It's a great honor to be the deputy of such a nation. Once again, I wish God's mercy to our martyrs and to our veterans an immediate cure. If the July 15 coup had been successful, this House would now be closed, the Constitution suspended, thousands of us were taken to unknown places, or God forbid, our country would be on the brink of painful extinction. Thankfully, we survived this great danger in solidarity through our nation. Our people, at the cost of their lives, protected their sovereignty, the Grand Assembly. Our president, our Prime Minister, opposition leaders and all our parties did not allow for invasion with their upright stances. It is so good that today, this House continues its regular service and duties. At this point, I'd like to congratulate all of our MPs, all of our party groups, who ran to Parliament on the night of July 15th, who have kept the Grand Assembly open, who have delivered a powerful message to the coupgers and to the world, once again in person of our Parliament Speaker Ismail Kahraman Bey. We all have to admit that before July 15th, the political language and method did not have the desired decency and the capacity for partnership. On July 15th, the lesson of democracy taught by our people in the squares should be permanently reflected in our Veteran Assembly and thus productive, decent politics should become a tradition. Power and opposition are not enemies of one another; they are legitimate, political actors who are commissioned by our people to work together to build solutions. After July 15th, we must be sure to ask why we did not have the courtesy and cooperation we were able to perform before July 15th. This question must always be in our minds, because if old habits return to old habits, the people will have to answer for it from us. I too am repeating the call of our President and Prime Minister, and I wish to be together in this Sunday's Yenikapi, at the Memorial Meeting of Democracy and Martyrs, to send a message of unity and unity to the world and all threats, and I care very much about that. As for the research motion: You know, our political system and the one that the upper mind is trying to bring down, and this Parliament has passed many revolutionary reform laws in favor of the disadvantaged areas in the last 15 years, especially in favor of the disadvantaged. As our citizens, whose rights of the old mentality are limited as long as the custody mentality in Turkey is reversed and the public will is centrally functioning, the mentality of the state is a service device for the people is also established in our democratic culture. Now, people are not an object to the state; the state exists for the nation, and for it, it works and works for its happiness. At least in this direction, there's been a strong orientation, phase and a revolution of ideas, a revolution of mentality. Dear friends, respected lawmakers, until yesterday, social communities who have had to hide their language, religion, race, religion, religion, or even their name have been liberated, taking their place in public space. This is a great democratic achievement. This change proved only on July 15th, when Turkey was strengthened; its old fear, threatening thesis, has completely collapsed. In the past, for example, you were not both Armenian and Kurdish and religious as well as Alevi as citizens; the written rules, even though the Constitution did not foresee it, were established in this way, and if necessary, antidemocratic practices were disguised as law. In order to exercise citizenship, we would have been asked to deny what we had brought with our birth, assimilate, or if you wanted to protect your identity, then you would have to give up your rights. Almost all citizens, together, had become melancholy figures of Kafka's book, the book of the case. People were forced to live in fear of the translucent state, such as Mr. Kτ, hiding from it, trying to figure out where the coup would come from. Today, however, in Turkey, subdivisions and upper identities are no longer an alternative to each other, the traumatic contradiction has been resolved. Today, in our Veterans Congress, there are representatives of different identities and religions like me. The distinctions, such as the headscarf, the religious regents, have become meaningless, and even five or six years ago, the unpleasant events under this roof have been regarded as unclean acts that are no longer possible to repeat. While we thank everyone who's worked on this process, we have to hand over the lead actor to Mr. President and the EC PARTY. I don't think that delivering this fact contradicts the spirit of July 15th, but if people from all over the squares on July 15th, that determination has also emerged to protect democratic gains of the last 15 years. Again, five or six years ago, the antidemocratic practice that seized the property of minority foundations was no longer possible to re-enact strong objections to the reform of Foundations Law 5737. The main opposition party CHP has settled in a much more positive position on such issues today, and the MHP deserves praise on the same issue. On the other hand, it is necessary to prevent interethnic and religious problems from being mediated. It is the discovery of serious political philosophers, including Habermas, who have abused the purpose of the issue, as was the case in the 19th century when discussing problems through ethnitism or the concept of group rights. The introduction of group rights helps strengthen terrorist organisations and the focus of abuse, and the separatist mentality uses these ethnic problems as a Trojan horse, and democratic demands exploit them for their purposes by saving them in the packaging. It is of great importance to approach issues and problems equal to democratic citizenship and democratic, participating, pluralistic legal state. Building a democratic, pluralistic state structure has shown that the individual and groupal demands of carrying out this construction with the demands of the public have also been met in the most healthy way. This pluralist approach prevents both the abuse of ethnic problems by external forces and the target of troubled ethnicities from damaging social peace. As an Armenian citizen of Turkey, the solution to my problems lies in Turkey's democraticisation and strengthening as a whole. The adoption of this approach is critical. The late Hrant Dink also expressed that the happiness of the Armenians or any other part of the country had passed through the happiness of the entire country. Here, perhaps some questions might come to mind. Is this a holistic approach, a method of delaying problems, dissolving the lower identities in the majority, or a trap? Absolutely not. One nation, one state, one flag, and one country is not a rejection of the lower identities, but a guarantee that we will all live honorably, free and prosperously, as proven on July 15th. The oppressed are indeed one of the ancient Mesopotamian communities that suffered a great deal in history and the last Syrian civil war, paying the price. As a matter of fact, in recent years, tens of thousands of Ezids have sought refuge in Turkey, not in another country, but in Turkey; Turkey has lovingly opened its custodial to everyone, without looking at the religion, language, or religion of anyone who has taken refuge in our country, such as the Crushers. However, no one should claim to be discriminated against in Turkey because they are the oppressors. If the claims of the previous character are concrete, please let him share it with us, because our practice, as it was in Vienna, denies it. It's very different to assess the situation caused by the Syrian civil war, the complexity and the heavy picture of the individual defects, to show the will to resolve, to express that the system is discriminated against, to express that it is systematic discrimination. Intermediating problems in order to create political fault lines only harms the living. Mr. President, I repeat once again that we must avoid the compromise of the 15th of July as the esteemed lawmakers renew our opposition to the motion for research on behalf of the EC PARTI. I salute our beloved people, our Veterans Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0063par0070	Thank you, Mr. Eseyan.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0064par0071	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0063par0072	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0064par0073	In his speech, he said that if what he said was concrete, he could express it here. We'd like to answer our friend, if there's a situation that's not understood, he might be able to provide an explanation for it.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0063par0074	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0064par0075	Even though it's not perceived as a direct taunt, what he said was, it's not like what we're saying is true.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0063par0076	I get it.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0064par0077	He said he needed information to prove it was true. And I demand a two-minute statement to make that clear.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0063par0078	Mr. Demirel, now that you mention it, it's not a taunt. In his opinion, Mr. Eseyan may express his or her group's opinion; he did not make any taunting remarks when expressing that view. However, I can promise Mr. Atalan his place for a moment. Here you go, Mr. Atalan.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0065par0082	Now he's asked for concrete evidence and samples. I'll give you an example of a village of Ezidi, a village known to all in the area of the Ezidis, where Viranşehir was seized by the head of the AKP himself. In addition, I can tell you that a number of Ezidi villages were seized in the same way. If he wants more concrete evidence and proof, we can talk to him, we can make an attempt. We'd appreciate it if he could help us solve the problem.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0063par0083	Thank you, Mr. Atalan. Mr. Atalan has expressed himself. If further details are asked, I can express them to Mr. Eseyan.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0066par0085	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0063par0086	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0066par0087	Mr. President, the friend is talking about impounding a village. It's what we call a village, but it's homes, property, deeds. Of course, it's against the law, the law, the morality, the conscience to have such a seizure.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0063par0088	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0066par0089	I demand that this situation be investigated from here. I don't think that's the case. Turkey is a state of law; therefore, there are authorities to investigate it, let it be.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0063par0090	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0067par0091	Mr. President, for the record, Well, if that's the case, let's all agree to this research commission and we'll all look into it together.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0063par0093	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. It's in the transcripts. Now in favour of the proposal, the second and third speaker on the proposal, Selina Doğan, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0068par0100	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the People's Democratic Party to submit a motion for research. I salute you all. For centuries, I am happy to have made a promise in Parliament about the persecution of the ancient peoples of the Middle East, who have suffered countless massacres and persecutions because of their beliefs. First of all, I'd like to express it. Also, I'm happy to work with my two Ezidi friends in this Parliament, and I think it contributes to our multicultural life, our multicultural political environment. The Crushers, who have existed in Anatolia for hundreds of years, are unfortunately one of the people we know the least about, the people we know the least about. Yet, and yet, unfortunately, the vast majority of our society believes that its name comes from Yezid bin Deputys, who are called Emevi caliph and who are not to be said to be loved. There are still unpleasant reproaches about the faiths of the oppressed, and the oppressed are despised and rejected. Perhaps our beloved Pakrat Estukyan speaks at the entrance of an Ezidi song performed by the most beautiful band of Brother Turks. That's what I want to say to the oppressed, if you'll excuse me: ▪ They turn to the sun three times a day, praying. Anyone who wants, children, young, old, sheik, order, everyone gets in front of the sun and tells the sun what's going through it. Maybe that's the nicest prayer the human race has ever said. Perhaps the best songs, the most beautiful poems came from these prayers. Perhaps these prayers are the basis of all the myths of Mesopotamia. I don't want to repeat it. I'd like to mention the content of the motion, if I may. Whenever we talk about the problems of a nation that lives in this land, and its numbers are shrinking over time, do they want the land immediately? Are they asking for compensation? Sadly, the questions are coming up. If we see this Parliament as a place of discussion and resolution of all problems, we cannot discuss these problems here without prejudice. For example, we can start by discussing these things. For many years, the oppressed have been under great pressure since the Ottoman Empire. More religious beliefs of the oppressed than of other non-Muslim nations and their identity are being written in the religious house, as our fellow MP has just expressed by our friend, the Muslim (Muslim) or the non-Muslim (Muslim). Today we can do something under the roof of this Parliament for the Crushers whose numbers are getting smaller, whose lands have been swept away by other villagers, whose cultural heritage has been looted. In addition to the oppressed, it is already time for Parliament to step in, for all minorities living in Turkey. Yeah, every minority group is dealing with different kinds of problems, but there's one thing they all have in common, a hate crime. Look, I'd like to share with you the results of a recent investigation. As part of the Social Media and Minorities Project, financed by the European Union and the Foreign Ministry, the study of the research company (KONDA) shows the extent of the hatred speech. 56 per cent of those involved in the study with non-Muslim minority groups have expressed that they are nervous or hesitated to comment while sharing and comment on social media, often unable to share their true thoughts. 23% stated that they did not share or comment, just to watch. In this case, those who say they share freely are only 21 per cent of the participants. 15 per cent of the participants have been insulted because of their sharing, 14 per cent have been insulted, 8 per cent have stated that they have been subjected to blasphemy and 6 per cent have been threatened, so there are no minority members who have not been almost insulted in social media. We've submitted a research proposal, including this growing hate speech on social media, as a party, and hopefully that'll get to Parliament's agenda as soon as possible. So, how can people be so reckless? Legal regulations are important to prevent this, of course, but we need a major mental revolution to prevent it. First of all, we politicians have to watch our language. The people who run the community, excuse me, Armenian. Think about what a politician would say. Again, to identify a terrorist organization, aren't they called Zarathust? Isn't it a humiliation of faith? Isn't that a hate speech on its own, lawmakers? On 3 August 2014, thousands of Ezidi took refuge in our country because of the massacre that began with the Shengal occupation of ISIS. Some of them went to Europe on the grounds that there was no safety in Turkey. There are still about 1,500 Ezidi in the camps in our country. Around 50,000 non-Muslim immigrants live throughout Turkey. All of these have fled ISIS and taken refuge in our country. In our party, I've expressed before in my presentation here, we've established an immigration and immigration research commission. As a member of that commission, I had the opportunity to visit them personally, and I took a close interest in their problems, and we presented them to you in the book Between Borders, which we prepared in detail. To make a brief point here, the threat of ISIS on non-Muslim refugees, who fled ISIS to Turkey, continues here, unfortunately. Almost all of them are still afraid of ISIS, feeling insecure about the fact that ISIS is acting freely in Turkey. In addition to their problems as refugees, they also suffer from identity crisis. Stop worshipping, stop christening your children, even in cities where they don't exist to bury their dead. Even the fear of ISIS in these people continues in Turkey is a big problem. Look, there was a coup attempt in our country the week before. I hereby curse this enterprise once again. After this attempt, a major operation began, and it turned out to be a very obvious intelligence weakness. Now there is debate as to how to repair this weakness of intelligence. I honestly don't know how to make this weakness go away, but I do know that we need to move this discussion back to July 15th. Since the June 7th elections, our country has suffered mass killings that have killed hundreds of people. Here, if intelligence weakness is to be discussed, these massacres must begin. A big question mark of how these massacres were done even after it was done, let alone how they could not be prevented. As for the oppressed again, do we hear enough of the screams of the Ezidis who have been subjected to 72 massacres throughout history, and of the 73, who are still living? The persecutions were clearly described by the United Nations as genocide. Last month's U.N. report stated that ISIS was forced to take the Ezidis to Syria after its occupation on 3 August 2014, using women as sex slaves and trying to erase the identity of Ezidi. According to UN data, ISIS still has 3,200 oppressed women and girls. Again, in the same way, ISIS is trying to eliminate all faith groups except its own belief. Today, nearly there is no Christian presence in Syria. Hundreds of thousands of years of human history are being destroyed. Surely there are things we can do as Parliament to prevent these crimes against humanity from being punished. Just as we can condemn the massacre here in Bosnia as all parties, if we can curse it, we must be able to curse all crimes against humanity, especially the massacres committed by ISIS against the oppressors. I hereby curse once again the massacres of ISIS and other jihadist groups. After the July 15 coup attempt, we're going through the days when different parts of society meet to achieve democracy, where political tensions are reduced. It's an environment we all miss, really. For this environment to continue, different social groups must first feel secure in this country. In order to do so, the problems of the social areas, which we refer to as a minority, must be put on the table immediately and resolved. It will also be a powerful message to the world. In this regard, let us restore the dignity that these ancient people deserve, and not see too much of a commission to identify the problems that these ancient people face and to produce solution proposals. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0069par0125	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. The last speaker on the proposal is Halis Dalklıc, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Dalkulic.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0070par0129	We are the Honorable President and Veterans of our Veterans Congress, and I salute the High Assembly. And on the 15th of July, I condemn those who attempted the lowest, most despicable coup attempt this land has ever seen, and the vilest attempt to invade, and I pray for the mercy of God to our fallen martyrs who died that day, and to our veterans, I pray for immediate healing. I truly congratulate our nation, all the parties and all the nations over the parties that came down to the streets that day, with the consciousness of being truly a nation, regardless of the difference of any political party that showed great resistance that day. I praise God for being a member of such a people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] From that day on, all the squares of Turkey have democratic watches; the young, women, children, gentlemen of our nation hold a democracy watch until morning, not leaving the squares, but waiting in a sacred manner, like their watch at the Mount of Archers. I salute every member of our great nation that stands this watch from here, God bless them all. I sincerely congratulate the Turkish nation, who showed not only Turkey what it is to be a nation, to love the flag, to love the country, to love the land, but to all the nations in the world and to have a school in it. Dear lawmakers, it is now decided that these seizures will be crowned by the Yenikapi rally on August 7th at the invitation of our President General General. Hopefully, we want to crown this brotherhood climate, the nation climate that was captured in Turkey. With the leaders of all political parties, hopefully, there will be a rally where, regardless of the political party's difference, only Turkish flags will be waved and only the slogan will be shouted out. I'd like to renew our President's invitation from here and from the legislature. As for the motion, I read the HDP group proposal. They made some really good points, friends who made the group proposal. Although I agree with a lot of them, there are places I don't agree with. The Ottoman period, where we disagree, has been talked about assimilation so far. In the culture of our ancestors, we need to define assimilation. In our profession, in our civilization, there is no such thing as assimilation. Even during the Ottoman Empire, you can't see, you can't see, you can't see, you can't see, you can't see, you can't see, you can't see assimilation anywhere. Really, imagine that great map of Ottoman jihan, what trail are there, where have we assimilated it? (APPLAUSE) We have ruled for six hundred years with justice to protect everyone's religion, religion, religion, wealth, and as his descendants, now we look back on the persecution of the oppressed, indeed, there is no one who has not been persecuted in this geography. In this Geography, under siege of imperialism, both the Kurds and the Turks and the Turks and the Arabs and the Shias are systematically investigated, and everyone is persecuted in turn, and they agree. But the most important thing for us to fight is to fight this siege of imperialism. Look, we're dealing with all sorts of countermeasures brought to our territory by the siege of imperialism. Today, we have to stand up to the PYD, which is in the siege of imperialism that we must oppose and to oppose a project, we have to fight the PKK, we have to fight the PKK together; we have to fight ISIS, we have to fight the DEAS, we have to fight them together so that people, the religious minorities, the races, all of them can live together as brothers. This is where we're going to fight, this is where we have to look. So, look, for the Crushers in Syria, who fled the persecution in Iraq, Turkey opened its lap as usual. When we're helping, sir, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't, it's Kurd, it's Turkish, it's Ezidi, it's Christian, it's Muslim. The most important sign of this is that you go to the AFAD camps now, where there are 3,000 in Mardin, and 15,000 in Midyat, and 15,000 Ezidi living and hosting them. They took refuge in Turkey again. It's a good thing we're having them. Wherever there is injustice, wherever there is injustice, there is its people, and they are in the past, and We will continue to take care of them. For that reason, I've already been sworn in against the motion, the esteemed MPs. I don't need the motion, but I need something more important than the motion. Look, in this time of our country's difficult times, we're going through a period where the siege is on all the motions to fight the forces that are challenging the region, and Turkey is now on the basis of a compromise, where the distinction is clear now, and the segregation is as white as siya, and the patriots and patriots are no longer separated, and there should be no more gray tones in between. There's no gray tone for him. Here, both the Kurds and the Turks and the Muslims and the Arabs and the Shias, the people of this region, each of the colors of this region, have to wake up altogether, to unite their struggle. In this regard, hopefully, I have full faith that every member of parliament under the roof of this great House will provide this process, that we will conduct it together. As I complete my words in this manner, I salute our great coven again. These days will come and go. These people have been through a very difficult time, and we're going to get through these days, but we're going to remember that these days, it's going to be very clear to us who does what, who stops where, and who fights what. That's why I really care about the struggle our Congress has put together since July 15th. I see every member of every political party, every one of them, every one of them, every one of them, every one of them, every one of them, every one of them. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0071par0142	Thank you, Mr. Dalkulic.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0072par0143	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0071par0144	I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0072par0146	Okay, I give up. I was going to give you a warning before the vote, but...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0071par0147	Okay, thank you. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday/8/2016 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The 409-tributed Law Proposal 409, 321, 380, 193, 1951, 352, 189, again, in this section, 407, 406, 208, 208, 181, 251, 361, 378, 248, 229, 142, 169, 392, 380, 180, 190, 195, 382, 189, 197, 149, 49, 45, 375, 345, 345, 345, 245, 245, 245, 1625, 169, 321, 392, 165, 168, 145, 245, 1645, 166, 166, 166, 166, 164, 164, 166, 145, 164, 166, 145, 166, 164, 166, 166, 166, 164, 164, 166, 166, 166, 166, 166, 164, 164, 16, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 166, 164, 164, 164, 164, 16, 16, 164, 164, 164, 164, 4, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 4, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 4, 16, 16, 164, 164, 4, 4, 4, 164, 4, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 164, 4, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 164, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 164, 164, 4, 164, 164, I'm going to make a pledge to the members of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal to speak in favor and against it. The first speaker, Yilmaz Bronze, is Bart's MP. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0073par0162	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the AK PARTY group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. The EC PARTI group proposal is a group proposal to discuss our Parliament's working schedule and what legislation and proposals will be discussed throughout August. But before we move on to the group's proposal, I, once again, bless and thank the martyrs of July 15th, and wish our veterans a speedy recovery. The July 15th struggle is indeed a struggle for democracy that has passed on to both Turkish political history and world history. Our nation has given the world a very important message in this struggle. This message is this: when it comes to democracy, when it comes to national will, when it comes to the rule of law, it shows the world how to take care of it, with this struggle, with this heroism. Of course, there are important messages from this struggle that we will take as Parliament, which we will take as rulers of the country: to receive these messages in the best possible way, and to take the necessary measures to prevent our country from encountering such dark attempts, such hostile, treacherous coup attempts. In this sense, the extraordinary state-of-the-art decision and the decision-making of the law are still under way; on the legal ground, measures are being taken to ensure that Turkey will not be interrupted every ten years after that. Our nation's message is that by landing in the squares, standing at the expense of the cannon, the rifle, the tank, yes, I don't mean this country, this flag, you'll find me. The main message, however, is to send important messages to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at the point of organizing the legal ground and administrative structure needed to avoid a coup attempt in this country from now on. To resist this coup, re-organise military-serious relations. Our nation says take the necessary measures to ensure that the education system, both soldiers and civil education system will be freed from the coup d'etat mentality. Our nation wants the soldiers who take over the defence of the country to be connected to political authority. Our nation says, after this, make legal and administrative arrangements to ensure that our country does not have such dark nights and our future is not to be blackened. Now, these are the procedures. There are some criticisms, of course, within the democratic system, but the procedure is entirely in accordance with the law; it is in accordance with international law; it is in accordance with our national legislation and our Constitution; because the 15th Article of our Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights also state how to limit fundamental rights and freedoms in extraordinary situations, even how to be stopped. The exceptions here are one, right of life, the ban on torture, the principle of legality in crime and punishment, and there are four exceptions to these exceptions: freedom of thought and freedom of expression. ▪ These four exceptions can be limited, it says. The decrees under the law are carried out entirely within this framework, and the European Convention on Human Rights, which we have signed fully, and the message given by our nation, in the best possible way, continue to take legal and administrative measures that are necessary to ensure that our democracy will not be interrupted every decade. Of course, our nation's most important expectation is that the members of the terrorist organization, who carried out these attacks in this hostile attempt, who dropped bombs on the nation's hearts in the Turkish National Assembly, will receive the punishment they deserve. And in that sense, the most thorough investigations continue, and the independent judiciary will punish these coupgers, these traitors, these enemies of our country, and no one will have any doubt about it. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTI group proposal, envisions the adoption of Law Proposal 409, whose talks have been completed in the Plan and Budget Commission, and that it will begin its talks today at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 48 hours. What's wrong with this bill? There are important arrangements that our nation expects of us, important arrangements to improve the investment climate, to further strengthen the decision made by entrepreneurs at the investment point. These arrangements will be of great benefit if they come to life at once, even in this environment. In addition, some important international contracts also stand out in our group proposal. The proposal has regulations for boosting investments, for boosting development, especially for the business world, for the tradesman's investment decisions. The private sector's debt to the public is being paid in installments. There are arrangements to resolve conflicts through peace. The issues involved in the tax study are envisioned to be resolved without going to trial. The transition to registered economies is envisioned. According to Law 6552, a new right is being given to debtors who are composing public debt, but who are unable to pay under the conditions provided by the law, and are being able to restructure their debt. Of course, there are tax fines here, administrative fines, customs fines, insurance premiums, and a lot of the public will be restructured by this proposal. Of course, there's also the issue of bringing some assets into the national economy. The money, gold, foreign currency, security and other capital markets abroad are being introduced into the national economy by bringing them to Turkey and allowing them to save their assets freely. That was in the previous draft, there were arguments. New regulations have been made in the Commission, and criticisms are being taken into consideration and are coming back to us. I'd like to say that there's no cause for concern here either. There's no concern about these beings, especially the money, the drugs, the laundering of criminal revenues, anything like that. What is it? The 7th article of the proposal is clear: Tax examination, investigation and prosecution will not be conducted because it comes from abroad for no other reason. If there's another reason, if it's because of human trafficking, if it's because of drugs, money laundering, if there's evidence of that, if there's a reason, then the criminal investigation is part of his prosecution. So there's no cause for concern. I say I'm in favor of the group proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0074par0175	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. Free Special, Manisa MP against the Justice and Development Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0075par0179	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The ruling party's group proposal is essentially a proposal for parliament's work throughout August. We have no objection to the Parliament's work during August, which had experienced the July 15 coup attempt and had all defended the parliamentary democracy against this coup attempt, but the most important thing to do when the House is open is to be discussed here, without delay, that the laws of the law in its agenda, which it has taken on its agenda, in which we have declared its limitations on the first day. Clearly, by taking advantage of the State of Emergency Law, the provisions issued by using the State of Emergency have been excluded from the mandate defined by the Constitution, making arrangements outside of the scope of the State of Emergency, and other regulations that will have an effect on the State of Emergency. There are some of the right ones, there are the wrong ones, but there is no way we can accept a political ingratitude to the Parliament -- in the lightest terms -- by smuggling it out of the control of the House, to the coup, to the resistance of all groups without exception, which we are proud and proud of. There are some regulations, yes, but it is contrary to the Constitution to the State of Emergency. We must all work here until the morning, if the coupgers should be punished, do whatever it takes to get them removed from all the institutions and institutions of the state... but, let's put the will of the House to do this in law, but let the Parliament stay in a place where we say, let's redesign the state from scratch, not a proper understanding, not a healthy understanding. For 14 years, the MIT, which has already worked under the current President, is required to be attached to the presidency. He's already worked for the President for 14 years as Prime Minister of the period. We said Suruç had a weakness of intelligence; the Minister objected; we said there was a weakness of intelligence in the October 10 attack; we looked into our eyes; 700 of our children were martyrs; 300 civilians lost their lives in the bombings, 300 civilians were not weak. It was said that on the night of the coup, unfortunately, the coup was learned from the brother-in-law. If he was doing the MIT rights that depend on a person, and he was going to do it after that, then why is such an arrangement necessary, and how can such a thing be demanded? Therefore, it is clear that a person's mind and a group of Parliaments ruled by him have brought the country into the coup process, and that he cannot protect himself or us or the President from this coup attempt. So the common mind is needed, therefore, not to provide custody over the House, but to protect you from the plurality of the House in the face of the situation you face, to protect you, not just the mind, but the very mind that keeps us out of error. It's theoretically possible to describe this by referring to the Constitution, referring to the Civil Charter, in the past, I can tell you the mistakes you've made, not by a pluralist, but by a majority understanding, but today I'm going to choose another way. Look, in a decree of law, almost without hearing the right or breaking the wrong, all the military personnel of the world were thrown out of the army in one night, as many civil servants as the world has been laid off. I personally believe that maybe 90-95 percent of them are the right decisions and the rights to be made, and I hope the margin of error is at a minimum, but when you try to prove people's innocence with a KHK, what happens when you stop them from defending themselves? Our Manisa MPs were in the hall, and we had an Ahmetli Sub-Committee. Ahmetli Governor was not pleased with the ruling party's Ahmetli organization and the mayor's office. He was a statesman, he refused to work under the agency, they were frictioning, but when I looked at his services, I was proud of him as the opposition party MP. Do you know how you'll remember him? In Ahmedli, the students are in the sun, in the shadow of protocol, and they put the students in protocol, and they put the protocol into the sun. The mayor of that Kaymama ruling party, the managers, they were annoyed because he didn't do what he said, and they were reacting that day. He tried every way to get rid of a call made by a trustee, who was made a fethullahist, terminated on July 17th. He shot himself with his bodyguard's gun on July 20th. Gentlemen, I'm about to distribute it to the groups -- he left a farewell letter. This is about the night of July 15th in the letter of farewell; he tells the governor that he is looking for the governor, saying he must resist the coup, that the governor has said that he is on duty; that he has called Salihli district, that he has taken over; that he has appointed the full equipment police, that if the coupgers come, you will fight. We must all stand together against this blow. I said. Izmir was in Gördes Kaymakam. And then I called the governor of Alaşehir that night and I said, "What are you doing?" He said that they had taken the gear and would resist to the end. Nice to meet you, brother. I said, "I'm in the same boat." I'll give you a wife here. Five agricultural workers were killed in a car accident in Alaşehir. I went to Alaşehir Kaymakın, and I said, "Did you have this meeting?" I said, "Abi, that's what happened." All the trustees here are alive, on duty, you can call one by one and ask them if they called you that night and said that. We also resist the coup by the mayor of Salihli, who is from the city of MHP, who is also the mayor of the DP, who says that he knows my co-ed in the lakehead; he says that he once knew my co-owner in the lake; and that he looked for him when he was relaxed in the morning, and that he had called for him.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0076par0188	He's doing the governor's job, what does the governor do?
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0075par0189	Then he says: "I called the people from WhatsApp to the street; and we all stood together in Ahmedli, in Salihli, together, but they took me away because they called me a parallelist." There are a lot of sad things when you read the whole thing. For example, he says to his daughter: I wanted to be a doctor, you got high marks, do whatever you want. Girl, just because your father's dead doesn't mean you have to do what I want you to do. He tells, he tells, he finally tells his wife that I was very uncomfortable with the old Turkey before 2002, thank God Recep Tayyip Erdogan arrived, and I worked for him. He says to me that the people who stole this black spot... say, "I'm sorry I didn't leave you so much. Do not offend our commander-in-chief, nor offend our government; these things happen in extraordinary times, and all things are mixed together. May God be with you. He says, "He will shoot himself." And the body of my king-in-law went to Samsun; and they did not perform the prayer, according to the fat of the dianetite. His family passed his coffin around, didn't take him to the burial ground, to the cemetery, to the cemetery, and buried him in the garden of their village. I'm telling you this because we're all going to read this, and we're all going to take this as an example: judgment is a right, and execution without judgment is a crime of humanity. We're all very vindictive, very angry. Believe me, I've asked all of you for 10 times as much as I've wanted this organization to go down, and I've wanted it for decades, but what happens if we make one mistake like this? We made one. The central commander of the Fethullah organization, who had previously fought against the Fethullah organization, is now tried by Ergenekon -- another one called the GERP.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0077par0194	Mr. Special, I'll turn on your microphone, one moment, please...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0075par0195	Thank you. If we're going to put up a bail... the commander of Erzincan, who stood behind Ilhan Cihaner (Ilhan Cihaner) while being taken away by the prosecutor's office... has stood behind Ergenekon 2 (later joined) Ergenekon 2 (later joined)... Central Commander Murat Yilmaz -- I just told Mr. Minister -- has been discharged from the army in one night as well as has been unable to become a general because of Ergenekon for six years. There are so many mistakes, so many mistakes that in the process, everyone put their hands on their conscience. We're all very ambitious, we're all very angry, but we all have this country, this state, this nation, in those times you call it law. Judgement is a right, and execution without judgment is a crime of humanity. If you punish millions in the form of execution without a trial, the only thing you can do is bring back this overlord, and your work is worthless. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0078par0200	Thank you, Mr. Special. I was deeply moved by the letter of the suicide counselor read by Mr. Special. I ask for God's mercy, and my condolences to his relatives, and to his family. In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, Bkent Turan, Çanakkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0079par0210	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group in favor of the AK PARTY group proposal. And I salute you all. I'd like to begin by condemning and expressing my regrets today as the July 15th vile coup attempt on the agenda of all of our representatives. I want to say that we are not understanding, we are seeking justice, and we will prevent this organization from harming this community until the end. And to make sure there's no such mistakes, we'll all work together. Dear friends, so far in our country, unfortunately, there have been almost systematic coup attempts. After a coup once in a decade, our society has always gone backwards in the economy, politics, other areas, our democracy has been denied, but no coup has found so much macus in the conscience of society, no coup intended to be so evil, so vile, so brutally designed. If we say to a foreign country, an enemy country -- God forbid -- take over Turkey, bomb 10 places. Greek soldiers who came to Poland did not plan to bomb the Assembly; they did not intend to bomb the Bosphorus Bridge, nor the poor, nor the machine guns, nor the helicopters. Unfortunately, they saw a need for young people to spray bullets on them that would not even be used in battle, which could not be fired on. But there was one thing they couldn't count on: until now, when Adnan Menderes was executed, the elders who watched behind the curtain and cried behind the curtain, in the 1980 coup, hang from the left. We don't want our fathers, our elders, who have been watching from behind the curtain, who have seen our young expelled from school on February 28th, for the first time, the people stood up with their leader, together with all the political parties. We don't want to see any more executions in this country, the 1980 coup style, the executions, the February 28th-style exiles, and the very large masses, and we don't want to see them together. Although they had a tank, a rifle, they could not calculate that we had a heart of faith, so to speak. The entire community has shown great sensitivity to this, and as you can see, the world has left the history of politics, the history of democracy of the world, a memory that will be written in gold letters. Other than that, as I said, with different reactions from every part of this community, with a few people who may have done something wrong, the whole community took over the matter. Every political party, every institution, every NGO has made the ultimate effort to block the issue from the beginning. I'm the Deputy of Canakkale. You know, we have Greek brothers living in Gökceada, we have citizens; we won't have a fair yesterday, even at the time of 250 martyrs every year. They said, "We're not going to have a fair," and they called it off. I mean, we live in this country together. All parts of this country, all sects, all races, were very proud to be united in the love of the land, in the love of the flag, in the sense of self-control, in the sense of democracy. From our point of view, July 15 was a matter of national sovereignty, such as the fight of the national sovereignty on March 18th, which would be the nation's own, like May 19, April 23, October 29, who would own this country; whether it was going to be international forces, or whether it was going to be the nation's own. Many thousands of praises have come to us again to be proud to be a member of this community. All of our people, for example, have shown similar reflexes in society, every area, every area, every area of it, every area of it, every single one of them, from our Kazan farmers who set fire to Ankara, who tried to block the plane with smoke, so that they wouldn't bomb the Parliament in one day -- so that the planes wouldn't get up and bomb its annual product -- to our president. We were in Çanakkale at the end of the week, in Edirne, in different counties; everywhere says the same thing; this nation owns this country. We may have political quarrels, we may have polemics, but we'll settle our accounts in the chest, we have no business with guns. I'm thinking it's a standing ovation, a hat-lifting style. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the group proposal of our AK PARTY group, as you know, the Parliament organises the working hours, schedules and agendas. According to this, as all of you have followed closely again last week, we will begin the 409-line Law Proposal, which passed through our Plan and Budget Commission -- as soon as the group accepts our proposal. It's a proposal for a law that meets the expectations of the vast majority of our society, perhaps in the last 15 or 20 days, bringing up the issues that we've had to delay with the obvious coup process, and which all communities have been curiously awaiting. When we look at what this law proposal contains, there are particularly chapters on the configuration of tax and tax fines, and there are chapters on the structure of traffic tickets; there are suggestions on the structure of penalties based on military, election and the form of the Population Law. Like RTÜK, there is restructuring of the sentences imposed by institutions such as YURTKUR; restructuring of customs, municipalities, private administrations. There are some important regulations, such as restructuring social security premiums. It contains substances that, in effect, concern every part of our society. Dear friends, we'd like to plan these things a lot sooner, to conclude them much faster, but what you all know is that the problem from the night of July 15th brought us to this day. In short, I hope that these configurations will be legalized immediately, partially met the expectations of our society. I'd like to say that we'll discuss this law this week, and we'll go back to our constituency zones, and we'll continue our shifts in the squares. Again, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0080par0223	Thank you, Mr. Turan. İdris Baluken, Diyarbakır MP against the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0081par0227	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, once again, I would like to express our compassion and gratitude for those who lost their lives, that we condemned the July 15 coup attempt here. Sure, it's time to talk about certain things. After the July 15 coup attempt, there were expectations of President Erdogan and AKP ruling in the name of democracy and social peace throughout Turkey, taking certain lessons and implementing some work quickly, but unfortunately, we regret to point out that all these expectations have been completely nullified by Erdogan and the AKP. The society, which is looking forward to democracy, has been answered in 81 provinces with a state of emergency. It is not enough, the Parliament has been completely shut down, and a working system leading to the usual operational presidential system has been opened in accordance with the law-ordered decrees. The environments, which are expecting social peace, have been given messages of political polarisation by the exclusion of a party that received 6 million votes, to Kurds, Alevis, left, socialist communities, to the democrats who met around the HDP. Parliament is currently discussing a work proposal brought by the AKP, but we should regret to inform you that after the coup attempt, parliament has been reduced to a approval and a notary authority. No law bill discussed in this Parliament is in any way touching the issues that will resolve the current situation in which the peoples of Turkey are present. Look, the bag bill they brought in this week includes what we call money laundering, a highly ill-conceived provision that they call the existential peace. But right now, there are enormous concerns and concerns throughout the entire community about how to get out of this chaos and instability in all of 79 million. Unfortunately, not a single five-minute shift from the House, aimed at resolving this chaos and instability. You know, he's talking about the second time that the House will become a veteran, but I'm afraid that if it continues like this, we'll be faced with a practice that ends in the hands of the Veterans, the Parliament, the AKP, Erdogan. So, once again, we want to warn the ruling party's group about these mistakes here. So far, you've always run the House with a bag of laws, and now you've discovered the ordinance of the law, and we're dealing with a common sense of Parliament that's been removed from the public agenda by the bag of laws. Of course, it's important to avoid the coup, of course, every political party has shown clear stances on this issue, but right now, Turkey needs to visualize its current situation, each of us. Right now, we need to summarize the current picture to see if there is a democracy system in Turkey, if there is an institutional democratic understanding. Turkey is still ruled by the Constitution of September 12th, and it is an example that even the Constitution of the coup is suspended by the ruling party. All 81 counties have state of emergency practices, and we're dealing with a legislature practice that's been bypassed by the law. In a manner of speaking, we are far from discussing the real problems of our people in the process, except for a photograph that has made the House clear to the public in order to save the situation. Now, Turkey faces a disbanded state device structure. There are two paths here, either with the spirit of 1920, and with the spirit of the 1921 Constitution that followed it, we will re-enact a power struggle by exclusing the Kurds, Alevis, left socialists, conservative parts, all other peoples and beliefs that have faith outside of Islam, or we will re-establish a singular understanding, just as it was done in 1924. I regret to inform you that the first signs are not good. The exclusion of a party that has received 6 million votes, a party that represents 20 million people in its current potential, and that the CHP, along with the MHP, is the issues that we are concerned about in our view of predicting the state's reconstruction, the restoration of the state around a nationalist front. I say with concrete data that we are the first to propose the summit of political leaders after the coup. However, after this proposal, the President did not call the leaders of the AKP, CHP and CHP to the co-chairs of HDP. As part of new constitutional studies, the Prime Minister did not include HDP (HDP) in the traffic he had made with CHP and CHP. In fact, when the President gave up cases against him, he made it clear to all 79 million of whom he was in a sense of exclusion and polarization to exclude HDP. I don't have to say much about the new-door rally. There is no way that the HDP will participate in a rally that will be turned into a show of Erdogan and the AKP, but it is very important that the CHP and the CHP's official invitation go away and HDP be kept out of the process. Now, are you going to try to form three political parties by excluding the new constitution from HDP? How will you do it? How are you going to pretend that 6 million votes don't exist? Do you think that the whole of Turkey will not question the public, or do you think that's enough for the approval of the CHP and the CHP as you go through the operational presidential system with the mini-constitutional package you've brought in? You're in the wrong, you're in the wrong. We don't know what you're meeting with other leaders behind closed doors of the palace, but in public, we've been saying that you've been going the wrong way for a year, you've been activating coup mechanics, you've been taking will from civilian initiative to military initiative, you've been sailing into dangerous waters to turn this country into a fire site, and I want to express our warnings from here today. I'm particularly critical of opposition parties: Come on, Velev Erdogan and the AKP may have guided this way in this error, but I want to express the opposition's participation as a source of great concern and concern. Notice, if they soon bind you to the palace with a decree of law, if they link the CHP and the CHP to the palace, then it will be too late. Dear friends, this is not the way it's going. Apart from democracy, the state of law, social peace and human rights, there are no conditions, no conditions, for exiting this coup mechanics. Today, Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım asks the question we've been expressing for a long time, saying, "What are the tanks doing in the city centers?" Let's say good morning to you, Prime Minister. We've been singing from here for a year. Didn't it ever bother you that the tanks were in the middle of the city if they weren't the cities? If you're off the agenda, off the country's agenda, you can call the former Prime Minister. If he finds out what political parties are saying about it, what they're doing, he won't have to ask that question. We asked more questions. We asked him, "What are the SAS commandos doing in the middle of the neighborhood with special military elements? What are the S.A.S.A.T. commandos doing in Sur, without the sea?" We asked him. Those juntas who don't know what tanks are for, unfortunately, Turkey has demonstrated their habit of feeding them caviar in public. So, in short, we're looking at a new fork in the road. Either we build a democratic republic or unfortunately...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0082par0240	Finish your words, Mr. Baluken, and I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0081par0241	Either by building a democratic republic together, we will free our people from the whirlpool of these coups, from this great shame, or we will all go quickly towards a great disaster by insisting on the wrongs that have so far stuck in the politics of polarization and conflict. We proposed to Parliament on this issue that a democratic republic building commission should be established in the process of the new construction process, which will cover all social segments of the state's new restoration process. This commission, which will include equal members of four political parties, will be able to achieve a study that any social community is not excluded from, and each social community sees itself when they look at the state. But if we don't make it, I think we're going to continue to argue with worse results in the impact vortex. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0082par0244	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0083par0245	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0082par0246	I'd like you to vote for the Justice and Development Group...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0083par0247	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0082par0248	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0083par0249	During his speech, Mr. Baluken made a number of taunts, such as binding our party's name on the nationalist front, in accordance with the decree of the law.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0082par0250	Yes, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] In accordance with Article 69, I give you my word for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0083par0255	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The July 15 coup attempt is a concept that is missing from defining the big, bad event that happened. This isn't a coup attempt. In fact, calling this an attempt at violence makes the issue somewhat less important. I'd like to draw attention to that, too. This, in fact, is an attempt to start a civil war in Turkey and to divide and divide Turkey under the image of a coup attempt. Especially since we've seen a number of facts and a number of other claims have come to life since July 15th, unfortunately, in the face of this disaster, all political groups, their country, their country, their homeland, must have a reflex. So, as the National Movement Party, we have carried out this opposition in a way that is unconjunctively non-conjunctional, and we continue in this stance. In these extraordinary circumstances, we have also voted positive for the state of emergency by action, since these special or other terror elements need to be cleaned from within Turkey, but this is a reflex. If you're referring to this as a front, it's a national front, and because it's a nationalist front, we don't have any problems because we're concerned about our country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, we are showing this attitude, but we are making sure that we have the necessary warnings regarding the judicial decrees, which are based on extraordinary circumstances. In the basic institutional structures of the state...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0084par0259	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0083par0260	...we're also saying that it's not to be tampered with by these laws under the law. Furthermore, the miscalculation, of course, will return from Baghdad. I hope to put an end to my words here for the time being, to express our views on different occasions, and to all of you, I give my regards.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0084par0263	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0085par0264	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0084par0265	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0085par0266	Mr. Idris Baluken, during his speech, you will not be bound to the palace by decree by saying "Muslim parties" and referring to our party...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0084par0267	Here you go, Mr. Special. And I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0085par0270	Mr. President, when I heard Mr. Baluken, I was truly amazed. He's talking about the support of other opposition parties in the state of emergency. Our party said that it was not right to implement the state of emergency, that instead, we would work in a full understanding of the actions of the Parliament, the punishment of those involved in this coup attempt, and the removal of these from all institutions, but that two elements of the State of Emergency were extremely ill-conceived, and that one of them, with the authority to issue a decree of the legislature, was turned over to the legislature of Parliament. In addition, we opposed this period of non-judgment and voted against it. Our attitude here was very clear. It's hard to believe how Mr. Baluken interpreted it. Well, maybe he's saying that he means that an invitation by Mr. President would not be invited to his own parties. In that case, Mr. President-General personally spoke to Mr. Prime Minister -- reminding him that the four parties signed a joint statement against this coup -- reminding him of the importance of the reflection of this unity and integrity in parliament on the street, saying that it was not right that your party was not invited, and Mr. Prime Minister said that it would discuss it. This is a very clear statement of the Republican People's Party's position. We've said over and over again that we didn't find it right, no matter who acted like there were three parties, not four after the coup attempt, because of the signature you signed there in the fight against the coup, let's say that we didn't find it right. But, please, take your word for it, and make up for this misunderstanding and the injustice you've done to our group. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0086par0274	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0087par0276	Mr. President, Mr. Special has accused me of supporting CHP's extraordinary situation. I didn't use a sentence like that, so I guess he didn't get a chance to listen.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0086par0277	Here you go. I give you my word under Article 69, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0087par0280	Thank you, Mr. President. I guess he couldn't listen because he spoke during my private conversation. I did not say anything, nor did I set my criticism above it. I have brought my heavy criticism to HDP's exclusion of the will of 6 million, as the main opposition party does not present the political stance that should be shown, and I also insist on these severe criticisms. What do you mean, our general president would've been better off if he'd been there? I mean, it's not like we're in a position to be in a place that's kind enough to beg for someone to accept us. However, your president must share with the public the current information on why HDP has not been involved in the process. I watched it on the TV show last night, and I passed it on to the President, but I can't share what he told me about what the HDP should not be. He says, "Ooh, and then he keeps talking like nothing happened." Could such an attitude be the main opposition party? What are you hiding from the Turkish community? You're ignoring the HDP base too? You have to answer all of this. See, the same is true of the Constitution. Yesterday, Prime Minister and other political party leaders stressed that constitutional talks between the three political parties will be held. We didn't hear any objections from the CHP. If that's the approach, of course we'll go out here and critically criticize CHP and report you to the community. Of course, you have to tell us and the people of Turkey what was said behind closed doors of the palace. Plus, we've never seen you in a picture of the main opposition. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0088par0284	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0089par0285	I'll just repeat his last sentence: "The main opposition is worthy of...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0088par0286	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0089par0289	Mr. President, I don't intend to extend too much, and it's not the right job, but the easiest thing is for an opposition party to oppose the opposition. I don't understand what you're trying to do with the country's problems, all this pain, all this trouble, but let's be very clear: our president has made his position clear about you not being here, and we all say it in every environment, but what do you expect from the main opposition? Or should I say I'm not here and leave the meeting? Well, then, for three years when we called it a Parliament-oriented solution -- and how did you get into the corner today -- not just in the government and not in the Parliament, but in some palaces, such as the Dolmabahçe Palace, for example, sir -- you went to Saraa and discussed it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] That day, together with the Justice and Development Party, you will not be thinking of the country's main opposition party, which won 14 million votes against your 6 million, and then you will go to the palace... Our party's position on the palace is clear. We said we'd only go to a place where we had objections as well as an overfunded grant, an unexplainable cost, and as of where it was made, if it was a matter of a great country. And since we haven't seen a country bigger than the traitorous coup attempt on July 15th, we'll give it to our conscience, our constituents. Tell the public about your conversation in Dolmabahçe.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit03spe0088par0293	Thank you, Mr. Special. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0088par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I submit to your votes the Justice and Development Party Group, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly [[2/1167) I respectfully submit that our original Law Proposal, under Article 37, should be taken directly into consideration.]] [[19/7/2016]] Şenal Sarıhan, Ankara MP will speak as the bidder on the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0090par0018	Dear President, I'd like to brief you on my proposal for the law, first of all, dear fellow clerks, fellow writers, fellow lawmakers, fellow lawmakers. Actually, it's been read, but what's our offer? As you all know, from last June to the last July 15th, Turkey has faced intense terrorist activities. Many of our people have been harmed, lost their lives, because they exist in a society, because they are members of the community, even though they have nothing to do with the acts of terrorism that have arisen in any way, even though they have nothing to do with it. In all of these cases -- in detail today -- friends from other opposition parties and the ruling party -- of course the state is responsible. In charge of what? Because the state has a duty to protect their right to live against citizens. On the one hand the responsibility of the state -- which is a positive responsibility -- on the one hand the activists have to exercise the right to sue those who have lost their relatives in the face of the responsibility of those who have committed terrorism. During the use of this right, many of you have testified that, for example, the last time, 103 people -- not the last time, of course -- were lost -- let's think about the Gar incident, and let's think about the recent coup attempt that nearly 300 people lost their lives, this is a terrorist act. People who have lost their lives in these acts of terrorism will want to use their rights -- that's their natural right -- to appeal to either the judicial or administrative judiciary. In both areas, whether it's judicial or administrative, there are terrible spending expenses that our friends, who have sued, can remember. It's our law proposal that these expenses should not be collected from victims of terrorism in any way. Therefore, the effective investigation, which is guaranteed in both international contracts and in the 40th article of our Constitution, is virtually deprived of the opportunity to seek effective rights. In order to eliminate this deprivation, in fact, to avoid punishing them twice, they need to create conditions where they can freely and effectively use their right to the cause of their loss of any part of the victim's life or the loss of any part of theirs. In this sense, we recommend an additional clause to Article 13 of the Law of Harçes, and an addition to Article 14 to Article 14 with a single sentence. The situation in Article 14 is this: According to Article 14, if privates and privates were to take any legal action, if they had been harmed and had to seek rights because of their duties. There are certain values in Article 13; there are demands on those values -- for example, the amount of alimony for guardianship; I do not want to buy time with them -- there is an allowance exemption for them. Our proposal is that all cases filed by those who have been harmed by acts of terror will be seen without allowance. Unfortunately, there was no way to reach an agreement with our AKP friends, the group's vice presidents. Their claim is that the treasure will face a difficult situation. However, they can be found. In the event of winning cases, there are a number of fees already paid. The important thing is to protect people from the terror activities of citizens. Today we can't understand that friends who say, "Let's act together, let's work together, we can't be neutral in the face of such an innocent proposal of the law. Sadly, this is far from a positive sign for the future. For your information, I invite you to be responsible. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0091par0025	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu will speak as a deputy on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0092par0029	Mr. President, in our July 15th incident, I begin by saluting the people who saved democracy and again entrusted it to us politicians. Dear lawmakers, this proposal envisions that the victims of terrorism, as our friend has just described, will not receive tuition in the cases of the relatives of the deceased. Not just because of terrorism, but other weak communities. For example, subcontractors. In the case of those who died in business accidents, the fees must not be taken. Why shouldn't he be offended? Because that's one of the basic duties of the government, my dear friends. The government ensures the safety of all people. There's a terrorist environment, business accidents, which are fundamentally responsible in places like this. It's all happening because he can't control it, because he can't put good politics into it. There's a weakness for security. One of the basic tasks of the state is to create economic opportunities for all citizens to live in prosperity, creating such an environment, the matter of bread. And the third is freedom. Turkey's people will allow the equal citizens of the Republic of Turkey to live free with all their differences. It's the government's basic duty. These things happen around here because there are setbacks, and these people are going to go to court, but they're faced with mortars that go beyond them, and justice can't happen. Why are we citizens of this state? Why are we paying taxes? Why are we going to the army? One of your most basic tasks is justice. Justice must be lifted. It shouldn't be difficult for justice to stand up like this. My dear friends, of course everyone needs justice, law, but what they need most is the weakest part of society. There's a saying, you know. He steals the rich car from the mountain, and he's surprised on the poor plain. What does that mean? So, who's poor? The one we call the poor, the one we call the orphan, the republic. This bill aims to compensate for the errors and shortcomings in this situation, but unfortunately, the work of our Parliament makes such a thing impossible to accept, the proposals the MPs have made; in fact, that's the charter. In fact, my dear friends, the people who saved us, gave us back democracy, there are very serious problems with this democracy. That's why democracy needs to be deepened, to raise the state of law. My dear friends, what is democracy as a result? It's called national will. So the will of a citizen somehow comes to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, reflects and becomes a decision here. There are many walls, such as the Law of Law of Laws, which prevent citizens' preferences and demands from coming to Parliament on different occasions, such as the Law of Political Parties, Elections. So the citizens' demands, their preferences, their demands... unfortunately, they keep bumping into these walls. Same thing with the House Department. The habits of parliament, traditions, the way we do politics prevent citizens' demands from becoming lawmakers here, and the proposals made by lawmakers cannot be legalized in any way. The proposals made by lawmakers one by one, and the proposals from opposition parties, they never come to a decision. This isn't a democracy, guys. Of course, the majority will rule, and we've said it many times. That's one of the requirements of democracy. But it's not just the openness of the House, my dear friends, that the council is the basis of this compromise these days, when he talks from the top to the man on the street, from the President to the man on the street. The words of the lawmakers who brought the people's preferences here with their power in parliament must be accepted, in fact, the words of the lawmakers who have brought them here, that this Assembly should be the meaning of democracy. We ask you to support this offer, but there is no such image. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0093par0041	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. Mr. Bachelorson, you've decided in advance. How did you know it wasn't like that?
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0092par0043	I'm a psychiatrist, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0093par0044	Okay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal has brought up a matter. The MP stated on his ID cards that the blood group did not take part in some MPs' identity cards, while some of them did not, and he made a demand for it to be corrected. According to my information from the Parliamentary Ministry of Services, the application is carried out as follows: MP ID cards are organised on the basis of information in the MP's birth certificate. There's a blood type on the birth certificate. The blood type of lawmakers with blood type written in the blood type is also transferred to the MP's identity card, which cannot be transferred because of those who have not written it. Of course, this could get out of hand. But in the form of demand, our lawmakers, who do not have blood type on their MP ID cards, are my blood type. If they make a request, they will be able to arrange a new identity card. I'm bringing this to your attention.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0094par0051	In the House of Religion, when our Regent Ali Atalan was empty, he wrote in his birth certificate, "Islam" (Islam)...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0093par0052	Now, speaking in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Mr. Ali Atalan, our Mardin MP has raised a problem. Although he did not write anything in my identity, the MP said on my identity card that my religion was Islam. Yes, in the face of this question, we really need to review this application of the Parliamentary Service Chairman. I will examine the condition of Mr. Ali Atalan. Okay, thank you. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question proposals or other audit issues and move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will begin talks with Justice and Development Commission Report, which will be ranked on the 1st ranked Justice and Development Party's Deputy President Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş and Isparta MP Sajya Sadi Bilç. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 409 rows. Members of parliament, this proposal will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the proposal will be discussed in sections after all negotiations have been completed and passed on to the articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Now, I will meet your demands on the entire proposal. First, I'll promise the political party groups. The political party group will first speak on behalf of the National Party for Action Group by Consolidated MP Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0095par0068	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Movements on behalf of the entire Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the currently under discussion 409 rows. On this occasion, I salute you all. This arrangement is a formal proposal of law, but its contents have been publicly announced by the Prime Minister and ministers, presented and evaluated by the Finance Minister, as was the government's bill in the Commission talks. There is no regulatory impact analysis, including the necessary information and assessments of this arrangement, which appears to have been given in such a way to overstep regulations on drafting and regulations. Some information we have insisted on in the Plan and Budget Commission to make a healthy analysis and contribute to the arrangement has not been given by the Finance Minister. The fiscal size of previous applications, the income expected of this arrangement, and the amount of disbursement of public revenues, the development of tax revenues over the years, the distribution of sectoral and taxpayers in accordance with their qualifications. Even worse, there have been many questions about the health of the picture of tax revenues distributed in the Commission. Mr. Finance Minister has made his concerns very clear. Thus, it has also been revealed that the government and the Finance Ministry have not done a number-based analysis on this law proposal. Despite the Minister of Finance's promise to bring the issue of asset peace into a separate arrangement, its scope has been further expanded. If you recall, the provision for the peace of assets was adopted on July 25, 2016, in accordance with the interim Article 2 of the draft bill under which certain Laws shall be changed in order to improve the Investment Environment, which was adopted on July 25, 2016, and the General Assembly has promised that our objections will be removed from the bill and will be held in a separate arrangement, but the commitment has not been made. It is also compressed among the substances that the majority of society is waiting for, and which we have previously brought up as the National Movement Party, and which we have contributed and contributed to during the talks of this proposal, allowing black money to be laundered amongst the substances that envisioned the construction of tax, insurance and other public debt. The application of the AKP to place questionable and inconvenient special arrangements among the substances that the AKP has often applied for, including positive issues has also shown itself in this proposal. As we have always stressed, this arrangement allows and allows the laundering of assets that constitute crime, illegitimate, even from activities against Turkey and humanity to be obtained. Due to the process of bringing these assets to Turkey and moving from this process, there is no guarantee that there will be no investigation, investigation, or prosecution. So banks and customs will not report, even if it is black money, or even if it is, the MASAK will not consider it; the arrangement envisions it. Abroad assets that can be brought into other people's names or accountables, they can be saved freely, they can be taken abroad when asked, they won't be subject to any taxes, so black, money, at zero cost, will be in and out of our country in no time. On the other hand, isn't it just an invitation to invite black money to ensure that Article 282, titled laundering the assets of the Turkish Penal Code? If there's no black money, no dirty money, no bad money, what's that guarantee for? If the goal, as they say, is to bring it into the national economy, why are these beings allowed in and out of our country? Who will be able to bring money in whose name? Where did the need to bring wealth from someone else come from? Who demands such an arrangement? These are the unexplainable questions that we can't get answers to. Dear lawmakers, this proposal also organises the restructuring of some public interest, especially tax and insurance premiums. While the government cannot give a healthy number, there is a restructuring of public interest over $300 billion. During the AKP period, the six-alarm arrangement for the restructuring of public receivables is now under way. In particular, this practice has been sustained by the decisions of the Council of Ministers, which extended the laws and deadlines that were passed to this side in 2008. A new configuration is being made in 2014, before the end of the configuration with Law 6552. It seems that the government has become known as the government, the tax peace, the peace of existence, but has not made peace. The AKP acknowledges that it is essentially not ruling Turkey well. Of course, the AKP is responsible for the failure of our citizens to pay their debt. The government's income structure has been corrupted by pardon arrangements for taxes and other creditors. Frequent pardon laws have undermined confidence in the tax system, causing a constant public expectation of forgiveness. Every pardon comes to the agenda, and the statement that this pardon is a necessity, that it is necessary to turn to a clean page, that it is needed to be pardoned for the last time, that there will now be effective audits, that tax reform will be carried out quickly. We need to express that such forgiveness arrangements have offended our citizens who have paid their debt on time and regularly. Those who pay their taxes regularly think that after each tax pardon decision, did we rightly make a mistake? (For years we have paid our taxes on time, if necessary, using interest or selling real estate and paying taxes.) Are we fools? They react greatly. In the AKP's power, tax evasions, those who don't pay their taxes on time always win, those who pay their taxes regularly are punished, and those who don't pay their taxes are rewarded. Forgiveness in taxes is the greatest injustice to taxpayers who pay their taxes on time. These practices undermine the sense of justice in society and reduce voluntary fitness in taxes. Those who pay their taxes regularly expect a tax reduction. Such an arrangement will relieve them psychologically and affect their tendency to pay taxes in a positive way. Our motion as MPs for the National Movement Party has been rejected by the government and the AKP Group for reducing the taxes of the taxpayers who paid their taxes on time three years in a row. The government, which has done with great enthusiasm to forgive tax evaders, plastic invoices, money laundering arrangements, is now giving a firm stance on tax reductions to honest taxpayers, who are now a social demand that must be done. However, Mr. Finance Minister has promised in the Commission, but we know that the former finance ministers of the AKP have said so, but the result is obvious. We'll also make a motion here as the National Movement Party Group to reduce the tax rates of taxpayers who pay their taxes three years in a row by five points in a row. Our wish is for this motion to be unanimous. Dear lawmakers, the lack of taxes in Turkey and the unfair distribution in taxes have become chronic. Since there has been no healthy tax reform so far, tax justice has been left on the back of the tax burden, the tradesman, the worker, the officer, the minimum wager, the small and fixed income because there has been no tax justice and no tax collection from large sections. The workers are burdened with injustice and heavy tax. Employees' wages and monthly allowances have decreased from month to month in the year due to tax cuts. The tax rate is rising due to the tax rate of even minimum wage, and the amount of income you receive during the year is reduced. As a matter of fact, he will receive a 20% tax rate two months from now and will receive 1.230 lira in the last three months of the year. We kept our promise when Mr. Finance Minister was quite ready to answer our questions on this matter, and we made the minimum wage $1,300 at the beginning of 2016. The Minister of Finance doesn't care that minimum wage will be reduced by 70 liras starting in October.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0096par0081	Come on, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0095par0082	The government, who has not been able to collect enough taxes from the bosses, from the glass houses, from the lenders, and from the runners, has also deleted some of their tax debts under the name of settlement, has set their eyes on employees, minimum wage. You said the AKP had a promise to put taxes on their rant revenues. The 64th government's Action Plan will be given a share of the public's value increase as a result of the changes in the investment plan. The date of March 21 was given. What happened? Of course, they haven't, and they won't. Because that area is the protection area of the AKP, its own neighborhood. Everyone knows who's in the middle of Rant's business, who's getting hit by zoning arrangements, of course, and so does the government. Mr. Minister of Finance, 70 lira from minimum wage and nothing to do with the tardiers carrying the hammock. Don't you have a guilty conscience about cutting taxes for 70 lira more than minimum wage?
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0096par0084	Come on, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0095par0085	This injustice must be corrected immediately, the minimum wage must be completely tax-free, and the tax-load of workers must be lightened. Dear lawmakers, our tradesman and farmer are also oppressed under heavy tax and premium burdens. The monthly insurance premium this year has been increased by 29 per cent, while the farmer's monthly insurance premium has been increased by 35 per cent. The AKP has not given 100 lira bonus support to employers to our shop and to our farmer to lighten its premium burden. The tradesmen and farmers who failed to pay their current premiums were granted free access to public health services by the end of 2015, with the decision of the Council of Ministers of Ministers on September 29, 2015, which was extended by six months, with decisions dated 14 December 2015 and 21 June 2016. These Council of Ministers decisions clearly show the situation in which our tradesman and farmer have been reduced. The tax and premium burden of the merchants and farmers must be lightened, and 100 lira bonus benefits should also be given to the merchants and farmers. Farmers and shopkeepers who regularly pay their premiums should also receive a five-point bonus discount for employers. The news of the festival on 4 July 2016 included a five-point discount for those who paid their premiums on time. It hasn't been edited yet. Mr. Prime Minister said to the merchants, farmers and chiefs, fulfill your duty and take advantage of this right. But the government has not yet fulfilled its commitment. Many who have worked as a tradesman or a farmer in the past have been unable to account for their work in service, even though there are taxpayment, room registrations, and insurance records. The deadlines should be counted as the service of the shopkeepers and farmers, without prior registration and registration. Apprentices and internships should also be counted to the pension service. In practice, even time spent without work or insurance can be borrowed, while the period of training based on a practical study is limited to short-term insurance arms, injustice, inequality, and so on. In addition to resolving the victim's injury, to contribute to the incentive of vocational education, apprentices and internships should be counted as services, loans should be given for past services, and those times should be based on the starting date of insurance. The tradesmen and farmers are the lowest pensioners in the country. The AKP has promised that the pension between pensioners will compensate for its injustice, but it has not. With the law presented as an attitude adjustment, only a partial improvement was made for former SEC pensioners before 2000, others were ignored. The victimization of retired people in the area has never been considered. Inequality and injustice between pensions must be resolved. Retirers have been fighting for bank promotion for eight years. Officers get eight years, workers get eight years, lawmakers get eight years, pensioners don't get it. Former Prime Minister Davutoglu said that pensioners will start receiving promotions at the Turkish Retirement Association's General Assembly meeting on October 21, 2015, and the ministers have made constant promising statements, but still can't receive them. The AKP government couldn't even pull it off. Dear lawmakers, our movers, especially truckers, are going back every day, unable to pay their insurance premiums and taxes, many of whom have had their final struggles. In order to transport, the fees of the required authority documents are very high. There are also many problems with the application. The movers aren't burdened, they're burdened. Most of the trucks found in our country have been blocked. Employees also try to rotate their wheels using a size 10 or burnt oil. An immediate improvement must be made to this section. While our marines can buy UV fuel, our land - road movers cannot afford it. This practice, unfortunately, protects the merchant against the tradesman. The mover's trade should also be given tax-free fuel. As the National Movement Party, we also argue that the entire driver's shop, especially the taxi driver, trucker, bus driver, bus driver, is allowed to renovate their vehicles at once without buying VAT and OTV. The previous Prime Minister, Mr. Davutoglu, inspired by this promise by the National Movement Party, gave the news to the driver's shop on May 12, 2015 if you renewed your bus by the end of 2016. He also said that he would reduce the price of cameras and GPRS to the vehicles, that he would solve van drivers' problems with motor vehicle tax, that he would add public buses definition to the law. It's been 15 months, but nothing's been done, and the driver's shop has been deceived by the promise of election. This time, present Prime Minister Yıldırım, if you are to renew your vehicle in the news of the Fourth of July festival, you will renew it without an OTV, which will be used by taxi, full of taxis, buses, trucks, and trucks. This is huge, the automotive and transport industry will come alive. As the vehicle gets older, costs go up; repairs, maintenance costs go up, business costs go up; our citizen will get rid of it, his vehicle will be as new as cyclops, and he will get cheaper. Both the manufacturer and the manufacturer will win, and eventually Turkey will win. What happened to those words? Did you lie on our promises to the driver's shop? What kind of power are you? Don't the prime ministers make promises? This promise must be fulfilled immediately. Our driver's shop demands that the S.T.V. discount be supported by scraping incentives. In our country, more than 500,000 vehicles are still salvageable. Given the fact that iron and steel scrapings are a very important entry and that a significant portion of the junk needs can be met through imports, the very positive results of the implementation of the OTV discount and the junk incentive together will come with significant contributions to the economy. The application will allow the tradesman to continue their commercial lives more comfortable and productively, and will also allow the use of new models that have less and safer damage to the environment than the means that have ended his economic life. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0097par0097	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. On behalf of political party groups, İstanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0098par0101	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, a tax pardon again, as it is known in society, and a peace of existence again. The average is tax forgiveness every two and a half, three years, and there's peace of existence every few years. Why? Because we don't have a fair tax system, we don't have tax ethics, we don't have tax-paying habits, we've developed a moral about using and not paying taxes as a fund. The latest tax pardon came out in 2014. Some businesses still haven't finished their payments, and it hasn't been 18 months since the tax pardon came out. As I said, because we can't provide tax morality, because we don't have a tax culture and because the government doesn't have a carrot and a stick to pay taxes on income, people pay the tax because our government and tax system can't ask where did you get it? In the sense of maths, people prefer not to pay it every time they're forced to finance it, because I'm a person from within the trade. Why? In two years, every two and a half years, our Minister of Finance grants a tax pardon. So instead of using a bank loan with 16 per cent, 18 per cent, our Finance Minister grants us a tax pardon with 4 per cent. He says, "He uses it for his needs, but he doesn't pay taxes." Because when there's a four-percent configuration, there's 18 months in installments, 24 months in installments, and everyone thinks it's a tax that they shouldn't pay first when they're forced to. In our tax system, you know, we can't do a tax on profit, unfortunately, and we don't have a tax system on income through wealth. Look, when the AKP came to power, 38 per cent of the wealth belonged to one percent of the Turkish community, so 1 per cent of the richest had 38 per cent of the wealth. Because of this wonderful tax system, today, 55 percent of the wealth in 2016 belongs to one percent of the society of Turkey because our Finance Minister cannot ask where did you find it? Everyone raises their wealth by pleasure, pays taxes and only indirect taxes. The vast majority of our tax system is from indirect taxes. So, when we go to a gas station and we have a low-income person with a modest car, and he fills up his tank, he pays the same tax, and the richest man is an industrialist with billions of dollars, and a merchant pays the same tax. But when it comes to a fair tax system, I'm afraid we don't get that justice. Our solution here is, of course, about tax pardons, so that they don't happen again, now that this law is going to come out, it looks like we're going through a difficult time, there's expectations in society, but the question is, it's going to come out fair. Look, our tardiness interest is 16 percent, but the government's financing interest, so the debt interest of the treasure is 10%. So the state goes to the market for every $1 tax they can't get, and borrows it for 10 percent, but the rate set by the IRS in the balance of the assets, or in the tax pardon, is 4%, and it's restructuring it through the UFE (Producer Price Index). So by 16 percent, those who use a bank loan to pay taxes are reduced to fools, and those who don't pay taxes are subjected to four percent and 18 months of restructuring using it as financing. This is a great injustice and injustice to those who pay their taxes properly and regularly. In this sense, at least, that 4% of the land needs to be moved to the point of treasure interest, to compensate for the amount of resources and the number we lost. Look, the number we're building is $90 billion for the tax figure, which has $45 billion interest. We're going to get $67 billion for the SGK, 18 billion for the delay interest. So in total, we're talking about an interest of about 60 billion TL. Our government gives up about two thirds of this, perhaps even more. So he's giving up 40 billion TL if it's all structured. It's $40 billion, guys. Because of the interest we've taken at 10% interest, in the last year, it's only $16 billion, so if we could get these resources as taxes, our treasure would be less in debt, and we would have paid less than $16 billion in interest. Of course, regardless of that, we punish those who pay regular taxes, and somehow we try to spend this peace of existence, this tax forgiveness. What's the solution? The solution is to make it clear that tax pardons will never happen again. See, some countries place a tax pardon on their constitutions because the tax is sacred and everyone must pay taxes according to their income. Well, what about the people who broke in? There's a solution to this too. Some countries have applications, tax ombudsman. If a business is under pressure -- it's a preservative structure -- tax ombudsman -- goes to ombudsman's office, I've been paying my taxes regularly for 20 years, I've gone into financial difficulties, it says, "Construct my tax." It says, "Ombudsmanship, if it's convinced, it's taxing." In that sense, it is highly wrong to grant a tax pardon without separating good intentions from bad intentions, and our suggestion is that once again there will be no tax forgiveness, and only in the framework of this tax ombudsmanity of those who are in a tight spot. Another issue in the bag law is a mathematic enhancement. The Matrah increase has been implemented before, and it has been said that you have reported a $10 tax on these years, so make it $11, and I will not examine you. This is indeed an immoral offer, my friends. A state can't say that I don't study you. And between 2011 and 15 years, the income tax, VAT, will say that for the corporate tax: you paid $10, give me $11, I won't do any research on you in these four years. We told Mr. Secretary: Well, let's say that we look at businesses that have reported a very low income income or damage. A company worth 200,000 euros reported damage, and a $2 billion turnover reported damage. You're saying to both of them, "Give me $10,000, and I won't study you." So, scale difference? One will launder the $200,000 turnover at $10,000, and one will launder a billion-dollar turnover at $10,000! Where's the justice in that? We told them to make sure there was a scale condition in that respect -- of course they are -- but make sure you give me another dollar, and I won't study it. The immoral proposals need to be immediately waived. Another matter, peace of existence. I don't know what kind of presence peace this is anymore. Yes, our citizens have resources abroad. If we don't get to the source of why this is happening, we'll always bring out the peace of existence, and it always fails. Why do people take their assets out? See, in many developing countries or in countries that have not institutionalized their democracy, in countries that have not become a legal state, those who have been enriched -- they are already unfairly rich -- they take their taxed or untaxed wealth out of the country. Where do they take him? The legal system is institutionalized, democracy institutionalized, where they feel their assets will be safe. Why would they take it off? To reduce the risk of the country. If we can't institutionalize our law state, if we can't establish our inner peace, and if our country doesn't shine like today, if it's seen as a third-world country looking here from Earth, neither does the stranger bring in the capital here, nor does the citizens of our country bring their wealth out here. We don't need any laws from that angle. I will not examine you, my friend. Whatever you bring, however you come, it will not be solved. The solution is to institutionalize our democracy, to establish our inner peace, to show that each section has their safety and their property security. We're doing a lot of bad practices these days. Look, I'll give you an example: an intubation baby center! So that's what we have to deal with these days? A baby's center was seized by a decree of law, where embryos, sperms, and eggs were seized. A million-dollar asset was confiscated, taken away, left with a skewered Etphale. Who owns it? An Armenian, a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, an Armenian. Is that so? We're the state of law, you've got security, you've got property security. We're going to call our own citizens and people who are thinking about investing here? In that sense, I say it's the law of peace that makes both citizens and foreigners feel safe to show that there's no risk in our country, that the law works. What's the solution? It's a financial milla. I've suggested many times to Mr. Minister -- the other Minister -- that he's gone, the other Minister -- to create a financial mill, to make everyone declare their wealth at their true value, and then to say, "Where did you get the proceeds, the proceeds of the state?" But it can't be politicalized and financed by a party, it can make autonomous finance systems, as in Western democracies. You know, in America, the finance system is autonomous, autonomous in many European democracies. They go from political power to political authority, go and study it. Without waiting for it to say, they go from which political party to which party they are from, without looking at which side they are from, and they show their bat for every penny that's missing, and people pay their taxes properly because they're afraid of it, because it's tax ethics. Look, we're giving up 40 billion TL, we're giving up interest. Our friend just told me, and I brought it up, and on October 1st, the minimum wage goes down to 1,230 TL, my friends. You promised $1,300, and on October 1st, the minimum wage drops to $1,230. Our minimum wage for only three months is going to be $70 short, but, you know, for minimum wage, $70 is an important number. Believe me, they're spending $1, $1 -- they don't know much -- $1 is important to them, and they're going to have $210 in three months at $70. How much does this cost? I've told the Minister of Finance over and over again to change it, to fix it. It's only $1 billion. I mean, if the government gave up this tax... because on October 1st, the minimum wage comes up one level. We're going to raise that first level and give up this $1 billion, all $1 billion. So in exchange for the $40 billion you've given the capital, you'll give up only $1 billion for minimum wage -- that will be taken out of the pocket of millions of people. One in forty. I'm afraid I'm ashamed to be a member of a Parliament that gives $40 billion to the capital, which gives $1 billion to the minimum wage. We'll have motions for that. In this regard, I would say we should make sure that this minimum wage does not fall below your promise of $1,300. Dear friends, I'd like to talk a little bit about the coup attempt for the last five or six minutes and how we got there. I curse the July 15 coup attempt, but in Turkey, 2016, in the world of 2016, I say we should all be ashamed to live in a country that still has a coup threat, a coup attempt. How did we get to July 15th? Look, we're judging July 15th. We say that on that day, the coupgers went out on the street and pointed a gun at our people. Of course, we'll judge that day, but if we don't look at how we got there, if we don't look at how coup entrepreneurs create the climate of impact, unfortunately, this coup attempt has not been punished, and we are always pregnant with new coup attemptes. In 2007, you know, there was a memo, which was a coup attempt. We always said that the coup was not faced in 2007. There was no face-to-face with that relic. There was no incident on the way to the due date in 2007. If it had been taken care of on the way to the 2007 memorial, maybe this blow wouldn't have happened. What happened in 2007 when he went to the memorial? Father Santoro was murdered, Malatya Summit Press was raided, State raids, Hrant Dink was massacred. If you only had looked at Hrant Dink's murder -- because we all were there. We said, "This murder can't fit in the parallel." We said, "This murder can't fit in Ergenekon." We said that because everyone was there -- this coup attempt and entrepreneurs would be prisoners in this sense, and everyone who was involved in the Ergenekons and Dink murder would be prisoners. For ten years, we've been saying that in the video we have, there are police officers there. We know from the phone records that that's where the signals are coming from. We've been saying that for ten years. First, they tried to tender the Ergenekonists for Dink's murder; the Guardians, these, these... Yeah, they were there, they made the building blocks for the murder. Then they tried to tender it to the Fethullahists, just the work of the parallel. It was said to be the work of some Fethullah defendants. Now we see that the gendarmes are there, and we know that the governor of the period was there -- the governor of the return, Muammar Güler -- and the surgeon was there. They didn't stop this murder, even though they all knew it. And if only Dink's murder had been handled, after the 2007 coup, after his confession and after Abdullah Gul became President, maybe we wouldn't have had today. Now, we've had a new blow. In this cloud of dust, we have to look at how we got into the July 15 coup attempt. How was this climate created in the July 15 coup attempt? How was the peace climate, the peace process eliminated? When we looked at the attacks against HDP after the peace process was eliminated, when we looked at the bombing of our buildings, when we looked at the bombing of our meetings, the coup was coming. Look, a lot of AKP's friends came to me and said, "Ya, you're going to fight, there's going to be a coup." How did you know? So I said, "You don't have to be a genius to know that. If you only knew the political history of Turkey, if you knew some political history, if you had some judgment, if you looked at what we had before, you'd see that the impact was booming. I'm afraid these coups will continue as long as we don't look at the preparation of the coups. Look, last year on July 22nd, two policemen were killed in Ceylanpınar. We cursed and said, "Let the perpetrators of this be found." Mr. Davutoglu, the senior Prime Minister, said: "There is a radio message from Ankara, they gave me his intel, I told all planes to get up and bomb it. Because this order came from Kandil. They had confirmed it. We said, "This is a dirty murder, so let's investigate it. It's been over a year since the war began. We lost 800 security guards, the official record, thousands of our people, and we were about to lose our democracy. Friends, as long as we don't look at that period, as long as we don't look at what happened on July 22nd, as long as we don't look at the killings of those cops, the perpetrators, the soldiers you gave the plaque to indictees of Roboski's murder, as long as we don't look at them, as long as we don't look at what happened on July 22nd, as long as we don't look at what happened to them, those who called them today are being purged, you're looking at the Ergenekon indicts of Balyoz, the suspects indictees in 2007. Will they be our helpers? Look, I'm not saying they're all criminals. But there was no fair trial, not against the coup against Erbakan, the deceased of the 2007 period, nor against September 12, 1980. Let's take a look at the roads that lead to the July 15 coup. How was this society tried to turn against each other, how was the climate of impact created? As long as we don't look at these things, the GERPs will go, others will come, they'll create the impact dynamics again. We know very well that these indictees, called Ergenekoncu, today -- who are going on television today -- can do much more effectively with the times of the coup, the dynamics of the coup, the dynamics of turning society against each other. In that sense, all we have to do is restructure the state with a decentralized structure. Mr. President made a statement today, and we're doing it to speed up the functioning of the State of Emergency. He said, "We're restructuring the state -- to disable the Parliament." Where are we, my friends, where is Congress in this restructuring? Someone in the palace is restructuring the state, reasserting some power relations, there are no representatives of the nation in those power relationships. No good can come to any of us from such reconstruction, my friends. From that point on, we need to get the House back online as soon as possible. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0099par0128	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. On top of the proposal on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bkent Kuşoglu, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0100par0132	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. On behalf of the Republican People's Party, I'm going to try to explain my views on the 409 Law Proposal at this hour. You know, we're talking about the 6th pardon of a power, the 6th pardon of a government, the 6th pardon of a government -- that's what we're talking about -- that's what we're talking about every two years now -- that's the 6th pardon of a government -- that's what we're talking about, the 6th pardon. If there's a pardon every two years, it means you can't run this business, my dear friends. The power, unfortunately, is not particularly capable of managing the public financial order. This is a comprehensive fiscal amnesty arrangement; it's very comprehensive, you see. If there's a comprehensive fiscal amnesty arrangement, what would that be? It's brought in as a bill by the government. Concerning institutions, public institutions are asked, their views are taken, written down, the opinions of relevant occupational institutions are taken, the opinions of the public are formed, and then they come. This came as an offer, with the signature of a group of vice presidents and the President of the Plan and Budget Commission; there are no relevant public institutions; there are no opinions, and there are no occupational institutions, and here we are -- we are working on the Commission, and now -- there are a bunch of wrong, incomplete issues, trying to add them. It was wrong of him to come as an offer, and we criticised it in the Commission, and now we criticize it; it's wrong, it's not a procedure. The Ministry of Finance, which is the ministry of public opinion on a matter that concerns so much, should have done the necessary work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security on social security, the Council of Ministers should have done the necessary work, then bring it as a bill, unfortunately, not so. Dear friends, we're doing an exceptional job, we're getting a pardon. Now, I'm afraid the bidders aren't here, but I'm asking them, how many people are involved in this pardon, how many businesses are involved, how many citizens are involved? How many people are going to benefit from that? How many people are in debt, who have a tax debt to the Treasury, or who owe a premium to the SGK, who owe up to $50,000, how many jobs do we have? Between 50 and 100,000 people who owe, between 100,000 and 500,000 people who owe more than a million dollars? Could not an offer be made according to these, or could it be arranged? According to differences between the regions -- things are different in Diyarbakir, different in Istanbul, different in Ankara, different in various regions -- in which areas in particular are these debtors piled up, in which areas of our business is more in debt, small businesses or major businesses in those areas or sectors -- do we know what these loans are, what sectors are more in debt to the public, do we know, do the bidders know them? No, he doesn't. But I don't blame them, the bidders don't, but Mr. Secretary is sitting here on behalf of the government, and he doesn't know because I don't blame the bidders for him. And even if the Minister didn't know or knew about it, he didn't tell us. Both the Finance Ministry and our tax administration, unfortunately, are one of the least transparent tax administrations in the world. Recently, such a study was conducted in OECD, and unfortunately, there is such a situation, which is that the Finance Ministry is not transparent, it is not accountable; it is a ministry that constantly hesitates, building walls in the statement. When I say the Ministry of Finance, I'll tell you about the Honorable Secretary. We thought, Mr. Secretary, when he removed the Accounting Experts Board or the Finance Board of his own board, when he contributed to it, a young friend of ours, would do a revolution, rebuild the Ministry of Finance. But, as both a secretary and a minister, unfortunately, he hasn't been able to get into these issues yet.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0101par0140	We've signed very important reforms, we've done very important reforms, Mr. Kusoglu, and you know it.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0100par0141	I told you something very important, Mr. Secretary, that's what we expect of you. As a young minister, if you've destroyed boards like IRS Investigation, Accounting Experts...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0101par0142	We didn't.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0100par0143	You were going to do this new construction on the back. It's not tax reform yet; you brought tax reform, so you had to withdraw...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0101par0144	You wouldn't dream of it!
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0100par0145	...the union of income and institutional tax, the temporary budget was wrong, and now you've brought this. These are wrong jobs, and we expect much better work from you than your knowledge and savings; the Finance Ministry, Turkey, and the structures in Turkey need them.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0102par0146	They don't rule well.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0101par0147	We'll do it, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0100par0148	God willing, God willing, God willing. My dear friends, I say this because these are important matters. The tax system in Turkey is troubled, no tax system at all. Look, according to the 2016 budget -- we have a budget of $570.5 billion -- we have $460 billion in tax revenues in our budget, but in that we have tax dollars based on a statement -- which is the most important thing; the Finance Ministry takes taxes based on the statement, follows them, supervises them, makes arrangements for this -- 36 billion dollars, institutional taxes... Ninety-nine billion dollars is income tax in 2016, but most of it is taken by the public or stopped by the public, which is actually based on a statement of 5-6 billion. I mean, what does it do, 36, five more? For $41.41 billion, the Finance Ministry or the IRS will try to collect taxes based on the statement. The rest, for example, remain at $116 billion. You don't need a tax administration for that. Or there's 87 billion dollars worth of value tax in imports, there's a value added value tax in the amount of 51 billion dollars, which costs a lot. I mean, it's about $400 billion of these things, a little bit of those, unfortunately, taxes based on a statement. We have this kind of structure, and it needs to change as soon as possible. Unfortunately for him, there's no tax system, so we get a pardon every once or twice every two years in Turkey. Because there's no tax administration, because there's no tax system, because there's no tax awareness, because there's no tax ethics, unfortunately, we're dealing with them. That's why we need to change these things as soon as possible. Now, a very important reason for tax pardons is to reduce public interest, and to reduce public interest, you get a tax pardon. The reason for this offer is that we bring it in to reduce public purchases. It's said that, in general, this is the reason. Well, is it? Look, two years ago, it wasn't two years ago, or rather, in the ninth month of 2014, we made a law number 6552, where we sort of made a tax pardon, which is broad. It hasn't been two years, they haven't finished the installments, it's not over, it's not two years. At the time, we asked, how much tax money does the asset get? It was $67 billion, $67 billion. How much is the tax truth now? It's up to 90 billion. What about two years unfinished, incomplete, how does tax get up here like this, no abnormalities? Why won't the Minister of Finance ask that? It's not over for two years; we've got 67 billion, we've got forgiveness, we've got forgiveness, it's not over, it's up to 90 billion, what's the reason for that? What kind of understanding is that? At that time, the SGK will receive 32 billion. How much is it now? He's up to 68. Is it possible that you don't ask forgiveness, you get more, there's an anomaly here, doesn't the government or the Ministry of Finance bring it up? How do you do business here, what kind of institution is that? That's not possible. Now, if this is being done, if it's being done to reduce public interest, if there's an amnesty -- which is a very important institution, which shouldn't be done, it's an exceptional institution -- all of this should be considered; it's not memorized, it doesn't have that kind of understanding, it doesn't have that kind of public finance sense. So, there's an anomaly. Look, my dear friends, these are the numbers our Finance Minister gave us after he begged us. He won't give me the numbers. What is it? Why did you bring it? How much does he owe? What is the condition of these debtors? We will give them to them, we will give them to them, we will give them to them, and they will not be given to them. As a result, it's 90 billion 750 million liras -- that's what it's going to buy in tax types -- as of June 2016 -- it's a tax debt, and the delay increase is 45 billion 861 million liras. Now, you're looking at the number of taxpayers in debt -- added value tax -- as a tax type -- 1 million, 533,000, 1 million, 533,000. There's $2,477,000 worth of tax dollars, $1,533,000 in debt. Now, there are some of them who have abandoned their activity. They say, but within 2 million 477 thousand, we are constantly subject to the process of abandoning them. They say, "We keep them here." They say, "We keep them here." I don't get it, one. Two: 1 million 533,000 left in the process, but it's an abnormal number, a very abnormal number. So, then, you're not taxing. Look, it's 2 million 477,000. Come on, in 1 million 533,000, they're not subject to abandonment. Let's get it out, you've got 533,000, 1 million taxpayers... plus value tax is a trust tax. You take it from someone, you take it from a business, you take it from a taxpayer, you buy it temporarily, you deposit it into your system. That's 34 billion $785 million. 18 billion and 733,000 liras, and there's a delay increase. It's an abnormal number. How will this be paid? Look, same with the income tax. Two million, eight hundred and forty-one thousand in debt. The number of taxpayers who owe income tax is 2,811,000, totalling 1,815,000 income taxes. The debtor's number is 2 million 841 grand.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0103par0158	But there are those who owe $1, $3, $5.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0100par0159	One lira, three liras, five liras, if anyone owes me anything, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0103par0160	He'll tell you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0100par0161	He couldn't, that's what I'm saying. Mr. Vedat says...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0103par0162	And then there's 15 years of sediment, 15 years of sediment.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0100par0163	Look, this is the 6th pardon. Yeah, well, one day you'll have to answer for it. What's this, how many people owe money? We're getting a pardon, and the debt's going up. We can't handle this next time. Look, if you're asking for forgiveness, if we're asking for forgiveness, that's a reset. After that, you will make such a reform that there will be no further need for forgiveness. You'll forgive, and I'll be the state, and I'll forgive, and I'll forgive. You'll say, "You'll clean up after that." If you double the debt before two years are up, it won't be pardoned; it won't be government. There's a mistake here, there's an anomaly. Is that a thing? Companies tax: 559,317 debtors. As of June, 715,000 taxpayers owe 559 grand, and I just told you, this year we're going to collect 36 billion in the budget. He owes $11 billion, $274 million in tax money, and $5 billion in overtime. It's over $16 billion in corporate tax. How's he gonna pay? We'll get another $16 billion in addition to a place with 36 billion in expectations. Collect all this, and we'll get $300-350 billion from SGK, taxes, and math increases. It says the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Ministers. You can't get $300-350 billion. In these economic conditions of the country, you can't take this money, and you can make the taxpayer, the citizen, the tradesman, the worker, the peasant much worse. This is the wrong job. They're not brought in without thinking. These are things to think about. See, the same is the case with the SGK. There are 7,413 public enterprises, they even owe it to their pension fund, so our municipalities, our public employees, our 7,413 corporations. There are 1 million 790 thousand BUG-KURL people who owe a total of 1 million 996 at the end of the year. In addition to 1,250,000, the SGK employer, the former SSC employer, is in debt. With administrative fines and delay hikes, $86.5 billion will also be paid to the SGK. It's a pardon. That's what we're doing, a big change. There's been a coup attempt. We said, well, if after a coup attempt, if we're going to do it more properly, if we're going to do it in a new way, in a new way, with a new state of excitement, let's make it more comprehensive, let's make it a real pardon, let's erase some of what they're going to get, or they're going to pile up, they're going to be unbearable. So this -- I just mentioned -- $90 billion -- is going to be what the IRS is going to get; 67, 68 billion dollars -- is going to be what the SGK is going to get. You add these up: 157, 158 billion, with a delay increase of 200, 250 billion. This will double next time, after this pardon. We'll never get any after that, and then there'll be chaos, and then it'll be unbearable. So there's a big problem with the economy. After the coup attempt, do you know what's the economic issue of the law-ordered decrees -- which, by the way, came out yesterday? Procrastination of bankruptcy delays. The courts will no longer be able to decide whether to postpone bankruptcy, he says. Why? Because there's a big problem. So, if there's such a big problem, how can you bring this tax pardon in this way, and how can you make such a pardon? Does that mean anything? This will put Turkey into much more trouble tomorrow, and it is clear that there is an example. Look, what they were going to get two years ago went up to twice what the public was going to get. This time it's going to happen again, and in two years it's going to double again, and it's not going to be paid. That's what we're talking about, but thanks to our finances, we're bringing it in. As the Republican People's Party, I want to talk about one thing, it's on our schedule. In any case, those who pay taxes and bonuses on time must be encouraged. So either they need to be scored a certain base point on them, or they need to be reduced over that score, or they need to be allowed to get loans without interest, for those businesses who pay properly. It's on our schedule, and it needs to be added here. We've proposed it in the Commission, and we're proposing it here, again, we'll do it. Now, the other thing is that these beings, some beings, are being brought into the national economy. Last time, you know -- improving the investment environment -- it was in the law, you took it out on our insistence, but now we see it's come back again, rewritten in another language, in the same way. Dear friends, especially in the West, this coup attempt didn't find much response in the global world, it wasn't very convincing, as a NATO country, unfortunately it wasn't supported as a country in the European Union's integration process, we don't have foreign support. In a situation like this, a Turkey laundering money would probably be very bad. I mean, there's no way that a Turkish money launderer can find hot money after this. That's the most important thing. From now on, Turkey's economy should be particularly healthy, it should be able to stand, especially with no financial problems, no foreign currency problems. We make an arrangement like this, we say: "Bring the money from the Gulf -- we don't know where it's coming from -- make a statement, one day you can enter the banking system, take a check the next day, I won't get taxes, there's no requirement for it; it can be a foreigner, it can be a foreigner, it can bring a stranger, it can bring another person under the name." I don't understand this. Some of you know that, and some of you tell us it's wrong. But, really, it's the wrong arrangement, it's got to change once, it's got to get up. Yes, that would take away the AK PARTI power, but that would take away Turkey. We're so persistent about it, so we're stressing about it last time, and this time, you're doing the wrong thing, and it needs to be fixed. I specifically wanted to say more about it, but I'm out of time. On this occasion, I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0104par0173	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. The talks on the entire proposal on behalf of political party groups are over. Now, I'm going to make a pledge to the lawmakers who have requested a word on his behalf. First speaker on behalf of Mustafa War, Aydın MP. Here you go, Mr. War.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0105par0179	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak on behalf of myself regarding the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some Acquisitions in 409 rows. I hereby salute our great House and our nation. On the evening of July 15th, I curse the treacherous coup attempt against the will of our beloved nation. Our security officers and citizens who have been killed in the struggle for our country wish God's mercy and immediate healing to our wounded and thank you to our nation who are standing in the squares and on a democracy watch. Mr. President, in the time of the EC PARTI rulings, our governments have determined in a calendar the reduction of tax rates, simplification of the tax system, boosting investment and employment, promoting production, promoting research and development activities and making our country an attractive investment centre. As of November 3, 2002, the Council for the Co-ordination of Investments was established within the Ministry of Economics, together with the public, with the broad participation of trade organisations, private sector representatives and civil society representatives. Through this union, there have been substantial reforms and valuable contributions in the economy and in financial life, such as the establishment and the establishment of corporate companies and the era of businesses, the removal of obstacles to economic and commercial activities and reducing bureaucracy, the strengthening of companies' capital structures, the strengthening of large investments and initiatives, and the strengthening of companies' capital structures in economic and commercial activities, and the reduction of the tax loads of individuals and institutions. In order to continue economic development and development, the Ministry of Finance, Development, Science, Industry, Customs and Trade was also provided with significant support for other institutions' contributions and supports, sectoral and regional investment and employment incentives, allocation to individuals and institutions in economic activity, energy and capital support, income and institutions tax, and business services. Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, where did you find the economy blocked, known as the public, and the continuous implementation of its execution in 1998 has been terminated, thus bringing the savings and savings of our citizens abroad to our country? In order to ensure confidence in the economy, we have been able to bring into our economy the savings and savings of our country's people and institutions in economic and commercial activity abroad, two-time arrangement under the name "staying peace" of individuals and institutions, and subsidiary resources and savings outside the country, in order to strengthen their capital structures. The debt of individuals and institutions in debt to the state has been restructured in order to ensure the least impact of our economic and commercial enterprises, which have been caused by the economic crisis and shrinking in the world. The reforms and studies in the financial area have been implemented in the financial legislation, primarily tax laws, by simple, simple, understandable legislation, which paves the way for commercial life and economics. On the one hand, the Laws of Finances and Institutions Taxes were rewritten and the rates for these taxes were reduced, and on the other hand, important studies and audits in the Co-ordinating of the IRS Administration were taken down to 28 per cent of the off-the-book economy. In the past, all public expenditures were made by the Treasury. Now the Law on Public Financial Management and Control has made arrangements for the effective and efficient use of public resources based on a strategic plan under the responsibility and control of each ministry and its top administrator of each institution. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers we're discussing include what the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the Social Security Agency and municipalities will receive. Taxes, pictures, fees, tariffs and tardiness increases, customs taxes and administrative fines, tardiness and delay increases, social security premiums and administrative fines, tardiness interest and delay hikes, tardiness and tardiness hikes under the Law Code 6183 according to the provisions of Tax Administration 6183. This law is basically designed to restructure the debt of our citizens to the state, and the goal is to ensure that the tradesman, our merchant, our industrialist, will take the business and investment decisions more quickly and address their problems at some point of obligation against the state. The aim of this arrangement is to ensure that the savings of the proceeds be eliminated within a certain payment, as well as to end the conflicts, and the requirement that debtors who want to take advantage of the clauses should not press charges, but to drop the lawsuits. The restructuring is not giving up the collection of the original public debt, the tax is not giving up in any way. It's being updated by public inflation, and it's being reconstructed so that it doesn't go below the current value. Inflation rate is also used as a producer price index instead of a consumer price index. This arrangement is in the best interests of our citizens. In this scope, it is possible to pay the amount given to the original recipients on the basis of the domestic price index, which we refer to as an internal production rate, rather than a delay interest, a delay increase and a delay penalty. For example, as of today, the current rate of delay is 1.40 per cent per month, and the annual rate is 16.80 per cent. The rate of delay will be 16.80, after the regulation, 5.6 per cent, which is the 2015 UFE rate, if you are asked to collect a delayed allocation from 2015 as of today. In this way, our citizens will be given a substantial discount on delay increases. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers continue their efforts to improve the investment climate with this proposed law on the agenda of parliament, and this offer involves the ability to pay in installments of the private sector in order to ensure that our country is a center of attraction in terms of investment and to ensure the continuity of economic development, by reducing the debt burden of public debt to the private sector, ending a part of conflicts, solving issues in tax review without going in the way of trial, completing the operational status of business records and promoting the transition to the registered economy. As part of the practice, which has been implemented twice before, which provides significant capital and foreign currency inputs, these regulations are also made in order to bring some assets into the national economy. In 2016 and 2017, I respectfully salute the General Assembly, wishing our country the best of this law proposal, which we thought would be an important contribution to public revenues.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0106par0191	Thank you, Mr. War. Now, Mr. Naci Agbal, the Minister of Finance, has a request for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0107par0195	Mr. President, I have made a solemn promise to the government on the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of Some Acquisitions. As I begin my words, I salute you all. It's a really important arrangement for our taxpayers. As of June 2016, taxes on tax offices, social security institutions, municipalities, municipal private administrations, bonus debts are restructured, and our taxpayers are given a great deal of ease in different installment options. First of all, I would like to thank each and every one of them for their contribution to the development of the proposal, both our ruling party deputies and our opposition party lawmakers during the talks during the commission phase. During the commission talks, both our ruling party MPs and the opposition party have expanded the scope of the proposal, with motions brought by our MPs. We've done an important study on what concerns the larger communities, adding that they will receive new ammes and new public benefits for their initial tax and premiums. I'd like to thank all of our deputies for contributing to this work again. Today, hopefully, we'll all be able to finalize our negotiations on the proposal at the General Assembly, and hopefully, since it's in effect within this month, our taxpayers will be able to apply for it by the end of October, and hopefully, they'll be able to pay off their debts, which have reached 36 months. At the same time, it is possible to restructure and resolve controversial tax and premiums. This is an extremely important arrangement. Today there are ongoing cases in tax courts based on reports written by tax agencies and social security institutions, some of which are in the tax court, some of which are in the Court of Investigation. In this regard, if our taxpayers want, we can resolve these conflicts through peace, depending on the phase of the conflict, and by making a certain payment according to the latest court order. That way, we can clear up the disputes between the tax administration and the Social Security Agency and the citizens. Thirdly, there are tax reviews conducted by the tax administration in particular. And we're making it easy for our taxpayers to keep up with the ongoing tax reviews. If our taxpayers wish, they will benefit from the provisions of this law, in order to increase the memrah in the ongoing tax examinations. So the reviews will be completed within a month. The study process from here will be complete. One of the important arrangements brought with this proposal of the law is a matherapy enhancement. You know, in our tax laws, the tax administration has the right to study taxes for the past five years. Therefore, the administration of our taxpayers' past tenses can study taxes if it is necessary for any reason. With the arrangement here, if our taxpayers increase their statements by certain proportions, then they won't be subject to any tax reviews in retrospect. However, if our taxpayer has declared harm or has not declared a memrah, he will be able to benefit from the law's law in this way, in this case, if he is to increase the memrah of the minimum sums envisioned by the law. This is a very important arrangement. Today, in Turkey, in fact, tax review rates are around 2-3 per cent. We can't say that tax review rates are too high, but even so, there may be uncertainty about our taxpayers' tax obligations in the past tense. With the arrangement for matrah enhancement, we eliminate these past uncertainties. On the other hand, with this arrangement, we actually allow tax control agencies to long for more current periods of study. That's a lot of ease for our taxpayers. In this case, our citizens will be able to provide a memrah increase, including income tax, institutional tax, added value tax, income -stopage tax. Again, in this arrangement, we bring provisions that allow taxpayers to correct their records. And that's extremely important. In particular, in the company's balance sheet, in the bank account, in the stocks account, in the partners' accounts, the actual situation can be different from that of different reasons. In that case, we bring our taxpayers an opportunity by this law. As of the end of the year, if the situation is different in the business records as of 31/12/2015, they will be able to rectify their records within the framework of these laws, so that if they have assets in their records that are not in their stocks, they will be able to get them out of their records, and if they are different from what they are, they will be able to correct it by rectifying it. This is an extremely important arrangement. Finally, with this proposal of law, an important provision is made for the adoption of both assets in and abroad. In fact, this arrangement was part of the law on improving the previous investment environment, but there were some hesitations that our opposition parties expressed here, and together, we took it out of the bill to reassess it; this time, we produced a new text by considering different views within this proposal. In this text, I think we've made the necessary changes to eliminate the hesitations expressed. However, the Plan and Budget Commission again expressed some reservations about the new state of matter. After that, we made changes by making a motion on the Commission to address these reservations. What's important here is that both our citizens' assets abroad be brought to Turkey and brought into the economy, and their assets in the country are added to business records, which are not included in business records. By the end of this year, by the end of this year, people will benefit from these laws if they bring their assets from the bank channel or from the customs channel to Turkey, including their assets within the country. So, what does this arrangement bring? It's a subject that's been speculating here from time to time. This arrangement, if you have a presence, you can bring it and save it freely in Turkey. So, if you're not a taxpayer in any way, if this is the first time you've brought your presence to Turkey, then you can evaluate your existence in a bank, put it into a company as capital, you can buy a real estate. In all these cases, we're talking about a presence in a registered economy that is being recorded at every stage, in the process of bringing the entity to Turkey and in the process of using the entity in Turkey. Again, the assets in Turkey are not in business records, but are essentially part of the registered economy. In that sense, the legal arrangement is an important contribution to the growth of our citizens' assets abroad and abroad, while, in fact, the economy on the other hand, is also registered. In the legal arrangement here, we don't anticipate any tax on the taxpayers who bring their assets from abroad and on the taxpayers who receive these business records from abroad, because the goal of this law is not to obtain any tax revenue in any way, but to bring as many assets into the economy as possible. On the other hand, I also said in the Commission that there have been significant developments, especially in international taxation lately. Today, the international community is building platforms, especially by meeting to fight international tax loss and fugitives, within the OECD, within the G20, especially at the point of obstruction of tax loss and fugitives. The most prominent development in this area is the sharing of information -- from 2018, the countries signing this international contract -- which now includes more than a hundred countries -- are going to share information mutually, so they're going to inform the other country about the tax treatment of their citizens in their own country. In these developments, both OECD and G20, especially in the pre-2018 period, encourage countries to make the sort of arrangement that we are currently trying to make, as well as the final point of exit from the bridge. So before the 2018, countries must make legal arrangements to bring their citizens back to the country. They make principle decisions, and they even make guides to how to encourage them, and they want them to announce them to their own citizens. Turkey is a country integrated with the international community, fully committed to its international obligations. In this sense, this arrangement, which we now describe as peace of existence in Turkey, is completely in line with these international trends and international developments. What we've done is an arrangement in accordance with all of Turkey's international obligations, so let me rephrase that. As a result of this arrangement, these beings will join the economy as part of the fully registered economy, both at the moment it arrives and at the later stages. In this way, we will have met the need for resources by considering the savings of our own citizens or citizens of another country. On the other hand, we will be giving serious support to the registered economy. On the other hand, based on the arrangements we've made, we're going to make the equity side of the balance sheet of our businesses stronger. We, we all know that our citizens have different assets abroad. This is not exclusively for citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Today, citizens from every country in the world, taxpayers, are able to move their assets from country to country, especially within the globalized capital network. So, what we're talking about today is, as in Turkey, it's actually something that's been talked about, studied and edited in all communities and other states. I would like to thank again our representatives, especially for contributing to the development of the substance during the arrangement that we've made. It is our duty to address the hesitation expressed here. So we've made the necessary changes in the Commission phase, and we have talks at the General Assembly stage, and hopefully we'll be contributing here at the point of further development of this clause. It's an important arrangement, and I know that we all support it, and I know that in principle, we all agree that such an arrangement is principlely correct. It's a beautiful, encouraging situation. What we're all trying to do together is just that this arrangement has become a framework that will further eliminate hesitations within the legislation. On the other hand, the speakers before me, in particular, have made some assessments of the negotiations held during the Commission, and I thank them for their evaluations. First of all, they mentioned a painting that we, the Ministry of Finance, had given in regard to tax debts. It's true, I also stated in the Commission phase, that our friends at that time... well, there was no plea, we were a little late, but we were a little late, especially because I was meticulous about the production of the painting, and then we gave them the painting, but, of course, there were hesitations. I've given instructions to my friends, especially at the time, that we've expressed in the Commission stage, that a group of taxpayers are actually responsible for leaving the number of tax debtors, and that they've done a detailed statistical study on him, hopefully we'll bring him in and share with you in a moment. Of course, none of us would want to increase tax debts. Here, in general, the basic indicator of tax collection in both the tax administration and the Social Security Institution is the proportion of rights/efficiency. In this case, the proportion of thahukkuk/efficiency varies between 88 per cent and 90 per cent in the tax administration and Social Security Institution, friends. I'd like to bring this to your attention in particular. Here, as a tax debt, there are tax returns based on reports written in this framework based on tax offences, which we call tax offences, in particular, which are not capable of collecting, whether it's finalized or controversial, whether it's important to some of the higher-recessions. I mean, the fake document was forged, the fake document was used, the administration identified it, the document-maker disappeared; that's not true, we need to catch this, there's no problem here, but since there's no case against this tax issue, it's been confirmed. Every certain purchase goes into our stockpile of normal purchases. So let's not forget that some of the amount that you're going to get, some of the amount that you're going to get here, some of the amount that you're going to get, is actually going to be made that way. The 88-90 percent ratio may be better -- but I can't say it's too bad -- we're working every day to make it better. In this area, with your support, we also passed arrangements to increase information sharing between the tax administration and Social Security Agency in the previous draft law on improving the investment climate. Let's take this rate up to 95, and that's what we want. I agree, in this case, structural arrangements must be made. The administration needs to improve its quality of both information technologies and human resources, and I agree with that. We need to reform our tax laws, and we agree with them. We're doing these, too. From time to time, in the time of our governments, we brought what we might call reformary arrangements. We are also converting administration, so today the Finance Ministry in 2002 will not be the Finance Ministry in 2002, but the Finance Ministry in 2016, of course, will be much different from 2002. The structure of the state, the structure of the economy has changed. We have to be a government that adapts to change in economics, change in public administration, global trends. So, if you look at most of the arrangements we've made at the Finance Ministry, behind them, to increase efficiency in management, to increase efficiency, to achieve a hierarchy in management, and above all, I always say, the first duty of the administration is to protect and improve the right and the law of the taxpayer. So, if we, in the administration, take the taxpayer's rights and the law to the center, fundamentally determine the duty service, I believe that if we do all our administrative organization structures and our responsible services based on this axis, then I believe that in Turkey, we will be willing to comply with taxes. No one has to worry here, but the reforms we've been doing in the IRS recently are entirely behind administrative improvements. Look, we're doing things today that aren't in many Western countries. Today, we receive 98% of tax returns electronically. That's amazing. I mean, sometimes when they come in, they say, "Ya, can you really do that?" We all did it together. Work has started in the days before us, and we're continuing that work. I want to thank everyone who contributes to these studies, but together, we're going to grow this country, and together, we're going to build this country. It's very important that our representatives in the tax laws, and I care that we're going to make good points together, together, hopefully. I thank you for your contribution during the negotiations of this law, and I now wish the law to be good for our country, for our nation. At the end of my words, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0108par0220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I also want to thank the Finance Minister of 2002, the Director-General of IRS, and the Director-General of IRS, who prepared the project that allowed 98 per cent of tax returns to be received electronically. (HPP) I also want to thank the Justice and Development Party governments for implementing this project.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0109par0224	Who prepared it, Mr. President? You didn't give me a name.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0108par0225	I'd also like to thank Mr. Zechariah Maziel, who started the Full Automation Project. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary actually did that in between his sentences, so I opened up a little bit more of that thank-you. Second speaker on behalf of Mehmet Bekkinoğlu, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0110par0234	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to express my personal opinion on the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some Acquisitions number 409 that we're discussing. I salute you all. Dear friends, we are facing a 15-year government. We know that the offer that came in here today was actually the government's bill, but the government won't be willing to offer six pardons in fifteen years, which is an offer. Minister, let's face it, my dear friends, things are not going well. That's what it means to bring six fiscal pardons in 14 years. I've looked, looked, and looked, at such pardons and configurations, how it happened in the past, in Turkey, in other countries. New powers are coming, big claims are changing power. In particular, from the previous power comes the rulings with a very different ideological view. They offer to start again, from scratch, such pardons, or very difficult situations; there are crises, wars, earthquakes, internal disturbances, pardons for economic issues, pardons for political and social issues. Is that what happened? So if so, who are we going to call from now? There's one thing about this government, they're constantly projecting problems out. I mean, things aren't going so well in the world. That's how it happened, and the weather wasn't good, and there was a drought. They're constantly projecting responsibility from themselves. In political matters, as in these recent July 15th events, the government does not take responsibility. My dear friends, of course we're not going to blame the landlord when there's no way to rob, but my dear friends, yes, after a while, we have questions to ask the landlord, and that time has passed. Now, if we're going through a period of restructuring, we have a claim to restore social peace, then how did we get here, we have to look for the answers to these questions? Now, there have been no economic crises, but we bring political pardons, economic pardons. Yeah, well, with these pardons coming, what happened until this came to this, the government didn't actually answer that question in any way. It's like, you know, there's some people who have their own... yeah, there's some people who actually take advantage of these pardons, who don't pay taxes, who somehow smuggle them out of the nation and use them as their own capital, but if they can't really pay taxes on this vast base, then there's a problem with this system going on, but there's no self-criticism about this problem, my dear friends. In fact, this recent political crisis has not yet done any self-criticism regarding the coup attempt, and I think it's time to make that self-criticism. The responsibility for all of this is for you who have been in power for fifteen years, my dear friends, the Justice and Development Party. We've been deceived all the time. It's not gonna happen, my dear friends. You're being tricked, but people pay for it, this community pays for it, the people pay for it, and the economic problems pay for it, and so on. Here, 237 people died in this final coup attempt. There is a crisis in the world, so what should we do? Aren't you running the country? Didn't you see the world coming, the crisis coming? What measures have you taken? You have to answer all of this. Now, for the first time, Turkey faces restructuring after a failed coup. Before that, all the coups have been successful, except for small attempts, we've had martial law, extraordinary situations, and we've gone into democracies in some way. Now we're dealing with another situation, and there's no such experience. Before this experience, if we want to establish inner peace, to really start a new chapter, we have to give up our previous habits. We need to share our mistakes with society, share them with the opposition, apologize to this community, to the people, and to give up these habits. The most basic of all of this -- it's been repeated, because it's important -- once again, we have to give up this identity-discrimination policy. This was done by the chiefs, by the government, by the President, by my dear friends, we're going to give it up, there's no way out. Look, you see, look, you've faced a blow, and we've all stood up to the coup, and we've all stood up to democracy, without the distinction of identity, political difference of opinion, ideology. This is a very important thing. Second important thing is to consider opposition, dear friends. Where there's no opposition, there's no democracy. Where different thoughts are not discussed or expressed, there are no good things. He's done the wrong thing, the government, and he needs to apologize to them, and he can't do it again. Yeah, you wrote the opposition to terror, the main opposition party, that's not going to happen. The opposition must be considered. When you say the opposition needs to be considered, no matter what anyone says, there's a party coming in with six million citizens' votes, the Democratic Party of Peoples; you can't ignore it, my dear friends. One of the most important problems this country has had is the Kurdish problem, where it's sitting; we're not talking these days, but it's stopping. (Applause from the Peoples' Democratic Party) This is the issue of the People's Democratic Party. Therefore, we can't go anywhere ignoring him, my dear friends. Now, I'll tell you a few words about the law we're talking about: look, there are two fundamental problems, and I've expressed that in the commission. One, yes, now we're making an arrangement about people who have problems, who have problems with payment. So, what are we gonna do about the payers, guys? What kind of justice would that be? I paid my debts, the other didn't pay his debts, he invested his capital. They're not all in trouble. Therefore, along with this arrangement -- we are not late -- there is an offer from the Republican People's Party on behalf of those who pay their debts on time; this proposal is accepted, and they are actually told something in the name of justice. My dear friends, the tax actually prevents wealth from gathering in certain hands, which is actually one of the most important tools of justice. So we have to be very careful about tax manipulation. Look, while this law is being discussed, the employers' agencies, they're all here. Why? They're strong. Why? They're organized. Why? They have money. It's not the arrangements for them, friends. Because of the tax we're going to give up, the minimum wage will be reduced by $40, and we're not going to be able to give it back. We keep minimum wage at 1,300, not 1,500. Therefore, we are representatives of the large populations. We'll protect them, protect the rights of non-organized citizens, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. That's what the state is for, that's what the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is for. That's why the Republic is the only one of the orphans, my dear friends. (HPP clapping in rows) When this bill is being drafted, it is clear that this thought is not considered at all. And look at something about this system. Look, a list of tax record holders is being published; we're looking at all of them, all of them dealing with the runt, all of them dealing with the real estate, the interest. Look, before the 2001 crisis came, almost all of our businessmen, our conglomerates, they were providing 85 percent of their income, their profits from non-invasive areas, loaning money to the government; that was the 2001 crisis. Now, here we see these numbers, a new crisis is coming, my dear friends. Look, the second thing that's more important than forgiveness is peace of existence, that's a serious problem; our friends have told us, others will tell us. This is not something that the Minister has expressed, it's not something that the tax-related money -- it's a tax-related problem -- it's a tax-related problem -- it's not something that's been removed to Turkey to come back to pay less -- it's what OECD is calling money, my dear friends. It's not an arrangement for the return of the money found in different places due to taxes, where we count the tax paradise. If such an arrangement were to happen, it would be the saving of the government. We will say, "We will not object, but that is not the case in this arrangement. " This arrangement is something that no matter what its source, no matter where it is, no matter how it's earned, no matter how it's earned, all of this money... if a new arrangement doesn't come, if a new proposal doesn't come, if this bill does, then Turkey will really be a black money paradise. It's not acceptable. A friend of ours who served as vice-president of the Justice and Development Party on the Commission accused us of being coupters for doing these criticisms. No, guys, not like this. If you pass this law, there will be no money for Turkey, and even if it does, the cost of the future will increase many times, and this nation will pay for it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0111par0249	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. Talks on the entire proposal are completed on behalf of groups and individuals. Now we're going to do a 20-minute QA on the whole proposal. Initiating question-answer sequence. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0112par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you have made a statement concerning the issue of the 7th article of this proposal: we don't demand taxes, we don't receive taxes on the money coming from abroad. We have only one goal, which is to bring these assets into the economy. You said. Well, these coins came to Turkey, and there's no measure as to how long it would take for this money to get into the economy, no investment obligations, no conditions, no safety locks, no safety sibobs. This money came in -- and just -- if the state of the Republic of Turkey comes out to mediate this money -- if it doesn't have any locks, then where do we benefit from it?
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0111par0256	Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0113par0257	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, good luck on your duties, dear bureaucrats, to the new bureaucrats first. As I see it, the staff has changed quite a bit, and just as it has infiltrated the rest of the country, we know that a large number of people have infiltrated your Ministry today as we call them. I've spoken to you again before, but I repeat, for the sake of all Turkey to hear: in the process, a lot of people were forced to give men and money. In fact, your bureaucrats and your IRS officers and your executives have stepped up, and these people -- those who are forced -- are in custody today, under the pressure of those governors, the governors, the bureaucrats or the bureaucrats; and those who didn't get the tax fines that they didn't deserve or got the fines that they didn't. Do you intend to do anything for the victims of these people?
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0114par0261	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0115par0262	My first question is to the Minister of Finance: Our mayors are public servants, officials representing the state in the neighborhoods. They are now paid 1,300 Turkish liras, but have no social security. Do you intend to provide social security for our underprivileged heads of state, provided the social security premiums are paid by your Ministry? My second question to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security is that because of the negative developments in our country, our tradesmen and farmers are in a very difficult position. We see that our tradesman and farmers are having trouble paying their debts. They suffer because BUG-KUR bonuses have been unfairly raised from 400 Turkish liras to 570 Turkish liras. So, when are you going to lower your BUG-KUR bonuses to 470 Turkish liras? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0116par0265	Mr. Durmaz...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0117par0266	Thank you, Mr. President. In the various counties of the country and the slaps, the frosts, the frosts, the hails, the rains, the floods, the damage has not yet been determined by the agricultural county administration and the relevant ministry, and the debt delays by the manufacturers reported to the relevant ministries. Does your Ministry have any work and savings in this matter? My second question: what is the rate of payment in past tax peace? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0118par0270	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0119par0271	I've just proposed a law, and I've made a proposal for amendments to the Law of Alms for the 13th and 14th Amendments. What I suggested was that there should be no tuition from the cases of the victims of terrorism, so that the basic principles of justice for victims of crime or abuse of authority can be given to those who are victims of the crime, as well as the effective investigative opportunity for the 40th article of our Constitution. Our AKP friends did not approve my proposal, claiming it would bring a great burden to the Ministry of Finance. What kind of cargo will it bring? I'd like your opinion on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0120par0274	Mr. Akkaya...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0121par0275	Mr. Secretary, prior to the November 1st election, you made copies of the Republican People's Party, promising pensioners promotions and subcontractors working in the public. It's been ten months, you don't have a procedure yet. You're fooling pensioners and subcontractors. In every case we've been deceived. You say, "We've been deceived." But you're deceiving these two sections. Mr. Secretary, running the state is a serious business, and you, as a government, cannot govern the state. This was confirmed on July 15th. What you need to do is basically resign and you can't do it. You have to decide early. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0122par0278	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0123par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. After the failed coup attempt of the rebel organization called the Fethullah Gulen Community, we strongly support the struggle of our state and the removal of all elements of this terrorist organization from within the institutions. In the process, the Republican People's Party will also be the party that restores the state with the identity of the party that founded the state. However, in the investigations, we ask that people be respected for their rights to fair trial and not to be tainted. We get complaints that some people have been declared guilty for reasons that are not complacent, without evidence, just because of the complaint and gossip mechanism, or just because the school student, the bank, his money, the newspaper he read, his neighbor, etc. -- that's the case in Giresun -- but some of the protocols are not touched, but the double standard has been applied. If the scope, understanding, and technique of the investigation are created accordingly, many victims will be created and will benefit the most. It is imperative that the government establish a definition of crime immediately and that the investigations be carried out accordingly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0124par0283	Mr. Karbük...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0125par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it is under the decree that the law proposal has been waived from the payment of all tax sentences and all delay hikes, including those paid prior to the release of this law, in accordance with Article (1) (a) of Article 2 (absolutely they will receive it). Again, similar customs duties have been arranged in the context of the article (2) (a). I would also like to announce the tax bases, which were included in the article, which had been paid the tax base, which had been eliminated in the process of reconciliation, for example, the fact that the entire tax base had been erased in the settlement, and that there had never been a settlement in the fine, and that the tax base, which would have been eliminated after a compromise, would have been counted in this article. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0126par0287	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0127par0288	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I asked earlier, in the farm district of Niğde, Bozköy, Divarlı, Ovalıbağ, Tzardak and Aksaray Taşpınar have not been paid in recent talks concerning the damage detected in the flood in 2014. Niğde Bozköy Mayor Yalçın Telelı as well as Aksaray Taşpınar Mayor Jahan Yüksel as the municipality in which they are victims. When will these payments be made for public service? Is it a reason why these municipalities have not been paid so far? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0128par0291	Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0129par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Secretary, as a government, every few months, you give pensioners the news of promotion, but you don't give them the promotion. When will this promotion be given in concrete? Second, the feast of sacrifice is coming up. Will you make the faces of our pensioners smile on this holiday? As a CHP group, we offered a bill to pay the pensioners a bonus. Are you going to bring this to the House until the holidays? Third: Will you include them in this law regarding loans used by OSBs from the Ministry of Industry? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0130par0297	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0131par0298	Mr. President, thank you. The Minister of Energy and Natural Resources has been on live broadcasts at certain intervals, giving our citizens the news of a sale on natural gas. Speaking on a live TV channel the other day, Mr. Minister announced that they had been working on a sale on natural gas before winter. We know that the price of natural gas imports has also gone down in parallel with oil prices that have fallen worldwide, and that we have imported natural gas at a much lower price as Turkey has long since. It was also noted that the price of natural gas that we won the case on Iran's natural gas has dropped, as well as the price of the gas that we took from it. Now, what needs to be done is that the price of falling natural gas must now be reflected in our citizen's bill without delay. Mr. Secretary, instead of going on the air every two or three months and giving the citizens the good news, let's get a real discount. We ask that you, as Minister of Finance, consider the people's budget and please take care of the matter.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0132par0301	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0133par0302	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, under Law 1416, there is a request from the PhD students sent to foreign countries by the Ministry of National Education. The interest grant on national scholarships has already been applied to foreign PhD students. Earlier, similar laws were given in 2011, with Article 4 of Law 6111, then Article 1 of Law 6552 in 2014. Is there anything to prevent the victims of students in this situation? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0134par0305	Dear Desire Virtue...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0135par0306	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, our nation's problems are on our side. As part of the tax pardon, all real estate on those who can't make payments on these installments is covered. As this measure does not amount to a person or company's debt, the person who is able to pay his debt with a real estate is unable to remove his property and thus is victimized. In this regard, the foreclosure on other real estate continues, even though the person who wants to pay the debt wants to sell one of its properties is unable to pay due to precaution. Are you going to find a solution to this? Our citizen is awaiting an answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0136par0309	Thank you, Your Grace. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the Minister for answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0137par0312	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Tanal made an assessment that we did not bring any use requirements for being brought from abroad specifically to be brought into the economy, that we did not add any capital, that we did not provide a requirement to use it in a specific place, so there was no point in making this arrangement. Of course, different incentives can be used here for the introduction of foreign beings. I mean, part of them are compelling measures to bring them in, and part of them are incentives to save as much of the property as possible, or the property of the taxpayer or the citizen, instead of doing so. Here we are, using the free saving method of these two choices. We believe that those who bring in assets from abroad here will use them to be the most rational for them. If they want, they can deposit in a bank... that's what they need. I mean, it would be wrong for us to view the presence brought to Turkey as valuable to just one company as capital. It is also valuable for us to have deposits in a bank, or it can acquire real estate, which is also valuable.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0138par0314	He left immediately, Mr. Minister, he ran out, he checked out, he left Turkey.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0137par0315	That's an assumption. I mean, he can stay, invest, bring it in first, then alter his original purpose. We have a difference of approach here. We say that the more we give our citizens the right to free savings, the greater the incentive of the law, and the greater the resources brought to Turkey. I will never accept this intermediary issue. Every penny brought to Turkey is part of our international obligations, which will be brought into the framework of the legislation, which is, outside of this law, will be recorded and recorded, even if it goes abroad again. Therefore, there is never an arrangement under this law that will not be asked ahead of time in any way if the money brought to Turkey re-enters Turkey in any way. Thus, the provisions are valid here -- including all information sharing -- which our legislation dictates. Mr. Irgil, they expressed some sensitivity to these detention issues. Believe me, right now, in the wake of this July 15 coup attempt, our government is using all the powers vested in it by the State of Emergency Act and other legislation to conduct investigations into the terrorist organization. All of these investigations are under the current legislation. We're all paying attention to your concerns, your sensitivity for all of us. There's no way we can break anyone's rights and laws with gossip in any way, with this, but as a government, we're particularly careful about that. And when you have different issues that come to you from time to time, and we come to you from time to time, we are very sensitive about them. There will be a fight against this criminal organisation using all the legal legislation necessary for the elements of the terrorist organization, both within public institutions and outside public institutions. After all, we all know that the coup attempt on the night of July 15th is a coup attempt against democracy in this country, against national will in this country. In any way, it's not a coup attempt against this one, but against all of us, and the courage that our Veteran Assembly showed here that day, that night, was truly capable of national will, and it's admirable on everything. We'll follow your sensibilities in this matter together, I hope. Mr. Arslan has made an assessment of our chiefs' salaries and social security premiums. First of all, our chiefs have been included in the social security system under the existing Social Security Act, so as a long-term insurance arm, they can benefit from pension rights by paying a bonus in the framework of the pension system. Here, as a government, I'd like to say that we've been constantly upping inflation in chief salaries for the past 14 years. On the other hand, at the end of 2015, the general salary, which was around $950, went up to 1,300, so the chief salary was raised by 30 per cent. So, there are arrangements that we've made so far that our chiefs' salaries will be increased, that we've had significant results. And from now on, hopefully, we'll show the proper sensitivity to the efforts of our chiefs. You know as well as the BUG-KUR-KUR people -- it's being transferred to our Parliament right now -- we're bringing in a legal arrangement that brings down five points on the social security premiums of our citizens in a new bill. So in this framework, depending on the amount of BUG-KUR premiums that our BUG-KUR participants will pay, if I remember correctly, we're making at least 50 liras of the same amount, but we're making significant improvements in different amounts. Mr. Durmaz, in particular, a question about the arrangement we made with the loan delay... no, about our farmers, about...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0139par0322	That's what I asked, that's what I asked.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0137par0323	Right. In that regard, our Ministry of Agriculture has made preparations based on damage detection studies from the provinces. The Ministry of Finance is working with the Department of Agriculture right now. Hopefully, we'll be able to work on that soon enough.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0139par0324	I asked about the payment rate in previous peace. So the number of taxpayers going to the configuration...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0137par0325	If you'll excuse me, then, I'll have my friends pick him up at the Department of Agriculture.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0139par0326	No, sir, about tax peace, previous peace...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0137par0327	Oh, yeah? Sorry. I didn't include him in my notes. The collection rate in the 2003 Reconstruction Act is 67.2%; the collection rate in the 2011 Reconstruction Law is 67.2%; the currently underwent -- which is not yet completed in 2014 -- 43 billion dollars has been constructed; so far, $10.2 billion has been collected in this framework. There's no way to give a ratio here because it's already going on. Mr. Sarihan, this is the first time I've heard from you about the fact that these victims of terror are not being charged. You know, I'm not familiar with the debates, but if you'll let me take a look at it -- what is it about -- we can do a study based on what you suggested. Mr. Akkaya, the promotion has brought up his wish on the subject of subcontractors, and we're doing the necessary work on these issues. July 15th, I just said...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0140par0331	Mr. Secretary, I didn't wish it, you said it, I asked you how you looked at a case you tricked a citizen into.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0137par0332	No, no, we haven't fooled our citizens, we're bound by every word we say, I assure you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0140par0333	You cheated everything, you cheated the citizens.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0137par0334	But I can't possibly agree with your assessment of July 15th. It's a very constructive thing that happens in the House...
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0140par0335	Mr. Secretary, you've relieved 56,000 people in one day; you've failed to pass two laws in ten months, promotion of subcontractors and pensioners.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0137par0336	Okay. I don't agree with you on this. Mr. Bektaşoglu has emphasised the issue of fair trial, gossip. Really, the sensitivity you're expressing is the sensitivity of all of us.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0141par0339	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0137par0340	In that regard, of course, there have been some very hot developments in a very short period of time, and we see that there have been mistakes from time to time, as these investigations have been conducted quickly. Once we've identified these, we'll go for them. So with your support for fighting this terrorist organization, hopefully, we'll be able to carry out the fight to the end. But in the state of law, in accordance with the law, in accordance with justice, we will conduct it within rights and law. In the course of the investigations, when there are any setbacks or errors, we move quickly towards them, and in these matters, they have been sent to us. I want to express that we will show all kinds of sensitivity in what you call them.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0142par0341	It's stained.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0137par0342	We have common sensibilities about that. Mr. Gürer said, "Are these AFAD coins not being given because our municipalities in the district are CHP municipalities?" It's totally out of the question, so there's no way we can think of anything like a party distinction here. There are demands from municipalities from 2014, 2015 and 2016; as the Ministry of Finance, let me be clear, in a discipline, we try to meet them within the scope of budget opportunities, but you can appreciate that we also have to look at budget opportunities. Mr. Kayishoglu asked if we would receive some good news before the festival on promotions and bonuses. Since it has something to do with our Minister of Labor, I'm not going to go into it because I think it would be wrong for me to make a statement. Mr. Akin asked me a question about the discount issue, but I didn't get the exact grade, so if you think it's okay next time, I'll continue. Mr. Pineak, we have come to the point of restructuring the debt to this doctor's students, but frankly, there are very different demands. And we've done a lot of work on these doctoral students in all the configurations before, but let's just be clear, we didn't actually get a lot of efficiency in the previous configurations, so we're doing a lot of configuration here, but it really doesn't seem to fit the purpose, but I'm going to tell my friends about one of their studies again, and we're going to have to look at the previous ones again. Mr. Virtue, in particular, about real estate foreclosures... we normally have to put the amount of tax debt on a person when we're impounding them as a rule, not to do any kind of infraction that exceeds his tax debt, which is not proportional to him. So, we've got the notifications, we've got the arrangements, but if there's anything specific going on with you, let's go over it, shall we? If not, we have the same sensitivity, and I might even say that in the coming period, we will bring to the House a structural arrangement in which we can bring what eases we can, taking into account the difficult state of these taxpayers who are in really difficult situations. I'm working on an arrangement that will bring this kind of opportunity, hopefully we'll bring him back.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0143par0349	Okay, I'll get you a concrete sample then.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0137par0350	But if there's a very specific example, I'd like to ask you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0143par0351	Okay, I'll direct it to you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0137par0352	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit04spe0144par0353	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-02sit05spe0144par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 409 from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin talks with Dair Law Bill (1/742) and the Foreign Commission Report (1/742), which is ranked in the 2nd place, confirming the Protocol on the Joining of the Black Mountain in the North Atlantic Treaty. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will not be found after this, the decision has been made to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Wednesday (August 3rd 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00, so I'll say good night.
