tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I'd like to ask the lawmakers to press ballots and report that they've been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to access the electronic system during this time, ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system, to deliver their roll-call ballots through the staff, within a two-minute period. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, due to today's speciality, we would like to share our thoughts as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Presidential Court. It's Regaip Night. These nights, celebrated by burning candles, are one of our traditional cultural values. Our cultural values are based on the fundamental principles of religion, and each society forms these practices in its own natural environment. It is a sign of the universality and dynamicity of Islam that our values have different local properties, that they offer changes to different societies. Regaip Night announces the spiritual climate of three months. The word Regaip means the values that are desired to be used. In this sense, I wish that the Regaip Night, which reminds us of our feelings of peace, brotherhood, solidarity, would be a source of peace that we miss for our country and our region, and I congratulate you and our citizens on the Regaip Night. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Congressmans, we are also in Police Week, which includes the 171st anniversary of the 171st anniversary of our police force, one of the major and fundamental institutions of the Republic of Turkey. Our police work under very difficult circumstances during a period of high security concerns. On this occasion, I celebrate our members of the police, who have served in the rule of law, the universal values of human rights, the peace and happiness of our people, the safety of life and property, the great sacrifice to protect human rights and freedom, the martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for their country and duty. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement is from Afyonkarahisar MP Hatice Dudu Özkal. Here you go, Mr. Ozkal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0002par0023	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book promise because the esteemed lawmakers are today's Regaip Kandili. I salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I congratulate all the faithful on Regaip Kandili, and pray that all the good things come to pass. Regaip is an Arabic plural name, derived from the root of the reğababe, which means seeking, wanting, inclined, and seeking to obtain it. Regaip is the first Friday night of Recep's month. The Hicri calendar says it's the first Thursday night, day after night, day after day. The Regaip is a messenger who points out that the three months of mercy, blessing, and forgiveness are being entered into the spiritual climate for those who evaluated it, a night of great blessing and a night of prayer when God's forgiveness has showered upon us. A desire is a desire, a desire and a liking. And man will be pursued according to what he desires. Rebaib Kandili is an effort to make all our desires, desires, desires, desires, needs, needs, rights, goods, goods, rights, and truth, to make all our works acceptable to Him. Let our demand be not for anything else, but only for the One and only, that our every night may be Regaib. May all God's creatures be served, Regaib. All days and night belong to God. There is no distinction between any of them. He who does the most good that day shall be the most worthy of him, excepting him who is made to suffer a loss of two days. Holy nights are the cause of forgiveness and forgiveness, which is why you are hereby exalted. As human beings, we must always be compassionate and merciful. But there are moments when we forget to be like this. Holy day and nights always remind us of these good deeds we forget. In the human view that Turks bring to Islamic philosophy, co-operation, accounting with the past, reining their ambitions, avoiding conflict of interest, forgetting grudges and resentment, remembering older people, being mediating the environment of tolerance and understanding, are the basic building blocks that hold our society together. Candles are the days of the members of societies to approach each other with love and respect, to take each other's hearts, to live in happiness and peace. The important days that brought society together on the basis of unity, unity, brotherhood, and solidarity have been lamps. It's the days of uninteresting respect and love. Indeed, holy days and nights are also a means of restoring religious feelings in social life, as well as that they have a certain importance as a way to bond among people, to promote unaccounted friendships. Let us pray that this evening, described as a final prayer, will lead us to make peace with ourselves, with our soul, with each other, and live in peace. Do not say that those who die in the way of God are dead; they are alive, and you do not feel. For I remember all our martyrs with mercy. My compliments to all of you, in the depth of the meaning of the Regaip Kandili, which we are about to understand today, we wish to welcome each other, despite our words and differences. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0003par0033	Thank you, Mr. Ozkal. The second non-promoting statement is from Isparta MP Nuri Okutan, who asked for the appointment of April 10, Police Week. Here you go, Mr. Reader. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Reader, I assume you'll also be listening.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0004par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to Police Week. On this occasion, I salute you all. I also congratulate all the Muslim world on the blessed Regaip Kandili, which we will understand tonight, and I call upon Almighty God to bring the lamp to the Turkish Islamic world and to all mankind health, peace, and happiness. On behalf of my party and person, I celebrate the 171st anniversary of the Turkish police force, which is the greatest guarantee of Turkey's security and stability, the welfare and peace of the people. Since April 10, 1845, our police have earned the right to our nation's right to a high-profile task, such as protecting our national unity and integrity, securing the safety of the people's lives and property. With the two centuries approaching, the Turkish police have succeeded in becoming an important building block of the Republic of Turkey, a democratic, secular and social legal state. Today, it must be a priority and urgency to meet the equipment, training, and so-called needs of our police, who have been highly complex and difficult tasks day and night from the fight against drugs and traffic terrors that have been maintaining their position in the early part of our country's agenda, but as of today, I think the most indispensable need of our police is moral and motivation. In fulfilling this need, important tasks lie with the government and with our nation. This statement means that public support should be at the highest level, the most important factor in our police's ability and ability, along with morale. The moment a policeman finds the most morale from his officer to his superior, our citizens approach him with the confidence of the police uncle. On the other hand, the necessary arrangements to increase the influence and authority of the police force, especially in the fight against terrorism, with its operational staff approaching 300,000 today, must be made. The police are the guardians of the constitutional democratic regime, the security of the lives and property of the people. I've worked with the cops for many years, and they're the closest I've got. My life's been mixed up with the cops. I'm saying based on this law that, basically, the side of the police is just on the side of the state of the Republic of Turkey. Of course, it is of great importance to take protective measures against the dangers of any current that would remove the police from this important principle. The government didn't give a good test on this. Not yesterday, not today. In addition, the government continues to act naively, unaware of the fact that the fight against terrorism is an expertise and experience, despite all these years. There's no need to go into detail here, but in one sentence, it's impossible to succeed permanently in the fight against terrorism by temporarily assigning our police. In our state tradition, the principle of non-politicism in schools, mosques, and barracks applies to the police station. With that dignity, our police must be kept out of politics. If there are setbacks with the Turkish police force, it must be carried out without breaking the arrangements, without spilling them -- based on the institutional tradition that is approaching two centuries. National unity and unity strengthens the state's power and power with the existence of powerful institutions whose roots date back to the past. For him, the savings of our police force dating back to a hundred and seventy-one years should be used and should be opened up in co-ordination with other institutions. While I appreciate the improvements to our police's rights, I'd like to express that we find them inadequate. Our proposal to increase the additional indicators of the police as the National Movement Party to 3,600, and to increase their compensations, had been accepted, they would have at least been relieved of retirement. Once again, I'd like to stress that we will always be followers of the rights of our policemen, who put their lives on the line for peace and security of our nation. As I end my words, we celebrate our policemen again, we ask the great God to have mercy on all of our martyrs, we remember our mauls and veterans with gratitude.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0005par0050	I'm afraid we can't give you an extension anymore, Mr. Okutan.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0004par0051	I would like to wish health, happiness and success to our widows and orphans, and to the esteemed members of the police in their duties, to their spouses and children. With these feelings, I salute everyone with respect and respect.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0005par0053	Thank you, Mr. Reader. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Army MP Seyit Torun, who wants to talk about the problems of the Army. Here you go, Mr. Grandson.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0006par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm here to share with you the problems of the military province. I salute your grand delegation and our fellow citizens who listen to us on their screens. Before I begin my speech, I wish that all the world of Islam would celebrate the Regaip Kandili, that this blessed night would bring peace and peace and justice to our country. Dear MPs, we really call the Army the pearl of the Black Sea. It's a very important geography where green and blue embrace the army and the main source of livelihood is nuts. Honey, kiwi, and other agricultural products and livestock are coming along, and tourism is starting to grow, but so far, unfortunately, our Army has not found its rightful place, its rightful value. The nut -- we've said it all the time from this stand, and so on -- not where it deserves to be, but our manufacturer is miserable. Unfortunately, expectations have not been met this year, and it has been sold far below the value of nuts. The 2016 season is unpredictable, and the free market, unfortunately, has only been trapped between the lips of a few people, and our producer in this sense is the victim and the uncertainty of the 2016 season. Dear lawmakers, we're not in the place we deserve enough for public investment and national income. We experience the negativeness of the nut-based economy in every sense. Lower sectors, such as beekeeping, fishing and forestry, are supported by alternative industrial investments, and unfortunately, employment cannot be increased and the economy cannot be revived. We're also dealing with an intense migratory phenomenon. The army is in the second and third position as my fellow citizens in Istanbul, and the intensive migration continues. The Parliament, which we are represented by nine nations, has unfortunately fallen to five MPs, and unemployment in this sense triggers this migration day after day, and internal migration is increasing day after day. Unfortunately, we can't turn potential labor back into production, and in that sense, those roads have become ways of just looking for their bread. Our citizens have become ways of looking for work, anxious to look for work, because the investor is no longer coming to the Army. In the army, the value given to Arabs is not given to industrialists; it is not given to investors. Industrial areas are inadequate, and investors, unfortunately, do not have the necessary advantages in that sense. The road to the Black Sea-Akdeniz, the road to Ulubey-Gürgentepe-Gölköy, the road to Ünye-Akkuş-Niksar is still unfinished and turned to the story of the snake. Each year the tenders are renewed, a piece of business closes the season, and unfortunately, our road to the next year continues. In short, our problems are big, but at the point of resolution, we can't just go beyond the challenge, and in this sense, we're getting nervous every day, and we're getting poor every day. In our hospitals that are particularly far from the center, the lack of doctors is increasing every day, especially with a doctor, especially with a pediatrician, who looks at 80 or 90 patients a day, even in our great district, like Ünye, and every day our doctor's problem, unfortunately, can't be fulfilled, this need can't be met. We said our tourism potential, unfortunately, is being tried to revive winter tourism in this sense; nature's tourism is being tried to revive crossbow tourism, but there's no concrete work yet. The deception under the name Green Road has only turned into loot, and there is still no concrete development in that regard. The DOCAP has arrived, as part of the primary areas of investment, but unfortunately from the DOCAP, we didn't see the impact we wanted in our province, and our expectations are incomplete in that sense. My dear countrymen, the precious MPs; believe me, we call the army the pearl of the Black Sea, but it loses its value day by day and gets poorer every day. If we do not take precautions, we will discuss much more about the Army tomorrow. I call again to the government officials: "Please, let us bring the investments that the Army deserves, bring the army to its rightful place, because the military man has supported you, the man of the army has contributed to you... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and you provide the funds in return for it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0007par0076	Thank you, Mr. Grandson.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0008par0077	We do it a lot, a lot.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0006par0078	It's obvious what you're doing.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0007par0079	Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of lawmakers who are entering the electronic system and demanding word. Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0009par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. A survey at the Hacettepe University Centre for Migration and Political Studies revealed that when the education of refugees in Germany and Turkey was examined, the Syrian rate of university graduates in Germany was around 70 per cent and the percentage of non-rejournalists was around 5%. In Turkey, it has been announced that the proportion of non-responsive Syrians is around 50 per cent. This study eventually noted that serious problems could occur if a good education was not planned. What concrete steps have been taken regarding this matter?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0007par0085	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0010par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. According to research by the Turkish Statistical Agency, we have 7 million pensioners in our country, and each of our 100 pensioners is forced to continue to work for a living after their retirement. As the Republican People's Party, we demanded that our pensions be raised and a salary be paid on the holidays, but the AKP said we have no resources to give to our pensioners. After that, he was forced to make the arrangements. In addition to low pensions, another problem is the injustice of wages. Although they worked the same period and have invested the same amount of premiums, there are serious differences between pensions. In order to address this injustice, I would like to remind you once again that the law of principle, which our pensioners and their families have been waiting for with great hope, must be removed from the House immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0011par0091	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0012par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to address the government's authorities: We have a total of 275,578 hectares of farmland in Hatay district of TR63 Level 2. Other than some 160,000 hectares used as a field, fruit and vegetables are also produced. It is known that after the Syrian war, both tourism and trade economics have deteriorated. After a crisis with Russia, however, fruit and vegetables are known to be in a difficult position. Thus, the fruit and vegetable producers in Hatay County have been in more trouble since the Russian crisis. After the crisis with Russia, has the export of fruits and vegetables decreased in the province of Hatay? If so, what measures do you intend to take to solve the manufacturer's problem? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0013par0096	Mr. Kringle...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0014par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. We have reached Regaip Kandili, a harbinger of the blessed three months, where unity, unity, and brotherly feelings are intense. Candles are the very special nights that bring our people's hearts closer together, boosting their sense of neighborhood, kinship, brotherhood, and solidarity, bringing their spirit worlds to light. I pray that this blessed night should be the cause of our unity and unity, and that our martyred heroes may receive the mercy of the great God, and praise our veterans, as we fight against the terror that threatens the common peace of mankind.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0013par0100	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0015par0102	Mr. President, first of all, I'm celebrating the week of our police force celebrating its 171st anniversary. I congratulate our citizens on Regaip Kandili. It's quite a thought that nearly 1,000 Special Ops officers have filed a petition for a major change in the process we've been in. Why are so many cops leaving? What are their demands and demands? A lot of claims are being made about it. At the top of the allegations are reasons such as the idea that the political government is using themselves, the rest of the operations, the lack of nutrition, the lack of accountability of mistakes made in the process of resolving. In this matter, the government informs the House...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0013par0104	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0016par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to address a question of our young people who study in vocational schools, and my question to the Minister of Labor and Social Security: Our students who study in vocational upper secondary schools are insured, but this insurance is not considered a start by the SEC. Will you make an arrangement as a government regarding the situation affecting nearly 2 million people? Another question to the Minister of Health: Our young people with medical documentation and secretarial degrees have major problems in terms of employment. Health subcontracts are the most harmful to the upper secondary school of health and health university graduates. After the 2014 KPSS, the number of people assigned to this area is only 254. Our young people's efforts have been wasted. Do you have a government opinion and a plan for this? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0017par0110	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0018par0112	Today, the beginning of the three months, I wish peace and brotherhood in the world and in our country would be the beginning of a human, righteous life, celebrating our people's Regaip Kandili, and once again, I wish our martyrs a blessing. Mr. President, I've visited the village of Niğde Hemmedi. There's a watering problem in the village. However, there is a water source near the village. The villagers want the pond built here. The manufacturer says he can't produce dry agriculture and its product. In the summer and winter, he put the water in the government waterworks review program, but there was no improvement. It is said that the water stream is suitable for the pond. It is said that reaching the fields with its closed system will stop the migration. I've been a farmer's citizen for thirty years, plant, harvest, a roof, not a home. My dad took the bike. Without water, there's no land. If it doesn't rain, if it doesn't snow, we're also victims because the land doesn't produce. I'd like the authorities to build a pond here as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0019par0115	Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0020par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, am first celebrating the Regaip Kandili of all our citizens. Regarding the identity information of 50 million people who have been leaked, the prime minister and minister have said necessary measures have been taken. Since it is a matter of interest to all of us, we are curious, what are these necessary measures? We want a concrete explanation. On the other hand, the forests are being slaughtered all over Turkey to attract them, but on the other hand, poor villagers are planting crops in places where there are no trees to meet their food needs, and they are being driven here, these products are being removed. I also call on power to be sincere in the protection of forests. I don't approve of this treatment to the villagers. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0021par0122	Mr. Dursun...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0022par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I pray that our three-month Regaip Kandili, our country, our nation, the whole Islamic world, and the country, will be blessed with the good fortune of humanity. By living in the spiritual air of the three months, I pray to reach out to Ramadan, to reach out to the festival, and to live every day as a holiday. I also congratulate our police force on the anniversary of the 171st anniversary, and wish it well. By the way, in the fight against terror, for the country, for the nation, for the sake of our state, I ask God's mercy on this blessed day, for our brothers who fought and fought and were martyrs. I also pray for their success, sir, in good health and well health. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0023par0129	Mr. Responsor... Mr. Reader...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0024par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Usually in Isparta, privately, there are excellent apples growing in our counties around Eğirdir Lake. These apples were usually exported to the Middle East and Russia, such as Egypt, Jordan, Iraq and Syria. However, exports have stopped due to problems with these countries, and internal consumption is not strong enough due to the recession. Therefore, the apple maker is in a very difficult position. In addition to the cost of investment, farmers spend at least five or six years without efficiency, they sell their products and even keep them in warehouses. We expect the government to take immediate measures to support exports in order to prevent apple trees from being cut down and support the struggling apple maker, especially in the application of export incentives. I'd like to call the government on these matters. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0025par0135	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0026par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish our compatriots, Regaip Kandili, to be the cause of peace and quiet that we need most when we celebrate. As we celebrate the week of our police department, I also want to celebrate our citizens' Health Week. Mr. President, it is alleged that Şanlıurfa Metropolitan Mayor Celalettin Güvenç has rented the Assyria Hotel for the Metropolitan Municipality, and the hotel is rented at a low price. On what terms is the hotel rented by the city? After the hotel was rented to whom, for how many liras is it also rented to? It was released by the Ministry of Health on March 23, 2016, 2016/5. The local health centers are established with the lu Generalge. It states that the public health centers shall be established as additional units of the TSM. However, the regulation does not include the definition of the unit (e.g.), but is also considered an HSM (e.g. HSM) among the units.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0027par0143	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0028par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorist group has been seen in Cizre, Turkey, where terror and violence policies that have destroyed cities have failed and have not been supported by the public. He'll show up soon. By doing all kinds of damage to Kurdish people, the separatist terrorist group and political supporters, who have paid social, economic, political costs to our 80 million people, especially Kurds, now want to negotiate. There's nowhere to go with violence. The PKK and its political extensions are the sole responsibility for violence. On this occasion, I salute the Grand Assembly in peace and democracy operations for the democratic rights and security of the Kurds and 80 million of our people.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0029par0148	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0030par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. The country, which should be under the control and supervision of the state, is clearly lacking in the importance and control of the choice of all staff, especially for students, to be established, operated, and to work under the name of the foundation. In the face of the abuse of children in the homes and so-called foundations of many of our provinces, we have yet to hear a statement from the Minister of National Education, even though it is particularly the subject of a teacher on the staff of the Ministry of National Education. In particular, I would like to invite the Ministry to review the protocols of foundations such as the Ensar Foundation, which has special protocols with the Ministry of National Education and special privileges. In the past 14 years, our children's education and futures have condemned the Minister of National Education, who has not taken responsibility for leaving the ruling foundation, the association and its members parallel to the educational system, and we insist on making a statement from him.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0029par0152	Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0031par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Has the Ministry done any work on the release of personal data from 50 million of our citizens in our media over the past two days? If a study has been done, what results have been achieved? The Minister said there was an incident of the parallel structure that appeared earlier. Has there been an investigation into this? In addition, when Mr. Faruk was Minister of Steel Labor and Social Security, we received a report that 70 million people also received information from another company. There was a court order about it. Any luck with that? Did our information come into the hands of the con men? From now on, people are concerned about whether or not others are getting credit for them or whether they're getting personal information or asking for special money. What studies are being conducted on this subject? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0032par0158	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0033par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. Women's actions in Turkey have no gender. We are in a week when they want to create awareness of the equality of women and men with their slogan. In this sense, it's important for bright tomorrows to come up with an order that we can't get stuck in the barriers of gender inequality. The modern Republic of Turkey, aware that the strong society will be strong, is one of the first countries to give women the right to choose and be elected. As a matter of fact, those who wanted to take a country back first wanted to take women away from social life. But today, women's representation rates from politics to business are unfortunately not at the desired level. In many areas that she wants to move forward in her career, she is obsessed with invisible obstacles. Are there any legal incentives that are considered to be legally motivated by the awareness that democracy will only be possible with equal representation? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0034par0163	Mr. Gündüz...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0035par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'm celebrating the blessed Regaip Kandili, of the Turkish Islamic world. Twenty-nine years have passed since the coupist mentality and junta administration sentenced the late Alparslan Turkesh to 11 years in prison on 7 April 1987. The coupters have victimised millions of people with the constitutions they have prepared in the shadow of weapons, disregarding the values of the people, and dragged Turkey into darkness. The impact of these coups continues today. The constitution today is a victim of millions who ignore our nation's needs and demands and disregard this understanding of law. The mentality that punished Turk and his traveling companions on that day is now trying to continue their journey by feeding on the same constitutional ground. The existing Constitution, which has lost its original origins, is watering the mouth of coup seekers, keeping their desperate hopes alive. The new constitution is immediately in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to ensure that the alien practices that victimize society don't happen again and reflect the people's will in the best possible way.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0036par0169	Mr. Kara...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0037par0171	Mr. President, I congratulate all mankind on the Regaip Kandili, and wish for peace. I'm celebrating the 171st anniversary of our police force, and I wish it to bring peace. I wish that our people would celebrate Health Week, bring health. In recent years, drug use and substance abuse have increased in society. Anthalya AMATEM (AMAMEM) is applied for until she is seven years old. It is a sign that the government's 14-year education and health policies are bankrupt. We're calling for immediate solutions.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0036par0173	Mr. Turkmen...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0038par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I celebrate our three - month - beginning Regaip Kandili. Madam ministers, our tradesmen and artists who are directly affected by our country's economic woes are in debt. They're trying to keep their shutters open for fear of bankruptcy. They are also in trouble with the SGK bonuses, which are extremely high and difficult to pay. Do you plan to make an improvement in the higher premiums of the tradesman and the artist, and a configuration of the premium debt? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0039par0179	Mr. Shield...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0040par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. Recently, Mr. Atila Sertel, MP of the İzmir Republican People's Party, said that the request of the İzmir Metropolitan Municipality to build a solid waste disposal plant and a regular storage area has been denied. True, since one of the demands remains in the forest of conservation, the other has not been given a prerequisite because it is not wanted by the locals and the mayor, and one of these applications has been in the process of a full CED report. That's what we came up with. We, the Izmir MPs, are in favor of hand-in-hand, arm-in-arm resolving this issue. We've found five places, we've written to the Metropolitan Municipality, and if they like it, we're ready to do it hand in hand, arm in arm.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0039par0183	Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0041par0185	Mr. President, I'm celebrating Regaip Kandili, a harbinger of three months. I'm also celebrating the Police Week of our police. In recent days, we have Yasama, we have the judgement, we have the execution, we have the press, a AKP MP, Galip Ensarioğlu. Could we have a choice to oversee the AKP government? The words and the words of Burhan Kuğan, who was said to be a constitutional professor, were reflected in the words of our son, our daughter; who are we to supervise? Despite these remarks, no criticism or correction from AKP's corporate personality has been reflected in the press as far as I've seen. Does all this mean that democracy has arrived at the last stop of the tram? If so, then no one should be taken when they're called the didictator -- I'm sorry to say -- from now on. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0042par0188	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Mr. Group, I'll make a promise to the vice presidents. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0043par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. We experience a spiritual sense of compassion, blessing, and forgiveness, of reaching out to the blessed three months, and of understanding and of reaching out to his publisher, Regaip Kandili. As a nation, we are in social, economic, cultural and political crises that bleed and deepen. It is our sincerest hope and prayer that the Turkish nation will walk into the future in unity and unity, bearing physical and spiritual wounds for the next blessed days. I wish tonight and the blessed three months of our spiritual cleansing, the purity of our hearts, the strengthening of our unity and unity, the creation of a solid and realistic peace of peace, to congratulate Regaip Kandili, and to bring peace and happiness to our nation for three months. On this occasion, I wish all our martyrs mercy and immediate healing for our wounded. Again, I hereby celebrate Police Week. While celebrating, I am reminiscing with mercy and gratitude for our police martyrs and all our martyrs. The problems of our police are now unscheduled. I call upon the government to take action to resolve the problems of the police force and our police. Mr. President, we have had reports of 49 million, 611, 709 citizens' identity information being published on the Internet for several days. We understand that our citizens, who were elected voters prior to the 2011 election, are listed on the websites of the Republic of Turkey's ID numbers, parents' names, registering places, birth dates and addresses registered to the population. Another problem, however, is how this information got into someone else's hands, although the other problem is that personal data can be stolen from an entire nation. At this scale and content, it is clear that data can only be held by a state institution. Therefore, it is the government that is responsible and responsible for protecting these data, the relevant ministries. However, we see that corporate security has not been taken, nor has responsibility been taken. We're amazed at government members' statements on such a big national security issue. Mr. Prime Minister, the address of my house has been leaked. Anyone who wants to be a guest should come. He's supposed to be joking.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0044par0198	Complete, Mr. Akçay, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0043par0199	Thank you. I don't know how or where the Minister of Justice leaked, but when we look at the numbers, it says about 50 million. The Minister of Transport says this is the perception operation of the parallel structure. He says, "We don't know who shared it, they can't do anything." I'd like to point out that I condemn such informal attitudes and explanations in such a major matter. The government must immediately complete the necessary investigations and inform the Parliament of the measures to be taken. The responsibility for protecting these data is in the government. The government has not done its duty. As a result, I'd like to say again that those who fail to carry out their responsibility and duties in such a big security issue must surely answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0045par0204	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0046par0207	Thank you. Mr. President, I also wish that both your witness, your friends on the Court, your valued deputies, and our friends who work here, the Regaip Kandili, would be a blessing. Unfortunately, we have martyr news again. In the morning, one of our police officers had been killed, and we have just received a report that two more of our officers had been killed. I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs. All five of our officers are injured and I wish them a speedy recovery. I'd like to bring up two issues. Mr. Hasan Yomra of the Milliyetci Movement Party, who founded the city platform in Yomra district of Tripoli, and defended Yomra's rights, law by expressing corruption committed by the mayor of Yomra, and in that time, he established this attitude along with many of the members of the municipal council members of the National Movement Party, Yomra Platform, who have filed a criminal complaint against both the AKP General Centre and the Minister of Environment and Urbanism, who have issued an unfair concession to the family companies and have eliminated the law. There are actually people on this town platform from the Justice and Development Party, the Republican People's Party, the Ponzi scheme. But when we make this statement, especially Mr. Süleyman Soylu Bey, Minister of Labour and Social Security, who is using your name -- knowing that this is not the case -- he calls upon the mayor to break this perception; and he also tells Mr. Fatma Güldemet, Minister of Environment and Urbanism, and Mr. Prime Minister, that we have made all our administrative, legal applications and that you do your duty. A city united against corruption is Yomra, Tripoli, but unfortunately -- the Jewish mentality -- Mr. Hasan Bayur of the National Movement Party -- is being hit by 6-7 people near the mosque of Yomra Sandzaktown Dilaveroglu yesterday (April 6th) at nine o'clock. The mayor has brothers. This is what our councilman looks like. What a bully! They don't know the law in Turkey. We're giving legal address to people who don't know the law, but unfortunately, that's not all the ceberut mentality...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0047par0213	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Vural, please complete.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0046par0214	...and, unfortunately, it's pounding. Immediately, these prosecutors, everyone has to take steps in this matter. Until what? We have the judge, we have the administration, we have everything. We have the girl, we have the groom, we have the bride. We have the rule of law in Turkey. On the other hand, in the same way, unfortunately, Kütahyada is calling for a meeting of the guardians at Dumlupınar Elementary School in the central district. The AKP County President is on his way there. He's giving out his phone calls after he's given a conference on his business interests. Who's in charge of these students at my elementary school? These elementary schools are not a place of political and trade. In accordance with the governorship of the AKP district, in what capacity did you attend the elementary school...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0047par0217	Complete, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0046par0218	There's even an SMS message here, where they're going to give our parents a teaching seminar, with the mayorate of the district. The seminar, where you can deliver your proposals and demands, will be held in the meeting room on Thursday. This isn't a trade zone, it's not a political area. The fact that politicians in our schools are called to a meeting as mayor and as governor suggests that instead of being a national state, our state is transformed into a party state, rather than a nation's state. In this regard, all this rottenness must be eliminated. On this blessed Regaip Kandili occasion, I hope my criticism will lead to good. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0048par0221	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0049par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is the start of the blessed three months and the blessed Regaip Kandili. We wish that these blessed months would lead to equality, justice, freedom and peace in Turkey, the Middle East, and all over the world. Three months, as we know, includes the meaning of man's return to the Lord and discipline of his poor will. In this context, of course, what we mean or meant by it is the essence of this world. Therefore, we hope that these blessed three months in Turkey's politics are a way for those who want to gather all the ruling forces in their own hands to discipline their own souls in the peaks of power poisoning. When people discipline themselves and channel into social peace, we're sure that this blood and green stream in our country will end, and in terms of our social peace, there will be a new chance to resolve our problems. In this regard, I wish again that the blessed Regaip Kandili would bring blessings to all believers, the whole world of Islam, and all mankind. Mr. President -- as I said yesterday -- there's still a very brutal war on the people who live there, along with the curfews that are being imposed in Silopi, Sur, Yüksekova, Nusaybin and Şırnak. With the conflicting process and the loss of lives of war, every loss of life already burning our hearts every day, we continue to experience the painful consequences of this concept of war, especially for civilians. In particular, the concept of the war that AKP officials tried to legitimize over the anti-terrorism lie resulted in the loss of the lives of eight Silopian citizens whose homes were hit by tank cannons yesterday. Yesterday, when the AKP speakers spoke here, they said that those casualties were part of the fight against terrorism. In quotes, one of the people they call terrorists is Zülfiye Shalk, 70 years old and her 2-year-old grandson, Esra Shalk. Of course, AKP officials have come out and told us at what stage a two-year-old has received an ideological, organisational, military education...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0050par0230	I'll turn on your microphone, please complete, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0049par0231	Thank you, Mr. President. ... I think they'll also explain which security forces have been disabled by tank fire while they're firing guns or resisting. It's impossible to accept, we're condemning. This concept of war is already exposed every day. On the other hand, the silopi are not allowed to meet the most basic human needs in the city, so even demands for water flow in a whole city haven't been met yet. Likewise, efforts by our local governments and NGOs, which distribute hot food and aid to citizens there, are being blocked in İdil. In Cizre, white items and refrigerators were destroyed in almost all the houses entering. The white items and refrigerators have been confiscated. I mean, we're dealing with a government practice that operates a war concept that prevents even the most basic human needs.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0051par0235	Please complete, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0049par0236	There's no way to accept that. I'd like to say once again that we find it unacceptable to try to take advantage of the Islamic mentality of this concept, such as bowing down, cutting heads, and giving heads, and that we have no choice, no solution, except the will of solutions and peace. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0051par0238	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0052par0241	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it's Regaip Kandili tonight. With the three months that began with the Regaip Kandili, I would like to express my congratulations on the Regaip Kandili of the entire Islamic world. Our country has become very troubled, divided into poles, and almost unmanageable by increasing internal contradictions. Such a picture reveals once again the importance of our religious and religious beliefs, which our religion commands all mankind to do, the inner beauty, the beauty of the soul, the relationships between each other, and the important principles that burden everyone with great homework in order to ensure peace and trust in the community. At a time like this, I think we're all in a time when we have a better chance of planning the future by doing the accounting and control of the past; we need it. In such a sense, I would like to stress that on this spiritually rich night, in the Regaip Kandili, everyone should be involved in making a mandatory assessment of their own inner peace, thoughts, attitudes, and after that their argument about the future. Again, at the anniversary of the founding of our 171st anniversary of our police force, we were shaken by the news of three martyrs from Nusaybin. Really, our police are trying to deal with problems that they themselves have not created today under extraordinary circumstances, under heavy pressure from power. In a painting like this, we suffer significant losses from both our police force and our other law enforcement forces every day. Police have to be the police of a country, in order to maintain peace, security and order, and in order to protect it. We are aware of what, what heavy conditions the police are working under, and that they have been subjected to very heavy responsibility. We believe that all police have the right to improve their heavy living conditions, to raise the standards of their pension lives, to live a quality of life. When we look at all of our police, they all come from the families we call the middle of Turkey. Therefore, I would like to express to you that we celebrate Police Week and are prepared to carry out any duties as Republican People's Party on the rise of their living standards.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0053par0245	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0054par0248	Mr. President, thank you. I congratulate you on the lamp of the entire Islamic world, for the name of Regaip Kandili, marking the beginning of the three months. Basically, these kind of lamps, while these kind of sacred days seem like just one day, remind us that we have to see every day in the same morale, the same morality, the same approach, and remember that. So, not just tonight, but actually every night, I think it's really up to all of us to look at the world and to look at humanity. Religion also speaks in areas where philosophy does not speak, and answers to things that they do not answer, and as it is in our holy book, it is likely that when it is remembered for the trust given to mountains, stones, which are not accepted by them, but that which it accepts because it is unaware and ignorant, it is an area that we should be aware of as a magnificent force that transforms mankind into a place in a certain moral direction, in a certain morale, in a certain moral direction, in the same place. In that sense, I would like to point out, once again, the way he sees life, thinking about three months and basically three months each month. On the other hand, April 10, 1845, the founding anniversary of the Police Department has been one hundred and seventy-one years. During that time, our police worked for the common good for social peace and quiet. When even those who try to resolve the conflict between the two people are reminded of how difficult they are, it is also important to remember how our policemen, who have played such a role in solving social problems, were under heavy pressure and debate. Because, what we call society is not a homogeneous structure, people are different opinions, different disputes, with all of this, society, and common goodness, peace and quiet are in the hands of the law if our police are entrusted with...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0055par0255	I'll turn on your microphone, please complete it, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0054par0256	...how difficult they will be in carrying out their duties, but in order to do the common good, we must not forget that they did a noble deed along with it. In the past, those involved in social events will remember what statements they used to use about the police, but yesterday, sometimes cruel statements may have turned into a sweet memory today. Today, our police are fighting for great, selfless, social good, for the public. They're fighting terrorists in the field, and we're fighting against the community and politics, one of the tasks -- as well as the dirty propaganda of the terrorists -- is to carry out a moral, moral duty against the dirty propaganda that targets our police, and to expose this dirty propaganda of terrorism in a way that we need to expose it to the public, to the public, to the public, to the public, and to the peace of terrorism -- to the dirty propaganda, to our police, to our security forces, to achieve their goals. Of course, our police are living people, a part of society, they have problems, not only by remembering that they're not in a pragmatic, ephemeral language, but also by remembering that they're real people...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0056par0260	Please complete, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0054par0261	...in an approach that solves their problems, first the debt of our necks as a power, then the debt of the entire political institution. So we've taken a lot of steps to do it, and then we'll keep doing it. There's been talk of a problem with Tripoli Yomra, an incident, and there's information that's been sent to us. We go after anything illegal, anyone can be a client. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0057par0264	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. You've made some assessments of the context of religion and philosophy in relation to Regaip Night, and I would like to express that religion and philosophy both aim to reach out to the knowledge of existence or truth from different angles. Yeah, we're moving on. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge: Number: 83924060-724. 01-28860 7/4/2016 Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A formal visit to Pakistan from 11 April to 14 April 2016 to Pakistan was accepted at the 23/3/2016 General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey President Ismail Kahraman. Under Article 2 of the law mentioned, the names reported by political party groups to form our delegation are submitted to the information of the General Assembly. 1) Alif Doğan Türkmen Adana MP 2) Seyfettin Yilmaz Adana MP 3) Hüsnuye Erdoğan Konya MP 4) Yusuf Whiteıt Khakat MP 5) Muhammad Balta Tripoli MP It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I will have the motions read separately. The motion will be read in the full text of the motion, but the full text of the motion will be published in the Journal of Tutorak, which is more than 500 words. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, penal guards, whose number is 40,000, have to deal with many financial and spiritual problems, so they feel like second-rate civil servants. These personnel in charge of prison security are severely lacking in their rights as a result of being counted not in the safety and security services class, but in the administrative services department. In addition, the fact that the Unions of Public Servants 4688 and the Law on Public Contracts have not been granted the right to form a union for the officers of the penal execution agency is another flaw and a violation of human rights. Execution guards who work 24 hours a day and can't get overtime, who have to work on holidays and holidays, are almost like voluntary prisoners in prisons. Many of them who can't have a social life, who work in prisons outside the city, do not want to retire despite all these difficult working conditions. When they retire, the death guard, who suffered serious loss of rights, is forced to continue to work even if they earn retirement despite all these hard work conditions. For all these reasons, it is imperative that the officers of the execution have human working conditions in prisons so that they can perform their duties better. At this point, a research commission must be established within the Parliament in addition to the above-level issues, in order to identify all other existing problems and determine solution proposals. The fact that the guards of the execution have the right working conditions for human dignity will contribute to improving the psychology of the staff, preventing unwanted incidents from happening in prisons. In this regard, I propose and propose the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the current situation and problems of the execution officers, the status of their state body, and the improvement of their social and autonomy rights. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, in order to ensure the immediate outcome of the 1993 Kulp massacre case and to ensure that the unsolved cases face the risk of a statute of limitations and determine the necessary legal measures in this matter. [[Diyarbakır]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Meral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Pain]] [[Pain]] 7) The Leader of the Secret [[Ankara]] 8) Ayşe Acar Başaran [[Batman]] 9) Mehmet Ali Aslan [[Batman]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hakkari]] 22) Mehmet Emin Adıyaman [[Lug]] [[İstanbul]] The Constitution, which was adopted in 1924, ruled a singular nation line, and since then the policy of denial and assimilation has been carried out as a basic state policy. In the strictest possible way, this policy has been implemented on Kurds. The Kurdish people's objections to this policy and their struggle continued throughout the history of the republic. Instead of solving the Kurdish problem in this context with democratic methods, it was tried to be suppressed by systematic practices such as judicial executions, village evacuations and torture. Immediately after the removal of martial law, which found a legitimate basis for the 1982 coup, was lifted in 1987, a period of oppressive governance in Kurdish provinces, under the name "OHAL" and in the name of village evacuations, perpetrators, torture, and again in detention. There have been years in parallel with the increase in unsolved massacres, with the use of non-official military techniques for all of the region, especially Diyarbakir. During these more than 30 years, Turkey has been legally convicted dozens of times in the European Court of Human Rights of Human Rights for practices such as lost in custody, judicial executions, village evacuations and systematic state torture. In this context, Mehmet Salih was taken into custody from the Licik district of the village of Alaca and from Liciksu, Cellil Aydoğdu, Behcet Tutsü, Mehmet Sharif Avar, Hasan Avar, Bahrişek, Mehmet Shah Atala, Turan Demir, Abdo Yamuk, Nusretttin Indiankaya, and 11 other civilians were taken into custody. When 11 people lost in custody were blocked by their families' applications, they went to the European Court of Human Rights on May 31st 2001, and the ECHR concluded the case and sentenced Turkey to pay compensation for violating the right to live, torture ban and human freedom and security on the grounds that 11 missing persons were responsible for their deaths and did not conduct effective investigations. On November 2, 2003, exactly ten years after 11 people were forced into custody, a report was published by the Coroner's Office of Coroner's Medicine on December 30, 2005 as a result of some applications made by the IHD Diyarbakır Branch in a creek bed 500-600m away. The report found that the bones found at the scene belonged to at least 9 people, including 2 of whom could belong to Mehmet Salih, the father of the Mizbah Mediterranean Mediterranean and Behcet Tutush, Ahmet Tutush's father, 99.99 per cent. The previous trial was held on July 8, 2015, and the court has decided to ask the Chief of Staff if there is a record of the damage done to the Bolu 2nd Brigade Command archive and to be expected to be answered to several institutions before. However, in the trial hearing on December 8, 2015, the Chief of Staff wrote, "The research in the archives of relevant units does not contain information or documents regarding 1993. The 2nd Commando Brigade Command archive was also lost due to a flood in the November 12, 1999 earthquake, so no documents have been obtained." It's been said. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our city of Balıkesir is a city with important properties with natural habitats, agriculture, air, water, historical fabric. Recently, the region has been looted with mines, HESs, thermal power plants. New ones are being added to thermal power plants that are opened on the shoreband from Lapseki district of Çanakkale to Bandırma district of Balıkesir. Two more thermal plants in Çanakkale received a positive report from the environmental impact assessment (SED). At the moment, four thermal plants are operating, while the ongoing construction, the CED process is over, and the allowed number will rise to 15. One positive report will be made on the border of the Kaz Mountains National Park, the region's oxygen tank and endemic plant centre. In particular, the construction and continuing construction of thermal power plants that will use tons of coal and water would be a major disaster for the Kaz Mountains, as if the negatives of gold mines in our provinces of Çanakkale and Balıkesir were not enough. The zinc bullet facilities use the famous waters of the Kaz Mountains to extract ore. The mines, which are said to have discharged wastewaters into nearby streams, threaten not only the Kaz Mountains and local agriculture but also the Gönen Dam, which feeds on the waters of these streams. The Yenicelewa Dam, which watered the Plains of Agonia and the Plains of the Heart, also provides the drinking water of Bandirma. The mine, which has been reported by the governorate, is located five miles [8 km] from the Gönen Dam, where the Plain of Gören is watered, which gives the Bandırma drinking water. There are four bullet mines in Yenice alone in the valleys that feed the Heart Dam. With the new mine, the threat of heavy metal on water supply will grow further. This is seen as another danger to the health of the people of the region. Following Balıkesir Metropolitan Mayor Edip Uğur's confession that Balıkesir had been found in the drinking waters of 60 different settlements, arsenic was found in Newköy, Bulkçeşme and Beşiktepe neighbourhoods, as a result of analysis of water samples from different settlements and soil samples from the Plains of Altınova. The amount of arsenic in Yeniköy was 29mg/l, and the amount of arsenic in Bulukçesme was 14.4mg/l, while the amount specified at Beşiktepe was 59.15mg/l. The samples taken by local environmental health teams on November 13th also found arsenic at the well of the mining company, which established an iron enrichment plant on Karaayat, where the amount of arsenic, which was considered 10 micrograms per liter of danger limit, was over 7 micrograms. The amount of arsenic in the well water was found to be around 29 milligrams/l. In Balıkesir, the thermal power plant, which is supposed to be built in the middle of many rural areas, where thousands of people earn their living from agriculture, is disturbing the residents of the region. The thermal plant, predicted to be located 700 metres from the medical school hospital, will destroy Balıkesir by consuming 550 tons of coal a day. In the rural area of Paşaköy, which is known as an agricultural warehouse in Balıkesir province, the thermal power plant is not wanted by the locals. A new paper factory construction and CED report on the launch site of the SECA paper factory reacts with legitimate concerns from our local people, a thermal plant that consumes 550 tonnes of coal per day within about 100 metres of Paşaköy. There are 20 nearby villages around the thermal plant, which is planned to be a mile and a half [1.2 km] away from drinking water, the university and the hospital. Not only will Paşaköy be poisoned in the air, but every place and everyone on this plain will be poisoned, and Balıkesir headquarters will be affected. We would like to have the Constitution open for a comprehensive examination of the threat created in the Balıkesir region, and how to address the threat, planned to be done, by reviewing the mines, thermal plants, and by the discovery of projects that prevent agriculture fields, water resources, and sustainable governance from becoming more damaged, by increasing levels of pollution, and by the extensive investigation of the threat and how to deal with it. [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Slap]] [[İzmir]] 10) Zülfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[Zonguldak]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] 14) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] 20) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 23) Oğuz Kaan Salcı [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Eskişehir]] 26) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] 30) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] 31) Ahmet Tuncay Özkan [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Mughle]] 34) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 36) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 37) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Artvin]] 41) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] 46) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] [[Tripoli]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and predicting whether or not the parliamentary investigation will be opened at the appropriate time. There is another thesis of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which I will make read and vote for: Number: 83924060_724. 01_28759 April 6, 2016 Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Council of Ministers of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, was presented to the General Assembly under the 9th Article of Law 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to attend the meeting of the Global Parliamentary Network of Economic Development and Co-operation Organization, which will be held in Tokyo from 11 April to 14 April 2016. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Thursday 7/4/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. On April 2, 2016, Diyarbakır MP Deputy Chair Çağlar Demirel and Diyarbakır MP Idris Baluken (number 1286 in the row number) have suggested that the application that violates freedom of press freedom and freedom of expression be ended and that the proposal for the parliamentary investigation submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to determine the road map of freedom of press freedom should be submitted in the same session on Thursday (7/4/2016). On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal and against it, I will make a pledge to two members of parliament. The first speaker in his favour is Mehmet Ali Aslan, Batman MP. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0058par0489	Mr. President, I salute Mr. Court and the General Assembly. Regaip Kandili tonight. First, I wish Regaip Kandili would bring peace, peace, brotherhood to the entire Islamic world, our country, our region. On the night of the Regaip Kandili, a cyclone was decreed that prayers would not be turned down. Hopefully, we hope that the very hearts of the very innocent will become a passing cloud, not just a passing cloud, but a peace of mind for the whole world. Today, also, April 7th, World Health Day. On this occasion, we wish the people of the world and the people of our country to have a healthy and peaceful time. Again, the 428th anniversary of the death of Sinan the Architect, we ask for God's mercy and hope that his unique works will be preserved until the end of the day. Besides, it's Murdering Journalists' Day. I mean, even when I heard about a day like this, I couldn't believe it. I mean, if there was a day like that, a day like today, I was a little embarrassed and my soul was hurt. One day in another country in the world, I'm sure there isn't and there shouldn't be. Of course, today is a day in memory of Hasan Fehmi, who was shot on the Galata Bridge on April 6, 1909, and Turkey's Association of Journalists has declared it the day of the murder. From 1909 to today, 120 journalists have died in attacks within Turkey's borders. In the last place, Azadia Welat's Editor-in-Chief Rohat Aktaş was killed in basements in Turkey's southeastern Turkey. On this occasion, we ask God's mercy for him and all the murdered journalists. Of course, many journalists, such as Musa Anter, Ferhat Tepe, Nazim Babaoğlu, Hüseyin Deniz, Hafiz Akdemir, Sabattin Ali, Recai Ünal, Abdi İpekçi, Cetin Emeç, Uğur Mumcu, Ahmet Taner Barracks, Metin Gökpe were killed by armed attacks. Literature has been passed on to the records, to the law as more unknown, but the perpetrator is obvious and the instigators are obvious, yet they are not enlightened, yet they are not judged. They were supposed to be awarded the Pulitzer Reporting Award, but unfortunately, bullets were poured out. You know, there's an award given to journalists and journalists who have somehow met the truth with public opinion in the world, but I'm sorry to say that 120 of our journalists have been rewarded with bullets instead of Pulitzers. Now, I'd like to read some statistical information about freedom of the press around the world in Turkey. When I read this statistic, when I hear it, I'm really ashamed. As for why, I'll explain it later. I mean, why is it that the institution in our country, the institutions, the institutions, Europe, could be America, could be America, could be other countries, not doing research on their freedom of the press, not statistics, but other countries are doing research that's going to put us on the spot about freedom of the press in our country, and it's going to be very backward, I'll explain that. Sure, I'll read some of the reports. In its annual report, the American think tank Freedom House has shown Turkey among the countries where the press was not free in 2015 and has stressed that in the last five years, Thailand and Ecuador were the 3rd countries that have since reported that freedom of the press had lost 11 points in Turkey since 2009, adding that last year it has also dropped 3 points from 100 to 65 points in Turkey's grade. Again, we all regretfully watched: In America, on the President's trip to America, Mr. President's bodyguards have given a woman journalist unspeakable insults. He has no right to swear at a woman in that sense, regardless of who he is, and he has no right to put Turkey in this position, to put Turkey in this position. Again, according to the 2015 World Press Freedom Index Report of Journalists Without Borders, Turkey, Niger, Liberia, Zambia, Mali, and many countries are ranked 149 percent among the 180 countries. Again, a report by the International Association for Protection of Journalists said that Turkey has become an open-air prison for journalists. A woman journalist was also detained on charges of being overexcited in Diyarbakır province and was acquitted in the first hearing three or four months later. So if the journalist wasn't already overexcited, if he wasn't excited, he couldn't do his job. The law enforcement department or judicial department can't decide which state of mind the journalist is going to be in, of course it should be exciting. I'll tell you why I'm embarrassed: on February 28th, our relatives, perhaps many women from this House, complained to the cia that the authorities in Turkey did not make fair decisions due to the ban on the headscarf. This includes the wife of our 11th President, Mr. Abdullah Gul. Now let's talk about why we're embarrassed. Why can't we be judged fairly in our own country? Why can't we get freedom of the press in our own country fair and square and force us to seek justice outside? This is a situation that we, all of us, need to question, and we need to be able to ignore. As those who caused this on February 28th, if they referred our people to international judicial authorities because of these injustices, even though Turkey had no right to sully its name, today, unfortunately, and more -- soon -- the officer will appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, as in the 28 February process. I don't think any government has the right to go through this. Again, I salute you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0059par0506	Thank you, Mr. Lion. Hasan Turan, İstanbul MP against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0060par0510	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute all of our MPs on our General Assembly and our most loyal nation, who are watching us on the screen. With this occasion, of course, today's Regaip Kandili, our group's representatives, especially our group's presidents, celebrated our nation's Regaip Kandili, and I celebrate the Regaip Kandili, the beginning of three months. In the beginning, I pray that our MPs, our beloved nation who follow us, and that they may be a blessing to all of us, my great Lord. I pray that this Regaip Kandili (which is the cause of Islam) is the cause of good for all mankind and for all mankind, especially our country. Again, today, this week is Police Week. I'm celebrating this beautiful week with all our cops and their families. It is with this occasion that our soldiers and police, all of our security forces, all of our martyrs who have sacrificed their lives to defend our country and nation, and that the holy land, which Mehmet Akif. This holy land is in the hands of the martyrs. I cherish all our martyrs who have entrusted us this land of paradise. Of course, I have made a pledge against the People's Democratic Party's proposal for the so-called restricted press. First of all, I would like to point out that there is a fact that is often repeated here that both our President and our Prime Minister, both our members of the group, and all our brothers, who are talking about our party, have been specifically highlighting the fact that we have numbers from our official institutions, which is the fact that we have friends who claim to be around 61 members of the press who are currently in prison for various reasons. None of these guys are in jail for freedom of the press, for committing a crime against the press, for expressing their opinion. As far as we're concerned -- I don't want to advertise the organizations from here, from the stand of our saintly nation -- these members of the propaganda bulletins of illegal left organisations, particularly organizations, have been imprisoned for these actions, but the opposition speakers who have come here present them as if they've been imprisoned for their thinking in this country. It's a trick. In this motion, I studied, and found only one meaningful word: the famous German, which I know as Nuri Pakdil, dies first in the wars. The word of truth is that it is the only place that is right. Yeah, real truth dies in wars. The language of your propaganda -- as our group's vice president often emphasizes -- is unfortunately a language that contradicts the truth. You're turning the facts upside down and you're trying to teach people from here; you're talking. Even the language that you use so freely on the stand, turning the truth upside down, shows how vast freedom of democracy and thought is in the country, the language you use here in person. In this country, I particularly want to produce a Kurdish album, which we all know about. Since he said, "I want to produce some of the publications that you worked with as an alliance today, they fired them by describing them to Ahmet Kaya, whom I love to listen to. We are the ones who honor and honor them behind their backs, who are the leaders of our political movement in the first place. From Kemal Burkay, who lived abroad, especially in the Kurdish political movement, to Shivan Perwer, from artist to journalist to political movement leader, all of them came to this country during the AK PARTI period. The obstacles to democracy, the obstacles to freedom of thought, the laws that the AK PARTI made in the period of the AK PARTI, even when you were free to use the "v" that you were talking about here as a "w." Yet, from time to time, you say, "We fought, we took." But you didn't. We did it because we believed in democracy, freedom of thought. You know, a famous French thinker once said, "I may not agree with your thoughts, but I'll give my life if I have to if I have to." That's exactly what we did because we believed that thought. We are members of a community that has internalized that justice is the foundation of property, and we want justice for everyone, not for ourselves. However, we all know that when you want justice, the limit of thought is where someone else's freedom begins, and we both know that everyone in this country knows it, not just in our own country. Our Constitution has guaranteed freedom of thought, but as our Constitution has guaranteed, the laws of all states, all human laws, the borders of freedom of thought, public safety, public safety, state secrets, and so on. Even though you know these things, if you see them, let the bag be filled. Let it be filled. There are motions for a bit of organization propaganda. I don't speak against the motion, I reject it completely. Because in this country, even to make a motion in favor of those who come to the House of People and preach organizations... so much freedom is nowhere in the world. We all know that there are a lot of journalists and thinkers looking for a place in the world for Wikileaks to explain his documents.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0061par0519	So was Ahmet Kaya.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0060par0520	We know where they live. However, still, to come and promote an organization here, especially to be a spokesman for foreigners, in the United States -- you know -- before a visit from our President, the Westerners -- would he or she not go away with their mouths, or would something happen to him or not happen to the President of his own country by using an aberrant language? As if it wasn't enough, will the leaders of the country he went to meet or not meet? The president of a state is the honor of that nation, and all members of the nation must have that honor. What happened? They said behind our backs, there are some restrictions on freedom of thought in this country. So, what happened? It's the same thing, like a radio switch, when those sovereigns press there, some of them start talking. Brother, whose side are you on? Are you with the national unity and integrity of this country, against it? Aiding and abetting terrorist organizations to promote terrorist organizations, as journalists, as politicians, as executives of the NGO, as well as people in various coverts and disguises. We strongly condemn it. These days, especially on the day of the Regaip Kandili, we believe that in order for our nation to get closer to each other, to get rid of this disease, which is called terrorism, we need to be integrated and embraced. Let's drop the guns. The country is our country, we all live on the same ship. If this ship takes water and sinks, no one can guarantee it won't hurt or drown itself. That's why everyone needs to come to their senses. The country is the roof above us, and when the roof falls, everyone will be under this roof. Let's not flatter the imperialists, the global future. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] These are their Trojan horses, those who speak for them. In that sense, I express the rejection of the motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0062par0526	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0063par0528	Mr. Orator said during his speech that we express the facts in reverse.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0062par0529	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0063par0530	Mehmet Ali Aslan will speak because of the bullying.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0062par0531	Here you go, Mr. Lion. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0064par0535	And I, Mr. President and Mr. General Assembly, salute you again. An important journalist I've just forgotten has become a writer, and Hrant Dink has been murdered just because he's a journalist, just because he speaks the truth. But the sad thing is, unfortunately, some of the media kept a dish on him, made him a target, just as they targeted Ahmet Kaya, as they once targeted the late Necmettin Erbakan. We condemned and cursed those who were wronged at that time, and we condemn and condemn those who came to them, and those who came to them, and those who were wronged. It's the international data I just read, not the data we've prepared, so it has nothing to do with the fact that the truth is reversed. In fact, it's a fact of what kind of fantasy you're in, so when you're presented with the truth, you think you're reversed because it's against the way you shape it in your own head. The truth is the same, and the truth does not exist. Meanwhile, the blackout of İMC TV (IMC TV/İMC TV/İMC TV/İMC TV/İMC TV/İMC TV/İMC TV/İMC TV/İmc TV/İmc TV/İmc TV/İmc TV/İmc TV/İmc/TİK/Tİ/TİK/TİK/İK/İK/İK/İK/İK/İK/İK/İK/İK/İK/İ/İ/İ/İK/İK/İK/İ/İK/İK/İ/K/İK/İ/İ/K/İK/İ/İ/İ/İK/İ/İK/İK/İKİKİKİKİ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İK/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İK/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İKİKİKİKİKİ/İKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİ/İ/İKİKİ/Tİ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İKİKİKİKİKİKİ/İ/İ/İK/İ/İKİKİKİKİKİK/İ/İ/İ/İK/İK/İ/İKİ/K/İK/İK/İ/İK/İ/İ/İKKKKİ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İK/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/İ/YKİ/Y/Y/YKİ/YK/YKİKİKİ/YK/YKİ/Tİ/Y/Y/TİYKİYKİ/YK/Tİ/TİYKİ/İ/YKİ/İ/İKKKKKKİKİKİK/İ/Y Normally, it's against the law, the prosecutor can't do that. I just told you, our TVs have to go and broadcast from Hotbird in Europe. That's our shame again, so let's take it that way. And if we didn't say the letter, if we didn't say the letter, you didn't know what the letter was, and you didn't know what the letter was, it wouldn't have been taken into constitutional security, and that's how it should be known.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0065par0539	Thank you, Mr. Lion. Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0066par0541	He accused us of living in a fantasy world and not knowing, and I want to answer.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0065par0542	There's no bullying here, Mr. Turan. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Utku Çakırözer, Eskişehir MP. Here you go, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0067par0549	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group on a proposal given by Peoples' Democratic Party Group to determine a road map to end the practices that violate the freedom of the press and to determine the establishment of press freedom. I salute you all. Before I begin to speak on this occasion, I would like to share my wish to share with my fellow deputies, the blessed Regaip Kandili, to bring peace, unity, brotherhood, and peace to our country at first, but also to the Islamic world and to the whole world. Candles are especially the days when tolerance comes forward. The issue of freedom of the press, freedom of speech, is a matter of tolerance, tolerance, understanding. My dear friends, in the civilized world, the level of development of countries is measured by the level of development of their democracy as well as their economic prosperity. One of the most fundamental criteria for a pluralist, liberal democracy is the state of freedom of press and expression in that country. Unfortunately, our country has been a country that has been closely monitored by the world for some time in terms of freedom of press and expression. International trade organisations, such as journalists' professional organisations, Turkey's Journalists' Association, the Press Council, the Modern Journalists' Association, the Federation of Journalists of Turkey, not in our reports, but also in the Union of Journalists Without Borders, International Journalists' Federation, the Committee for Protection of Journalists, Turkey considers Turkey a country that alerts the press on practices. As a matter of fact, my esteemed counterpart has just shared the example of the House of Freedoms, which is no longer free in Turkey. The identification of the press in Turkey is no longer free. The identification of the press and freedom of expression that Turkey has been the fastest in the past five years and the detection of freedom of expression between 182 countries is a great shame for our country, for our democracy. The issue of freedom of the press puts us in a difficult position in the Council of Europe, where we are a member. The European Council Secretary General Jagland also said that Turkey was at the head of alarm-giving countries. It also undermines our relations with the European Union, which we are running for membership. In fact, the latest in our relations with our ally, the United States, as seen during President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's visit to Washington, is to cast a shadow on our country's reputation, to influence our report card on freedom of the press. Before we discuss what needs to be done to protect and improve freedom of the press, I would like to bring to your attention what challenges are happening in this area. Freedom of the press and the right to public information are restricted in Turkey in several ways. First of all, the journalist's safety is on its way. And I, April 6th -- yesterday -- would like to commemorate the anniversary of the death of Hasan Fehmi, the first witness of the press. Over 100 journalists and writers have been murdered in our country in the last hundred and seven years from Hasan Fehmi. I also honor and look forward to all our colleagues who were killed in the morning, from Ali to Uður Mumcu, from Metin Gökpe, to Hrant Dink. However, the risk of journalists' lives is not over. Last year, during 2015 -- as you know in reports -- three Syrian journalists were killed in our country, three Syrian journalists who were under temporary protection in our country. Again, the reports indicate that a writer was murdered. The physical attacks on newspapers and journalists continue, I'm afraid. I'd like to share the numbers: In 2015, there was an actual attack on 64 journalists, 4 media organs and 1 authors. Among them is Hurriyet journalist Ahmet Hakan, who has been attacked twice -- you know -- twice in the daily Hurriyet. The morning newspaper, Akit newspaper, in a similar manner, was shot to death by the chairman of the Star newspaper's Governing Body. Once again, I'd like to stress to the journalists that there is a lack of active investigation in the actual attacks against them, in the newspapers, in the threats against them. In all the examples I'm talking about, there's not yet been an enlightening explanation for the public. A second issue affected by the freedom of journalists, the right to public information is a key issue of investigations, detentions and arrests. Our two journalists, Erdem Gül and Can Dündar, were recently released following the Constitutional Court's decision after being arrested for over three months, but detentions against journalists are not over. In all reports, the joint assessment is that a short time ago, there were many, over 100 journalists in prisons. Then again here, the reforms in this great Parliament have been reduced by reforms, but right now the arrests of journalists in the reports of both national and international organisations, trade organisations, noted that the number of journalists detained is on the rise again. The number of journalists taken into custody increased from 72 to 120. In 2015, the number of arrested journalists increased from 22 to 31. Of course, journalists can't be judged, but they shouldn't be arrested for what they've written, drawn, thought, because the arrest of journalists, journalists, has a negative effect, not only for the journalism profession, but for all Turkey, which is: to create a deterrent effect, to create autosanctation, which is every case, every investigation, every detention exercise, every arrest, every other journalist, has a deterrent, and a deterrent effect. Therefore, we must all save Turkey together because it must be an open prison for those who think, express, and write. Another issue I would like to point out to you is the increase in the investigations and cases of insult to the President, particularly in the reports. That number has increased by 10 times more in 2015 than it did a year ago, my dear friends. 19 journalists have been sentenced to 21 years and 6 months and 19 days in prison for 28 people including two cartoonists. In 2014, the number was 2 sentences and 3 in 2013 and 1 in 2012. On this subject, I would once again like to share with you once again the report on the recent investigations of the President of Venice, which the Council of Europe's legal advisory body has shared with the public, and in accordance with the proposals made there, this clause will be removed from our Criminal Code because there is already TCK 125/2 and I would like to share with you once again that discrimination must be resolved. Another thing I'd like to point out is the rise in television blackout practices, the seizure of newspapers. It's just been mentioned, and I'd like to share with you once again that it's illegal to black out İMC TV, because there's no court order, there's no regulatory body, there's no decision from RTÜK. That's no way to make a decision. Of course, as I said in journalists, broadcast organs should always be inspected, audited, but it has to be done in accordance with the law. On October 28, 2015, the administration of the Silk Media Group was seized, you know, trustees were appointed, and then trustees were appointed to Zaman daily. You know, the Silk Media Group has been appointed trustees, but the trustee has given birth to the closure of these institutions instead of improving them, and hundreds of journalists in this media group and later in Zaman newspaper have lost their jobs. In recent years, the number of unemployed journalists has been booming because of these and similar practices. One thing I'd like to point out here is that there's been an increase in unemployment and that journalists who have been laid off can't take advantage of their most legitimate rights. Our colleagues in these trustee papers have been thrown out without even getting unemployment money, and they have been denied any compensation. And the last thing I want to stress is censorship. In our country, freedom of public information is being blocked by internet censorship, broadcast ban, accordion. See, in 2015, there were five confidentiality decrees, 10 Akreditation discriminations, 118 websites, 353 ▪Twitter Τa accounts, 399 articles and columns were banned. If you say, "What should be done?," my dear friends, it is our responsibility as lawmakers to protect the freedom of the journalists who are tasked with conveying the facts to the public in this picture that I am summing up, to ensure that they use this freedom to the end. That's why we support the establishment of the House research commission, and we want you to support it. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0068par0566	Thank you, Mr. Cacharouser. Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0069par0570	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Congrats on the Regaip Kandili of the Islamic world. I don't think it's right for a certain group to be granted immunity as part of freedom of the press these days when parliamentary immunity is being discussed. Advocating terrorism and violence can't be assessed anywhere in the world, in any legal state as part of freedom of expression and press. Blaming and threatening can't be viewed as freedom of the press and criticism. Supporting the terrorist organization, defending the terrorist organization, the freedom of expression, the freedom of the press, cannot be assessed as part of the freedom of expression, the freedom of the government, which has taken the vote of the nation's vast majority of kahir, which has formed a government with legitimate votes, and has formed a government just to keep it out of business. Selling too much, watching too much, getting too many ratings doesn't mean it's a good media organization. On the contrary, it can be a good press body with an understanding that brings public demand and wishes to the agenda, protects national interests, puts the country's national interests above all issues, meets the nation in distress, rejoicing. Freedom of the press in Turkey is under the rule of law. However, freedom of the press is not an unlimited right under the rule of law. The freedom of the press, which acts with power in one hand, who opposes law, democracy, who supports the unity of the nation, threatens or supports the person who threatens or supports the living, praises terrorism, leads to overthrowing the legitimate government, cannot be evaluated within the scope of freedom. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as of today we have a bill for the needy over 65 years of age, we have an international contract, and we are all going to discuss a bill that gives medals to the province of Şanliurfa with the joint motion of the three parties. That's why I can't agree with the group's proposal, to offer appreciation to the General Assembly, to greet you all again with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0070par0576	Thank you, Mr. Can. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The nationalist Movement Party, the Republican People's Party and the Justice and Development Party groups have joint proposals given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, I shall have them read and processed and submit them to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Thursday/4/2016 (today), we would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Levent Gök Erkan Akçay Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president of the vice president group. The number 274 Law Proposal, which was distributed under pressure, was to be placed on the agenda in the 2nd order of "The Bill of Law and Other Jobs From Commissions" and to assess the order of other tasks according to this; In the General Assembly's 7/4/2016 Thursday (today); the talks of the General Assembly of 273, 274 and 186 rows and proposals were discussed until the completion of the talks of Law Bill 186 in this merger, and the completion of the talks on Friday (April 8, 2016); It's recommended. I'll give my word to the four MPs about the proposal. His first speech on the proposal was Hadji Ahmet Özdemir, MP of Konya. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0071par0594	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you, our MPs, the entire House, and our precious citizens watching us on the screen. The time between birth and death, which restrains man, restricts man, and sets a limit of time, is that between creation and the apocalypse, he conceives in a manner similar to human life, feeds, nurtures, and gives birth to other time zones. In the past Ramadan festival, time has begun to suffer the decline of another time period in the womb, and as in human life, at the end of nine months, we are witnessing the birth of a small period of time when the great time was conceived. Three months have come to our country today as a time served and raised and prepared to bring it into the world after Ramadan Day. At the end of three months of life and three months of life, we'll see that Ramadan Day and I go back to life together. Today, Regaip Kandili, I congratulate you all on your three months and on Regaip Kandili. I'd like to end my words by simply reviewing it from the historical perspective of the Medal of Istrillal, which is given to Uruguay, Şanlıurfa. One historian called our house flooded, and we were able to save only one session, so we have 783,562 square miles of land today from 24 million square miles of land, or 28 million square miles of land. Not only historians, but even the chiefs of staff of state who left this piece of land often express their longing for what historians today refer to as "Pax Ottomana" as the peaceful eras of people living 28 million square miles [28 million km]. Because Islam also means peace, meaning peace. So there will come a time when Islam will dominate the Arabian Peninsula, when a woman of the San Naha will ride her camel alone, and travel over a thousand miles [1,000 km] to Medina, fearing only one thing: the wolves will attack the flock of sheep next to her. Other than that, he will not be concerned about the safety of his life or the safety of his property or the safety of his honor. We have lived in various times as Islamic geography, and there is no obstacle to living again, there is no problem. We've established a peace environment where it might be possible to find hope, elements, fundamental points that will shed light on today, perhaps today. As Falih Rüfkü Atay said in his work, "Zeytindütındak", he should discuss whether Jesus Christ was dead or not, but according to Christians, he lies in a church in Jerusalem, where Jesus Christ and all his Christian sects fought with each other to make it their place to clean the tomb of Jesus Christ. According to Falih Rüfkı Atay. According to the story of the Ottoman soldier, he himself took the task of cleaning up the place that was believed to be the tomb of Jesus Christ, and ironically he said: "Unfortunately, Mehmetjuk cleaned up the place which was believed to be the tomb of Jesus, and the Christians could not clean up. From such a peaceful environment, we can live again in peace, in peace, in peace; we can feed, grow, and turn a golden page back into time. I salute you all, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0072par0605	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. The second speaker on the proposal is Celal Doğan, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0073par0609	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of the four parties' joint motions to offer the Istrill Medal to Urbana. I salute your high council. Because of Regaip Kandili, as all spokesmen say, I celebrate the Regaip Kandili of the great Parliament and the Islamic world. I have another wish. We pass through the days of bloody conflicts in Iraq, near Syria, just beyond Fairfax, the most brutal civil wars ever seen in the history of mankind. I congratulate you again on your Regaip Kandili, wishing that our country would not be a Syria or an Iraq, for the sake of face-to-face water these days. In terms of law technique, I'm convinced that the bag of laws is not the right method at all, and that all political parties agree. We've seen the outcome of the cases in the bags together, and we've seen the consequences. Now, we're taking the law out of the bag, we're taking it to the Parliamentary General Assembly with a joint motion. We're wasting the Civil Code and the law, just like the money that was taken out of the bag was spent. Therefore, this procedure, which you resorted to in an effort to remove the Istrillal Medal, which our Prime Minister will take on a visit to Urbana, is not very pleasant and ethical. However, the valued rulers of the People's Democratic Party have signed this motion jointly, and therefore I am present before you, not only because it is a Stale Medal for the people of Urbans, but because it is a town of many people worthy of medals -- not to mention these errors. I also owe a debt of loyalty to Urbana. Especially our dear fellow public defenders, the Urbans, could speak themselves; Mr Baydemir, Mr Dilek, Mr Ayhan could speak, but Gaziantep is one of the cities in which the people of Urbania, citizens, live on a very large scale. I have fulfilled my loyalty as history, as a family, as a bond of Suruç, and as a debt of loyalty to them, and as a vote for their contribution, and as a speech I will give to my fellow peoples of the land of Assyria. I'd like to thank all three of them for their understanding, as well as the understanding of my friends, the Urban MP. When we call him Urfa, he is not one of the cities to be remembered only by the Battle of Salvation. In different areas, in different structures, it's one of our very precious provinces with different adjectives. For example, when we look at the unique attributes of Urbana, we see that it is equipped with a number of adjectives that are really not in any way. This is the city of the prophets. It is referred to as the fertile crescent city. Urbane is a city of legends. Urbane is a city of museums. None of this is just a plain title. Indeed, when we call it the city of the prophets, the landscape that we have seen in Urbana comes at the beginning of all the cities where all the prophets were built, and the cities that were built by Noah the Great. In short, it is a city built by the prophet Noah. It is a city in which Halil Abraham, who is the father of the monotheistic religion, also resides. It's also the city of pagan religions when you go further into history. So it seems that the multi-god religions deserve this title because they are both a city of monotheistic religions. And when we look at the artifacts there, they're not really meant to be empty. It's possible to count countless mosques from the Great Mosque, but I see that the conditions here do not allow it, so I want to cut it very short. Dear MPs, when we look at the 1916s in the salvation of Urbana, or rather when we come to 1919, the same landscape as the one that is advocating in the Middle East today takes place in those days. I mean, there's the British, the French, back in Russia, and then there's the United States of America hanging out after the outside. What does the political government have in mind, what does it say, what does it think, what does it say? If a Sykes Picot Agreement comes back on the agenda, if the region is to be designed or not, there is no opening for political power, as far as I can see. For example, the declaration of an enemy of a neighbor who had a particularly good chance of looking at the PYD and the YPG especially puts us in other trouble. And when we look at the ancient structure of the people of Urbana, we see that the Turkish people, the Turks, came here in 1040. We can clearly see that the ancient people who were in the area before 1040 were Kurds -- now it will take a long time to count their names -- are the Kurds. I mean, we shouldn't rule out this is the common ground of both Turks and Kurds, or rather, we shouldn't ignore it. As common peoples in this country, we also have to figure out how to make our peace. This is not an act of violence. This, frankly, is not something that can be solved by the words spoken by politicians these days. So I'm taking this statement from our President yesterday as an example: if necessary, we'll evacuate all areas. We'll see together that the cost of peace you'll have in the future is much more severe, even if you defeat terrorism in Turkey, with a sense of a sense of how to destroy those cities with remote fire, with a remote gun fight. Now, what do we do here, remembering when we give him the Istrillal Medal? We see the conditions of the struggle that some tribes have fought against the French. Who are the Kurdish tribes in charge? At the head of Mr. Isol's clan, at the head of the Badilite tribe of Sait Bey, at the head of the Zirkan tribe, at the head of Cudi and Sakıp Gürmen, the Baykanyeti Rüçüçüçü Öğümer, who was appointed as the head of Ömer Bey of the Sheikh clans, has maintained the fight against the French. But neither in Gaziantep, nor in Ufra, nor in Kahramanmarash, are the people who have been thrown out of the company of people who have been cast out after the armed struggle. While the struggle was taking place, Mustafa Kemal's Ankara Agreement and the British in the region, or rather, after the British had given up their rights over Syria, the French had left the area and left. I mean, every imperialist's outcome is bound to be a struggle, but it's much more politically correct. So the Ankara Agreement is an understanding that allows the region to be politically confessed. From here, it is our duty to honor and cherish the people who struggle in Urbana. As far as I'm concerned, Urbana is only the highest of medals with a medal in the Istiklal Medal, not to mention contempt, but Urbana is one of our most decorated provinces. Once deserved by his culture, deserved by his kitchen, deserved by his historical works. It's a city of the first university when you look at it, the University of Harran. The first is the University of Harran, where human blood transfusions are made. So Urbana -- it's impossible to count with just one first -- is a city with countless firsts. Let the city be sacrificed not an Instular Medal, but thousands of Istrillal Medals, but I ask the Prime Minister to go there with the promise of a Urban Medal, not to go empty-handed, but to build lasting peace and peace. And I give my regards to the High Council, hoping that this promise will not be rebutted one day from now on. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0074par0620	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. The third speaker on the proposal is Nuri Okutan, Isparta MP. Here you go, Mr. Reader.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0075par0624	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I honor and honor everyone. Today, we will discuss the motion to grant the Istrillal Medal to our Jaffa. On behalf of my party, I would like to express our opinion. Sir, Urbana isn't a city, it's not a city. It has a known history of about 12,000 years now, before the Turks arrived in Anatolia, and you know Gobeklitepe... From Gobeklitepe, we understand that archeology now has 12,000 years of history with information and comments that have reached it. From there there there is a theory that it spread to Hasankeyf, and to Çathöyük, and to Egypt, and to the whole world. It hasn't been disproved yet, and according to this theory, Urbana has become a city of fertility, a city of peace, a city of production, and a city of knowledge. And in the archeological literature, the area is called the key stone of the fertile crescent, in the case of Urban Geography, Urbana. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to show you this crescent. From the Persian Gulf to the Red Sea, there is the concept and geography of the fertile crescent, and all wars, peace and humanity -- you will dominate the Middle East, and those who dominate the Middle East will dominate the world. Notice, where its keystone is located, there is Urbana, and it has been told from time to time that life has spread from here. I've shown you this before, but I'd rather show you one more time. In fact, Urbana has an important place in our culture, because the first place of the belief in the Tehid is in Urbana, and the first place where they cry out to the world is Urbana. In fact, that's what the scholars say. ▪ Shout out to the whole world, and it is said that I am the one to announce it. It is said that he is speaking and that he is having an affair. Thus, the first belief in repentance was addressed to mankind from Urbana. In my opinion, I believe that today, as I gather around this pagan faith, Urbana has something to say to the world, to Asia Minor, to us, to the Middle East again. The only thing is, I don't consider Urbana to be a province from the provinces, I'm going to take Urbana to a special examination with its values, and hopefully, I'm going to see it as a laboratory, where a torch, peace, enlightenment, blessing, wave wave, will spread throughout the world, both our Anatolian and the rest of the world. The city of the Fish Lake and the city of the prophets concerning Urbana is always known, Mr. President, which has just been expressed, known as the land where Adam came and farmed. Again, the Lord Abraham was born there, where, behold, he cried out to the world his faith, his understanding. Now rests the Lord Ayyub in our city. And Elisha, and Shuaib the Lord, and Jacob the Holy One, and Moses the Holy One, were his shepherds in the land. That famous shepherd story, the story of the well, took place in Urbana. Yet, our faith centre, after Mecca, Medina, Jerusalem, Urbana, always says so. And I'm deeply convinced that that's true. On the other hand, both our historical figures in our heart world and our historical figures have stayed in Urbana and have settled in, and from there they have provided serious gains for our civilization's geography. In the beginning, Solomon Shah, for example. Solomon Shah lived in Urbana, and he still has relatives in the area who are connected to villages and so on. Again, Sultan II. The sword is always said to have been buried in Viranşehir. Even though his grave was never found, historians say he stayed in Viranşehir, where he lived. In our world of faith, the son of Heikh Khalidddin Ahmadin is a resident, and he is a resident in Urbana. Yet, especially one of the main cornerstones of Bektashi's faith, Dede Kartını is also a resident in Urbana, and Haci Bektas (Hajji Bektas) has a shrine in Urbana, which is said to be in a relationship between Dede Karşı and Hazlaşi Mevlana-Konevi. From there, it is said that he is lost when he is discovered, and that he is again in Hadjibektas, hugging people. So the belief in our world, and the belief in our nearby history, is a very important place for our world. Again, Sheikh Mesud, a first - ring student of Ahmet Yesevi, sleeps with the arrival of the Turks to Urbana. Again, Turkish is always spoken as a language of wisdom, known, we accept. A language of wisdom is a language of Turkish and wise poetry, and the pole of the poet Nabi de Urban, which has passed from Urbana to Aleppo, and from Aleppo to Istanbul. In this regard, he is also important. On this occasion, the anniversary of the death of the poet Nabi. So in both our cultural geography and our spiritual world, Urban is occupying an important place, but at the same time, it's a strategic center, Urbana. So no one knows this position from here, perhaps, but when you look at it from Urbana, Kerkok, Beirut, Kayseri, and Damascus are equal distances. So it's almost a few days' walk in time, and it's a distance to go by horse. On the other hand, Aleppo, Rakka, Diyarbakır and Urbana are equal distances. So Aleppo is not far away, Aleppo is no different from us; he is like a part of Urbana. There are even names of such ones as the garden of Aleppo and such as Vesair. The distance from Urbana to Baghdad is equal to the distance from Ankara. The distance from Urbana to Tehran is equal to the distance from Istanbul. In this sense, its geographical location is also in such a central location. On the other hand, as far as current issues are concerned, Urbana has 11 per cent of the waterable land in all Turkey. Uruguay produces 10 per cent of all barley and wheat produced in Turkey. It can produce 15 per cent of the corn produced in Turkey on its own. On the other hand, 40 per cent of cotton, peanuts, and lentils produced in Turkey -- the peanut known as Antep's nuts -- are produced in Urbana alone. Thus, Urbana remains, in effect, the center of production and fertility again. On the other hand, Urbana is Turkey's 7th province as of its geographical size, the 9th province as of population size, but as of the young population, it is Turkey's fourth city as of the number of students. Is he down to three, Mr. President? It has become the third province, and my president has confirmed me, and I thank him. So Urbana is not an ordinary city like this, but the most important thing is that Urban is an orchestra; all the reeds are in Urbana, all the identities can identify themselves in Urbana, live in peace, meet in common spirit, like the members of an orchestra. It's the name of a geography around the belief that differences can unite on the ground of unity. If we are to seek peace, peace, and blessings again in Turkey, we must surely consider Urbana as a laboratory. With these feelings, I salute everyone with respect and respect, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0076par0642	Thank you, Mr. Reader. Fourth speaker on the proposal, Levent Gök, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0077par0646	Mr. President, dear MPs and fellow citizens, I salute you with love and respect. First of all, today is Regaip Kandili. On this special day of the Islamic world, I repeat my wish to celebrate the Regaip Kandili of the entire Islamic world, the three months that will last with Regaip Kandili, and then, finally, with Ramadan, the peace that our country needs, the peace that is left of peace and the polarization, and the sovereignty of our country. I also wish that on the anniversary of the 171st anniversary of our 171st anniversary of the police force, all of our fellow policemen fighting heroically in our country, in a sense of human rights free of human rights, free of all terrorist activities in our country, each one of them will be celebrated in an environment in which their lives and property safety is also provided for them. Today we have three martyrs in Nusaybin. I ask God's mercy to all three of our martyrs and to all our martyrs who have lost their lives to this day, God have mercy on us, and to our nation. Dear lawmakers, dear citizens, I have taken a pledge here today on a group proposal, especially given the Istrillal Medal for our province of Urbana. In fact, as a group of vice presidents and MPs of the main opposition party, we are aware that the law to be passed the Insultional Medal to Urbana, which was referred to the commission by another law, was brought here in an unusual manner, when it was discovered that the bag of laws would not reach the end of April 11th. We are aware that we have expanded our field of work to be specific and exclusive. In doing so, we are aware that last week, at the group meeting, Mr. Prime Minister said, "I will come to Urfa to hold a meeting of the Council of Ministers on April 11th, and I will come with an Istrillal Medal." We, as the main opposition party in this environment, could not stand by and see that this commitment of the Prime Minister was not fulfilled on the anniversary of the liberation of the Istrillal Medal of Urbana, one of Turkey's most important and distinguished provinces, on April 11th. We took responsibility, demonstrated our political morality, political courtesy, and took on our historical responsibility for the delivery of the Artificial Medal, which was fitting for Urbana, to Urbans, just in the nick of time. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) While we're doing this... Congressmans, my fellow citizens, our country is going through a polarization. Every day, due to terrorist incidents, our martyrs cause traumas throughout all the provinces of our country. Political parties are tense, the most violent debates. The country needs peace, the country needs unity, the country needs order. What is the People's Party of the Republic doing in such a complex environment? If you say so, the Republican People's Party crowns its responsibility today with a very meaningful political gesture, and leaves Urbana out of all political negotiations, should the Prime Minister take the credit? Let him have it. Shall he have the party? Let him take it. Or should other parties take it? Without going to the top of it, let it be lawful for all of us, for all of the Jaffa, for all of us, in the sense of the Republic's People's Party. [[Applause from CHP and AK PARTY]] We know what we're doing because we know that in our Battle of Salvation, in the Battle of Salvation, against imperialism, Urbana has shown many heroics. With very few possibilities, with narrow circumstances, we know the courage of the Jaffa to defend their own province against the British, against the French. We know how Captain Ali Saip Bey wrote a heroic saga of the national power, which was formed with the leadership of Captain Ali Saip Bey, Kaymam Şevket Bey, Hadji Mustafa Bey, Hadji Imam Bey, Ilyas Bey, Major İhsan Bey, and how the liberation of Urbana was carried out on 11 April 1920. Urbana is a very important mortar in the establishment of our country. Today, we are aware of the contribution our country has made to our country's cultural, social, economic life, which has an important agricultural potential with nearly 2 million inhabitants. Urbans, you're not alone. We, the Republican People's Party, know your efforts and your importance, and we say that we are ready to do whatever duty we have to in the future. Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican People's Party, therefore, today, in a very meaningful medal, at the Intribution Medal, we present the Instruction Medal to the Urbans, knowing that the Prime Minister will receive his applause and that he will fulfill his commitments, knowing what we're doing here today, knowing what we're doing, knowing what we're doing, knowing that we're doing here, we're giving a decision that will never stand in the way of giving him the Instegration Medal to Urbans. With the power he has received from his history, we are aware that all contributions must be made to the social life, economic life, commercial life, and everything that he has gained from his history by bearing the honor of the Istrillal Medal, but of course, after that, of course, with the awareness that there is much to be done for Urbana. We know that Urbana was victimized in many matters. Now, it must be our duty to raise him up by contributing to this honorable stand of our Arthur, who is crowned with the Medal of Isterility. In this sense, I celebrate all the Urbans, the Virancityers, the Ceylanians, the Suruçans, the Akçakalelis, the Karakopullers, the Halfetilis, the Hilvanians, all of our citizens, all of our Halidians, all of their heroics and contributions to our republic so far. I sincerely believe that they will fulfill their commitment to Turkey and the function of keeping an important place in Turkey's mosaic. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are therefore making a political gesture, which embraces the entire community, regardless of who the Republic People's Party is involved in today's harsh political debates, and is now taking on historical political responsibility for giving the Urbans the Istolation Medal by pushing the boundaries of the commission meetings. Dear Urbans, good luck with your Istrillal Medal. We're very proud of you, and from now on, we're not going to leave you alone as the Republican People's Party, and I respectfully salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit01spe0078par0661	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Members of the law, on April 5, 2016, and on April 6, 2016, the main law proposals (2/999) were referred to the Interior Commission as the main commission. At a meeting on April 6, 2016, the Interior Commission completed its talks on the establishment of the main Kolluk Watch Commission (1/688) and on the closing of the Law Bill on Making Changes in Some Laws, and on the end of this meeting, the Justice and Development Party (2/997), (2/999) and other proposals of the main Law Proposals (2/999) were adopted by the Turkish Parliament's Council's Council and other MPs, along with a proposal for the adoption of the Second Article of the 26-leading Article of the Commission. In accordance with these motions adopted, the bet was started to discuss law proposals in the Commission, and the commission's report was unanimously adopted on the same day and submitted to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The commission's report was published by Turkey's Grand National Assembly President and distributed to MPs in 274 rows on April 6, 2016. Today, on April 7, 2016, just after 48 hours of law proposals on the number of 274 rows, the General Assembly voted on the joint proposal of three political parties to take the part of the Law Bill and Proposals of Law and Other Affairs, which came from the Commissions into the 2nd place, which was voted on with the support of all political parties in the General Assembly. These proposals were first adopted on the agenda of the Interior Commission under the 26th Amendment of the Interior Charter, and were unanimously adopted on the Commission, and then the number of rows I mentioned earlier were subject to the joint proposal of political party groups. The reason I have to make this statement is that the agreement of political parties should be taken into consideration in the implementations of Article 36 of the Civil Code. I'm bringing this to your attention. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0078par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. 1st ranked in the Court of Law to change the Law on the Monthly Connecting to Powerless and Untalented Turkish Citizens and Some Law and Law Orders, the Law Order of the Law on the Law, the Law on General Cadro and its Constitution and its Council on Alterresssment, Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The talks were completed on the entire Law Bill 273, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. I now submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1 to 16th article. Now, I'm going to make a promise to political party groups who want to speak on chapter one, and to lawmakers who are demanding word on their behalf. The first speaker, Mustafa Kalaycı, is an MP for the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kalay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0079par0018	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first part of Bill 273, which is being discussed. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, I congratulate you on your Regaip Kandili, which we will be able to understand tonight. Blessed are the three months that we shall be blessed from tomorrow, and blessed be the Lord of God. Dear MPs, the AKP government has cut off tens of thousands of disabled and elderly people's pensions. Under Law 6495 issued in 2013, the introduction of their family income, instead of their own income, led to the cutting of the pensions of many elderly and disabled persons. For a disabled and elderly pension, it is also required that the members of their household be poor. The disability pensions are cut due to the support paid to the family for home care of the disabled in need of care. As the National Movement Party, we have submitted law proposals in this period, as in the previous period, in an effort to repair the victims of elderly and disabled persons who have been cut off by the government's monthly periods and to improve their 60-year-old months and disability pensions. Instead of taking into account the income of all people in the household, we envisioned their own income and increase the monthly income. Our proposals were combined with the government bill on the commission, but our proposals were not considered. The arrangement with the 2nd and 3rd amendments of the bill is partly positive, but it is incomplete, especially not to compensate for the loss of the disabled. The AKP has blocked the disabled, blocked the disabled, cut their pensions and continues to cut them off. I ask the government, do you have any compassion? Doesn't it bother you to cut off the wages of our disabled brothers and sisters, or does it bother your conscience? You are not in need. The disabled who have been cut off from their pension or rejected have been left in need of their families this time and are dependent on other family members. This must be fixed. In determining the situation of the disabled, their family's income should be based on their own. It is one of the duties of the state to improve the rights of disabled individuals, to ensure that they have equal opportunities, to ensure that the disabled develop in line with their abilities and potential, to ensure their economic and social well-being. The obstacles to our disabled citizens must be removed, and the quality of their lives and families must be improved. The bill has no improvements in her 65-year-old monthly and disability pensions. Only the budget for his elderly pension is carried to the law by the indicator law. The disability pensions, which are now $217 in addition to the additional payment, are underprivileged by the 65-year-old month, with an obstacle rate of $326 and $489. The 65-year-old must be raised to 900 lira a month for three months, to $1,200 a month for the disabled, and to $1,800 a month for the disabled three months in need of someone else's help. In addition, the disabled must be assured that they will be put to work, participate in production, and be brought to society. For this purpose, disabled quotas must be raised to 5 per cent and appointed quickly to disabled quotas. The legal arrangement must be made for those who are born or who are disabled and who have lost at least 60 percent of their workforce before taking the job. Dear lawmakers, for months now, all our citizens, especially our driver's shop, have been suffering from traffic insurance. Excessive increases in mandatory traffic insurance premiums have driven car owners maddened, blown his insurance. In spite of intense reactions, insurance prices have increased as much as they never have, and millions have avoided getting insurance. Traffic insurance policies are almost at the same price as car insurance. The price mix-up at the insurance premiums has been victimised by a citizen of arbitrary practices and lack of control. The government has seen what's going on and has not taken the necessary measures. The Minister of Transport told the driver's shop that you're right about this insurance business, you're right about it. That's the minister's look, you're right, but you don't get it. Mr. Secretary, we're going to put this in order, we've made up our minds. But the arrangements brought in by this bill are a non-concerned condition that protects insurance companies. The Finance Minister also raises the premiums because the insurance companies are losing money. He made an assessment, in a sense, to justify the arrangements for traffic insurance in this bill. The government's ministers are really looking at it, but its arbitrary practices don't see the increased overpriced insurance premiums, so how do I cover the damage of the insurance companies from the back of the citizens, it's doing its math. This bill will not lower the premiums, it will increase even higher, it will victimise the driver's trade, causing foreclosure of taxis and filled plates. The provisions, based on the profit margin of insurance companies instead of citizens, are both unfair and against the Constitution. This must be turned wrong, an arrangement to reduce traffic insurance premiums to a reasonable level. In order to ensure that the insurance system works in a healthy and competitive manner, the control system must be activated first, preventing price confusion and arbitrary practices, instead of reducing the compensation of the victims, the cutbacks should be waived. Dear lawmakers, the 13th article of the bill provides an arrangement for the right to employment of families and veterans. The government has now extended its deadline to the end of 2018, which has not been appointed by law until the end of 2015. First, a permanent arrangement should be made to ensure that the rights holders' application is appointed within the next month, instead of making arrangements with the temporary clause. According to Law 3713, if the martyrs have more than one child, only one of them is given employment rights and others are not taken care of. All children of our beloved martyrs must be employed in state institutions without any restrictions. It is our duty as states and nations to take care of our martyrs' trusts and veterans, to protect them, and to provide them with a proper life level in society. The AKP's government has many victimizing practices that separate our veterans. There is a different application for providing all kinds of orthotypes, prosthetics, and other healing tools and equipment that veterans need by the SGK. Law 3713 is required to be unable to act without the help and support of someone else in the duties and rights disability that are not included in the Law 3713. Because of this condition, our veterans, who have lost their feet, arms, or eyes, or other organs, have lost their disability due to their injuries in the Turkish Armed Forces and the police department, cannot provide them with the oresthetics, prosthetics and other healing tools they need. They cannot afford and are victims of the price they are asked to pay. No one has the right to victimize our veterans. With that respect, the legal arrangement required by the Social Security Institution should be met with all the oresthetics, prosthetics, and other healing tools that our veterans need with a medical board report, which has been ill-treated, even under the rule of Law 3713, due to the practice or other gunshot wounds. Again, regulations brought in with Law 6495 have been improved on the monthly basis of the disability, and 25 per cent has been increased, but the senior military disability in 5434/45 has again been under the scope of this clause, and the police duty disability has unfortunately failed to benefit from this monthly increase. In addition, pensions are cut if military disability and police disability start working as civil servants. The army and police are also required to benefit from a 25 per cent salary increase and to ensure that their disability pensions are not cut. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0080par0033	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. The second speaker is Garo Paylan, İstanbul MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0081par0036	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. We're seeing another bag of laws. We've discussed a lot of ministry-related issues in the Plan and Budget Commission, and as far as we can afford, we've presented our criticisms, as far as we can tell, and now we've come to the General Assembly. I'm looking at the General Assembly, there are very important laws, so we're discussing a very important clause like Canal Istanbul, but our MPs are interested. Well, let's look at the government lines, so very interestingly, we've found a minister who's none of our business, we have a Minister of Health, a minister who has nothing to do with any matter.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0082par0038	The sentry minister.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0081par0039	There are about 12 ministries involved in the bag, and we found the minister who had nothing to do with it. And let's look at other issues, Mr. President, are there many articles here, where the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Transport, the Department of Labor, the Undersecretary, the authorities? On what level are they represented? We're going to talk here, we're going to eat throats, and I'd appreciate it if you could give me some information after my speech at the General Assembly, who's here? Who's listening? Who are we gonna tell?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0083par0040	Tell it to Kandil, and Kandil will listen! The candle listens to you. Tell it to Kandil.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0081par0041	First of all, congratulations on your Regaip Kandili. As an Istanbul MP, I'm going to divide most of my speech into Canal Istanbul, and try to give warnings to those who listen -- I hope our people are listening. Istanbul, you know, is becoming an uninhabitable city every day. I recently traveled seriously in Istanbul under the study of the party. Istanbul is about to merge with Tekirdağ (Tekirdağ) and is fully united; the areas in between are occupied by concrete piles, 30 stories, 40 stories, and not by 2 or 3 floors of buildings, as you say. Look, when the first bridge was built, Istanbul moved to 5 million, when the second bridge was built, Istanbul moved to 10 million, and now, in the verbiyatta, between the first bridge and the second bridge, completely unregistered, unscheduled, unscheduled, unscheduled, unscheduled, to 15 million people would not be happy to live. We warned when the third bridge was to be built, we said: "The lungs of Istanbul are the North Forests, let us not touch these forests." You already know, Istanbul is unable to breathe in the summers, because the forests of Istanbul are in great decline every day. Look, every morning when I'm heading north towards Ankara, if the plane rises, I always look out the window, and the MPs in Istanbul know how the third bridge breaks through the North Forest through the window of the plane, and maybe the ministers can fly by helicopter. He's got those construction towers around the roads that split for the third bridge, you know, they're going up. Buildings are being built every day, and the mechanism we call "rant" markets the land there. Well, you've marketed it, it's marketed for development, it's marketed for certain allies, of course, and it's going to be built like this. It's going to be built like this. This third bridge savings of the Northern Forest alone will carry Istanbul to 20 million if you leave it alone. Look, we're now over 14 million by official figures, and unofficially, there are about 2 million people living in Istanbul. We already have 16 million. Istanbul is moving towards 20 million. I was recently in Germany. We visited their city. We're leaving, you know, the glorious cities, one million, one and a half million, two million of the largest cities in Germany. He's got a capital, 4 million, all the rest of the cities, 2 million of them. You're looking around, forests, forests in the city. In Istanbul, we look at every green area we see as a runt. For example, look at the coast roads of Istanbul, surrounded by concrete towers, and opened to the ranta. I wish good things were done. Many-story buildings are being built to occupy Istanbul's air ducts. Now there's something new, Mr. President, in 2011, when he was Prime Minister, he promised he'd say crazy project. Ya, what's the crazy project, and then it came out, and he said to Istanbul, "I'm going to build a Canal Istanbul." Yeah, it was a really crazy project, and we could never imagine it happening, because what you call a crazy project is really a crazy project with all its dimensions and its environments and its many other dimensions, and it's supposed to be crazy. Today, however, we see that a bag of legislation, even without a basic law, without a CED report, without being submitted to our Parliament for feasibility, is being tried to pass through our Parliament. Look, first of all, I'm going to try to tell you what a disaster and madness this project is with the environment. You know, the Black Sea is a much dirtier sea than the Sea of Marmara, which flows through the tunnels of the Danube and other rivers, through the rivers, through the high currents of the Marmara. The Black Sea is an average of 30 or 40 centimeters higher than the Marmara, and there is always a flow in the frame toward the Marmara. The Sea of Marmara gets a little bit more contaminated with this current. Because of this intensity awareness with a substream, there is this flow from Marmara (Marmara) to the Black Sea. In this balance of tens of thousands of years, natural life has been formed in Marmara, and in the Black Sea. Now, you know, there are tap problems in mathematics, we've all lived in middle school and in high school: how many days, how many hours does one tap fill the pool, two taps fill it? We're going to open a second channel and we're going to cut it. And the water of the Black Sea with the upper current will flow to the Marmara, which is less salty and more polluted, and this is water that has the potential to lead to a disaster. But will the upper current form and the lower current form? We don't know. The Ministry of Environment did not provide us with a satisfactory view of this. Because there's talk of a canal about 460 meters wide, 25 meters deep. In the Bosphorus, with natural currents, in a depth, there's this substrate of depth, but in the new channel, if the substream doesn't form, the Marmara can become a dead sea within a few decades. And this crazy project is going to have 2 billion cubic metres. We said, "What's going to happen?" It was going to be filled with airports, airports now; jeans dropped, $2 billion pocketed by Genghis-Kolin-Limak. It's not gonna spill in there anyway. We will make an island with it. They said, "Mr. Undersecretary, we will take 2 billion cubic cubic metres of Haphriat, or it will either be poured out to Marmara, or to the Black Sea, and the islands will come out. There will also be rants on these islands. So, when we look at what's being projected, and we look at their models and videos -- we're watching their videos -- they're also presented around the second throat bridge as a runt project. It was presented to the right, to the left, here, in a series of skyscrapers similar to the financial center. Believe me, real estate agents say that with very good information... we received information from the minister, something he said -- don't get me wrong -- Canal Istanbul will pass through here. We're selling you a piece of land with a view of the throat. They're marketing you right now. They're marketing, Congressman; come, let's go together. They're doing those marketing right now. However, look, the project, set up as a runt project, is capable of moving Istanbul from the north to the south, to 25 million, to the north, to the south. Can you live in a city worth 25 million? Let's look at Shanghai: People travel in masks, friends. We're talking about a project that has no forest, no chance of breathing, that you're going to cut from the north to the south and salt Lake Terakos, our other lakes and all the underground waters, a massive environmental disaster. For these reasons, we recommend that Kanal Istanbul materials, waterways materials, withdraw, and we, the Istanbulians, even within the framework of a referendum, do not pass this clause without convincing them, and do not proceed with this project. Istanbul is at great risk. Look, we'll pass the oil tankers there. You say. Why would oil tankers take a free route through the Montrö Convention? In order to answer all of these questions, I'm saying that we need to look at them a lot deeper, within the framework of a bag like this, and we shouldn't be doing this in a session followed by our Minister of Health, let's withdraw these substances, people. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0084par0056	Egypt finished the second of the Suez Canal. The Suez Canal's over. The second one's over. What a vision!
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0081par0057	The Suez Canal and the Marmara are not the same, there is no current.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0085par0058	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. Mr. Paylan, the General Assembly of the Government is held in Article 62 of the Civil Code. The list of bureaucrats who came along with the government to help him is also made by the Presidential Court. Our desired MPs are always given this list. Now on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Musa Çam, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0086par0063	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you with respect and love. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on the first chapter of Bill 273. On this occasion, I celebrate the Regaip Kandili of the Muslim world, a world without war, without exploitation, without limits and without class. At the same time, we have martyrs again today. One of them is a brother of ours named Sakarya in Cüneytbey district of İzmir Menderes district. I ask for God's mercy, and for his family, and for his relatives. On March 9, we discussed the 2016 budget here. As a result of the intense criticism, Mr. Prime Minister came to this stand and said: "From now on, the bag will not come, we will not bring the law, we will not bring it, we will take care not to bring it." He said, "We will not bring a bag of laws to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey after this year, as well as one of the decisions made by the Council of Ministers today. He stayed last year, but on March 9th, not even a month ago, the word didn't even dry, and even though the Prime Minister had spoken on this stand, we are faced with a 33-point bag of law, along with the executive and executive clause. When we examine 33 articles, we see clearly and clearly that none of them have any interest in each other closely or remotely, that 18 laws have changed in total. We talked about it in the Plan and Budget Commission, and we said, "There's not a single architect in the Plan and Budget Commission, there's not a city planner, but we're talking about a historical issue like Canal Istanbul. There's no architect or city planner in the Commission, but we've discussed it, friends. Once again, we see how many wrong decisions have been made. A total of 16 articles will be discussed in this section. In 16 articles, 65-year-olds are organised. Yes, at the moment, about 600,000 of our people are taking advantage of their old age pensions, and the total is 217 lira friends. Is it possible for people over 65 to live on at $217, is that acceptable? We also said in the commission, that this should be taken out by half the minimum wage, that people can live without need of anyone. We said, "We can't accept it." We have a motion for that, too. Now, there are 60,000 people who can't take advantage of it, folks. We have 60,000 people who can't benefit from the hardship caused by the household's calculations. With this arrangement, he will also earn 60,000 people, but he will not be able to solve the real poverty problem, and he will pay 217 lira. So that's what we're going to say in the motion we're going to make. In the same way, it's the home community's calculations for the disabled. I mean, there's a handicap in the house; he's got a wife, he's got parents, he's got kids. If the entire family has more than a third of the minimum wage when the household is accounted for, then the monthly salary will be cut off and the disability salaries of tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of pensioners are currently being cut off. It's impossible to accept. The disabled also need to be committed to a salary where they can live their lives as human beings. This section, again, has regulations about traffic laws, traffic tickets, insurance. We have motions for them, and we're going to talk about them here. Again, there are regulations on water -- on Kanal Istanbul, which I will mention in a moment -- in Building Law 3194. Again, there is a key ingredient in natural gas, electricity, and water bonding to homes in disaster-risk areas. But, when you bring it in, my friends say: "You will surely bring the house you found into urban transformation." If you put it into urban transformation, electricity, water, and natural gas will be attached to your home. On the one hand, you will take these houses where people put their heads and hand them over to a number of companies, and after the arrangements there will be made, who knows, they will take you from that place where your life has been for years, and they will transfer you to other places in this building law. So, yes, we're in favor of connecting electricity, water, natural gas to buildings that are currently about 15 to 16 million fugitives in the development code, but it's true, but you're only going to convert them into urban transformation as a condition. And that's wrong to say, at some point, to throw these people into the hands of contractors. Again, 157,000 people are now being paid from the Ministry of Family and Social Policy budget. Because he can't find a job and he's under the poverty line, they're paid 157,000 people. Now, it says: "Let there be work, let there be no employer to pay his insurance premiums, let the Ministry of Family and Social Policy pay it. " Who are these 157,000 people, what are they, why are they being paid, why aren't they working? That's anonymous, guys. Friends, once again, when we evaluate the Mera Law here with İstanbul, Kanal İstanbul... friends, this map you see here is a map of Canal Istanbul and Istanbul. It's not clear where it's going to go through the throat and throat, but it's on the European side, but it's not exactly clear where it's going to be, so there's going to be a network project under the name of a channel. This is nothing more than the slaughter of Istanbul, as it has been so far, the slaughter of it all, my friends. Istanbul's population -- in the 1970s -- was built into the first bridge at 4 million; then it became 7.5 million, the second bridge was built; now the third bridge is being built; and according to the 2015 census, Istanbul has 15 million, 677,000 inhabitants. You're building the third bridge, it's not enough, you're doing a network project, guys. So, who's this network project gonna serve, what's it gonna do, guys? So, all of those routes that this network project is going to take are going to be developed in the coming days, folks. It's pronounced loud and clear. Recently, on March 16th, a real estate fair opened in Cannes, France's most important city for cinematography. Many companies attended this property fair from Turkey, including TOKI, and our Minister of Environment and Urbanism participated. Istanbul was marketed to foreigners at that real estate fair, folks. Talks and presentations have been made about various districts of Istanbul, the various districts of Bursa, the various districts of Kayseri, and the land, the beautiful places around here. Most importantly, there have been presentations in Istanbul, especially about what great opportunities the areas on which Canal İstanbul will take, and they are now being marketed. It's a betrayal of history to do that, my friends. After the victory of the Prosperity Party in 1994, then the Favourite Party in 2002, and after the winning of the local governments that continued with the AKP, Istanbul, Bursa, Kayseri, and different provinces, the beautiful Istanbul is now friends with some of the people who are being pursued. That's not true, it's a historical legacy left to us by people before us. İstanbul has not been persecuted like this since Istanbul and will not be able to see friends; the biggest betrayal of Istanbul is Canal İstanbul. Again, in this area under the Montrö Convention, countries with shores can only get warships in here with permission. If they don't have that permit, they can't get the warships in here, they can't get through this Bosphorus, but with this channel, the Montrö Convention will be drilled, destroyed, bypassed, and requested warships will be able to get in here and stay here, my friends. This is the removal of the Montrö Convention, the destruction of the republic, the removal of its gains. In short, the Canal Istanbul is beyond a crazy project, perhaps the greatest evil that can be done to the country, my friends. Because the Black Sea and the Sea of Marmara are one of Turkey's most important regions, along with the seas to the Aegean. The destruction of this place and the looting of this place, the building of plazas, skyscrapers, and the fact that some people have already been stripped of the land speculatory is the plundering of the resources and history of this country. We're not supposed to let that happen. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's a date, it's a responsibility, it's a conscientious and moral responsibility, friends, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0087par0079	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Erol Dora, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0088par0084	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the Bag Bill of 273 rows. I'd like to start by greeting the General Assembly. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, of course, I'd like to bring up a few important issues while we're at it. First of all, when we look at Anatolia, although there have been many civilizations, cultures, and different beliefs in Mesopotamia, many of these cultures today have unfortunately reached the end of Turkey. So, when we look at it, the population of the people of Ashuri Süryani, who had six thousand and seven hundred and sixty-six years of history, has fallen to a very small number in Turkey. All over Turkey -- today, of course, we don't have any statistical information -- but we can see that there's about 25,000 populations left. Of course, it is April 1st in the organic culture of the Assyrian Süryani people, which dates back from history to six, seven, six hundred and sixty-six years ago, according to the sources of Assyria and Babylon -- we in Syria call it,,,,,,,,, x) -- that is April 1st -- and also Bayram Day. This festival lasted twelve days in its time, and the love of their god and goddess Tammuz and Ishtar would accompany or guide this festival, and for twelve days, peace, brotherhood, solidarity would not even be brought to the agenda. April 1st, which has been considered common in human history since its earliest age, represents the resurrection of nature, abundance, fertility, and also freedom. Yesterday a CHP MP said: "I have a dream. I have a dream too. One day in this geography, Mesopotamia, Asia Minor, Thrace, I want all the people to live freely with their freedoms, their primary identities, their mother tongue. Many of the Assyrian Suryan live today, unfortunately, in diaspora, from Australia, America, Europe. This is our dream, one day, of the world's most important geography, where four climates exist -- all Turkish peoples, Turks, Kurds, Ashuri Süryanians, Armenians, Greeks, Lazlar, Çerces, Arabs, Alelems, Alevis, Christians, Muslims, Ezis -- everyone live freely in their own way. This is one of our greatest wishes. As you know today, it's also the Regaip Kandili, of the Muslim world. At the same time, I congratulate the entire Muslim world of Regaip Kandili. Of course, while we're talking about holidays here, unfortunately, a war is being waged in a region of Turkey today. Of course, many of our politicians, our different parties, say it's not a war, but it's obvious what war is. So in a situation where tanks, cannons are used by the military, in an environment where people, civilians, cops, soldiers, we can only call this a war. I'd like to address all political parties here, and we can't solve the Kurdish problem with security policies. Look, as many generals have said in Turkey for 30 years, there has been a low-density war, but even though more than 40,000 of our people have died, the problem has not been resolved. I'd like to address power from here once again, and I'd like to address the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). The Kurdish problem is not resolved by violence. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So I say, let's bring Parliament in, let's all political parties join hands and solve this problem with democratic politics. With these feelings, I salute you all again with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0089par0093	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Second speaker on behalf of Hikmet Hakmet, Rize MP. Here you go, Mr. Adjustment. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0090par0098	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the first chapter of the Common Law Bill 273, which is being discussed. I hereby salute you all and our beloved nation. I salute the families and veterans of the martyrs, as our martyr, Rizeli, pray for God's mercy on our fellow citizens, Yasar Yaşar, and all our martyrs. I wish to God Almighty that the Regaip Kandili, which we today understand, should bring blessings, goodness, and beauty for the world of mankind, our people, our homeland, the world of Islam, the world of mankind. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to brief you on what's being brought in with Bill 273 where we're meeting. There was the issue of the Istlal Medal for Şanlıurfa, who passed through the commission, but he just left with a joint motion, so I guess we'll see you in a little bit. In accordance with the Law on the Monthly Bondage of Weakness and Unsubstantiated Turkish Citizens, there is an arrangement in favour of elderly people who have reached 65 years of age. Law number 2022 was issued in 1976, and it provided significant benefits on the terms of that day. But after the 1990s, it became increasingly dysfunctional. As a matter of fact, in 2002, prior to the EC PARTY, our elders were paid only one month and only 22 dollars, and now it has been raised to 218 TL, so it has been increased by 10 times. You figure out how much it actually increases. With the improvements brought in, the scope of the law has been extended. Some 601,000 will benefit from this law, while about 60,000 others will be entitled to it. Now, someone has to say, with the motion, $218 is not enough, it has to be increased. That's right, it should be raised, but I have to ask, where were we in 2002 when we were doing 20 liras and 22 liras for the elderly?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0091par0102	What year, what year?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0090par0103	Some arrangements for mandatory financial responsibility insurance have been made with this arrangement again. These are the arrangements for both the service and the service areas due to current developments. You know, the new regulations that we all know as car insurance, where we're looking for solutions to what we're dealing with, and we're not comfortable with their overextreme growth. Again, with this bill, a small addition to Building Law 3194 is being made to the various articles of the law, and an important problem in implementing it is being resolved by adding the expression "the way of the water." Yes, Canal is also a necessary arrangement for Istanbul. We used to know those who opposed Canal Istanbul, until in the 1970s, they were against the first bridge, weren't they?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0091par0105	We weren't against the bridge, we were against the bridge.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0090par0106	Some setbacks have been attempted by the amendment to Social Aid and Solidarity Law 3294.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0092par0107	Tell me about Rize, leave Istanbul.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0090par0108	Again, the second part of this bill includes important arrangements to eliminate the debt of thousands of young people's general health insurance premiums. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as it turns out, the AK PARTY governments continue to keep their agenda with our nation's agenda. The nation's deputies continue to be at the people's disposal. The nation's power continues to serve the nation. We continue to fulfill our commitments to our nation before the November 1st elections, our commitments. These people deserve the best of everything. We've got a long way to go, a lot of service to our nation, a lot of work to do. Don't stop, keep the service going. Again, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0093par0112	Thank you, Mr. Adjustment. Now, we're going to do the QA on chapter one. But I see you're not the congressman who entered the system to ask questions, so I'll skip that part. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There's a motion on article 1, I'm reading the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We ask that the first article of the Common Law Bill 273 be removed from the draft text of the first article, and the bill be changed to "The Law on the Monthly Connecting to the Weak and Unsubstantiated Turkish Citizens" and proposed that the bill be changed by the Law and by some Law and Law. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Necip Tetovo Cahit Özkan Adnan Boynukara İsmail Tamer Selim Dursun Nureddin Nebati Ramadan Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0094par0128	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0093par0129	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0095par0130	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0096par0131	Motive...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0093par0132	I'm having it read. The first article of Law Bill 273 is intended to be a subject of a separate arrangement, and after this change, the title of the bill is to be adapted to the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, the first article was completely removed from the draft text. In order to avoid any confusion, we will continue with the clause numbers in the Commission text, which are part of the bill in the talks on the future clauses of the bill.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0097par0138	Mr. President, now, in the text adopted by the Plan and Budget Commission, the Commission has accepted the name of the Commission to be awarded an Instigative Medal to the province of Şanlıurfa and to make changes in the provisions of some Law and Law. Now that we've got it out of here -- we've got it out of here -- in this case, shouldn't that be the kind of change in the number of rows that should be accepted like this?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0093par0139	The motion text states that the name was changed, as well as the first article was removed, while the title of the law was changed according to the content of this proposal.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0097par0140	Yeah, what I'm trying to say is that when the number of rows is printed, it's all written down, not the title of the law. I was wondering if we could meet with a title other than the one the Plan and Budget Commission agreed to... there's no need to make any changes here.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0093par0141	Now, according to the motion adopted, the title of the bill has been changed to the Law on the Monthly Bondage of Poor and Lonely Turkish Citizens, with the draft of the Law and Law Orders for Changes, with the motion now adopted.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0098par0142	Well, actually, he did.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0093par0143	Well, actually, he did.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0098par0144	I mean, it was the Commission's decision, but anyway, here...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0093par0145	Thank you. I don't think there's any hesitation in that. Now I'm going to take action on the 2nd article. There are three motions on the 2nd article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law Bill 273 be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Erhan Usta İsmail Faruk Aksu Article 2- 1/7/1976, No. 65-Year-Old Manifest, 2022, Article 1 of the Law on the Monthly Bondage of Powerless and Lonely Turkish Citizens has been changed as follows. "At least 1- regardless of the reputation of any social security agency, employees who are entitled to a income or monthly rights or long-term insurance for long-term insurance, or the number of employees who are required to be insured in terms of long-term insurance groups (24/5/1983) will be credited by the employee's monthly coefficient (3.620) number of indicators, except those who have been paid by the Law on Social Aid and Solidarity Foundations (282828), as long as they remain in need (3.620). The average monthly income per person is more than the monthly net amount of the minimum wage, based on the sum of his income and his wife's income, no matter what the first joke is, and no one who is possible to provide more than the monthly net amount is considered in need and cannot be tied to themselves monthly. Corrections made on birthdays are not compared to 65 years old." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law Bill 273 be changed in the following way. Didem Engin Utku Çakırözer Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Bihlun Tamaylıgil Musa Çam The article 1 of the Law on the Monthly Bondage of Powerless and Lonely Turkish Citizens has been changed as follows. Article 1. - No matter what the reputation of social security agencies may be, employees of a long-term insurance policy, employees of a long-term job that needs to be insured in terms of long-term insurance, those who are able to get alimony or child support or those who are able to commit alimony, or those who are able to multiply the number of employees (500), except those who are paid by social services Act 24/5/1983, and those in accordance with the provisions of Social Services Law 2828, will be subject to a monthly basis of the employee's number (500), as long as it continues to be dependent upon by the Foundations of Social Aiding and Solidarity. From those who are included in the first joke, the average monthly income amount set for people over 16 years old, no matter what name it is, is not acceptable to those who are able to provide more than 1/2 of the monthly net amount, and they can't be held monthly. Corrections made on birthdays are not compared to 65 years old." Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 2 of the Common Law Bill 273, as follows. "The 1st Article of the Law on the Monthly Bondage of the Weak and the Lonely Turkish Citizens has been changed as follows. MADDE 1- Workers in a job that requires long-term insurance, which must be insured for long-term insurance groups, regardless of what the social security agencies may be called under a reputation, and employees in a job that is required to be covered by long-term insurance groups, those who are able to get alimony or child support, or those who are able to complete their income by the Law of Social Services, dated 24/5/1983 and under the provisions of Social Services 2828, are due to a minimum monthly salary, as long as they remain in need of social assistance and solidarity. From those involved in the first joke, the average monthly income per person, no matter what name it is, based on the sum of his income, is not acceptable to anyone who is able to provide more than minimum wage, and they cannot be tied to themselves monthly. Corrections made on birthdays are not compared to 65 years old." İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ahmet Yıldırım Mehmet Ali Aslan Altan Tan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0099par0182	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0093par0183	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0100par0184	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0093par0185	Mehmet Ali Aslan Batman MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0101par0189	Mr. President, I salute Mr. Court and the General Assembly. First, we greet the Syrian brothers who defected from the ancient city of the prophets, the Arab, Turkish, Kurdish, Turkmen, and now Syria. We also bless the winner, Bediah, who is also aurable. You know, he and his wife died of gas stove poisoning. He was 75 years old. Of course, I think it has something to do with the law. Before that, I'd like to pass on a few requests from our people, and Mr. Secretary is here. It's a matter of direct interest to the Minister of Transport, though. The villages of Kozluk, Aynromiye, Zengovieh, Kevnareza, and Bezike demand the way. Right now, there's nothing left of an asphalt road that was built years ago. The road is always mud, and this road runs ahead of all four villages. They demand a path as soon as possible. Again, people of Midyat, I'm going to show you that there's a 4km road between Estel and Midyat, inland road, in the city, in the center of the city -- to protest by the NGOs and the people -- Mr. President, you too -- they're planting a plant now. I mean, there's a plant planted in the middle of the road, and it's been going on for years. When he was Prime Minister, he visited Midyat (Midyat) on February 18, 2013, and promised the concrete asphalt of the road would be made, and it is still not built. Citizens, the public wants an immediate solution to this problem. While Mr. Health Minister is here, Midyat is now in the population of about 200,000 people, as a result of the internal and external migrations he has received. There's no oral dental hospital. There are only two dentists who serve at the state hospital, if I'm not mistaken, who even transfer a simple dental check to Mardin, an hour's drive. The districts of Idil, Gercush, Omerli around Midyat have also collected about 50,000 signatures for the construction of a dental hospital for Midyat, and the NGO wants the oral dental hospital to be made in Midyat, and they want the old hospital to be turned into a dental hospital. The Ministry of Health seems to have had a positive writing on it, but their property managers are trying to get that building transferred to the courthouse. We'd like to remind you that health is more important in this regard. In the refugee camp there, about 15,000 refugees live, and they are either sent to Batman, or Mardin, to suffer for the slightest problem of oral dental care. There used to be an arrangement for the 65-year-old salary on the part of the income collection of all family members. It's good to be reduced to the level of partners now, but we want it to be considered individual, not spouses, because each individual is responsible only for himself in front of the law, and we demand that he find the minimum wage, the elderly and us. I was referring to Bedih, the earner. Old people shouldn't be paid for electricity and water. Every year we hear that dozens, hundreds of old people die from gas poisoning from the stove. If the electricity, the water is free, they're probably not going to go up and sell it, they're going to use it to provide for themselves. In that sense, an arrangement had to be made, and if not, then it must be done from now on. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0102par0195	Thank you, Mr. Lion. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law Bill 273 be changed in the following way. Didem Engin (Stanbul) and his friends "The Article 1 of the Law on the Monthly Bondage of the Weak and Lonely Turkish Citizens has been changed as follows. Article 1 - No matter what the name of any social security agency is, employees in a job that must be insured in terms of long-term insurance arms or in terms of long-term insurance, employees in a job that is required to be covered by long-term insurance, or those who are able to commit alimony or support, or those who are able to be supported by social services laws dated 24/5/1983, will be subject to a monthly basis of the employee's number of indicators (500000), which are decided to be dependent on social assistance and solidarity Foundations, as long as the need continues. From those who are involved in the first joke, no matter what name they are, the average monthly income amount for those over 16 years of age is net amount of the monthly salary, which is more than 1/2 of which is possible to provide more than the same amount of income as those who are in need and can't be tied to themselves monthly. Corrections made on birthdays are not compared to 65 years old." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0103par0206	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0102par0207	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0104par0208	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0102par0209	Didem Engin, İstanbul MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0105par0212	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, first of all, I wish to congratulate all our people on the blessed Regaip Kandili, to bring peace and peace to our country and our world. Three more martyrs have been reported today, I'm afraid. I wish God's mercy on all of our lost martyrs and patience on their families. The bag bill, which was discussed today, is basically organizing more than one issue that is not related to each other. Although each substance requires a separate thorough study and detailed analysis, it includes a number of different issues from the pension of old age to the zoning legislation, until it reaches unregistered employment. These issues are being drawn up so that there will be no further discussion of relevant commissions, and the government, unfortunately, sees the House not as a common mind platform, but as a ratification authority. The relevant clause of Law No. 2022, which I promised, determines what criteria our citizens and disabled persons over the age of 65 will receive by. The requirement for the average income in the household to receive this month was brought in 2013 by the AKP, and then many of our elderly and disabled were cut off, and they were victims. After I became a member of parliament in the June 7th elections, my first proposal for the law was to address this victim. In support of our elderly and disabled, instead of looking at the average income in the household, I asked that the person's income be taken into account. Because the independence of individuals is essential, and it is our duty to make arrangements that allow our citizens to stand on their own feet without being dependent on anyone. The law states that the AKP is backing down from its arrangement in 2013, and that the salary of old age will now look at the income of the person and his wife, so again a wrong and incomplete arrangement is proposed. In this case, a mother who is over 65 years old, without income or social security, and if her husband is retired, she will not receive a pension due to her husband's pension, and she will continue to remain dependent on her spouse. However, international principles and contracts, such as the Old Principles of the United Nations in 1982, have stated that social states should view rights owners as independent individuals. Besides, it's a pity that it's impossible to get along with this month, with only $217 a month of old age and today's difficult economic conditions. So in our motion, we propose that this month be raised to a human level. Law 2022 organises not only the pensions of our elderly but also our disabled, but the government ignores the part about the disabled in the same law, so unfair and unfair to our disabled continue. For example, if a disabled individual is working for minimum wage, his or her mother is living in the same house as her father, it is a pity that she cannot receive the allowance. This practice also violates the United Nations Convention on Human Rights that our country signed. We have about 9 million disabled people in our country. I'd say about ▪ Because the most recent research we have is the research that the Turkish Statistical Agency did in 2010. The fact that this research has not been updated in six years shows how much the AKP values our disabled. Our disabled have many problems, such as education, infrastructure shortcomings, accessibility, employment, social participation, every year to receive reports over and over again, abuse, violence, discrimination, the challenges of our disabled children. While we need to deal with these problems over parties and address them in a broad way with economic, social, social dimensions, we need to find solutions in parliament, these problems are being avoided by a subtle approach to the bag of laws. This bag of laws is actually an indication of what kind of management and understanding power has, and it's a very clear example. Instead of creating a comprehensive solution to the problems of the people in need, it's voting politics through hope by keeping the public disabled staff free and taking regular examinations, promising elections to elections, piece by piece. However, the AKP, which has ruled our country alone for 14 years, should have already solved the problems we discussed today. To the conscience of the High Assembly, we offer the suggestions we offer so that our disabled and elderly can live as human beings. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0106par0224	Thank you, Mr. Engin. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, I'm going to read the final motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law Bill 273 be changed in the following way. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Article 2- 1/7/1976, the 65-year-old Needy, No. 2022, has been changed to Article 1 of the Law on the Monthly Bondage of Powerless and Lonely Turkish Citizens, as follows. "At least 1- regardless of the reputation of any social security agency, employees who are entitled to a income or monthly rights or long-term insurance for long-term insurance, or the number of employees who are required to be insured in terms of long-term insurance groups (24/5/1983) will be credited by the employee's monthly coefficient (3.620) number of indicators, except those who have been paid by the Law on Social Aid and Solidarity Foundations (282828), as long as they remain in need (3.620). The average monthly income per person is more than the monthly net amount of the minimum wage, based on the sum of his income and his wife's income, no matter what the first joke is, and no one who is possible to provide more than the monthly net amount is considered in need and cannot be tied to themselves monthly. Corrections made on birthdays are not compared to 65 years old." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0107par0235	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0106par0236	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0108par0237	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0106par0238	İsmail Faruk Aksu wants to talk about the motion, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Aksu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Aksu, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0109par0242	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the 2nd article of the Common Law Bill 273 rows under discussion. I salute the General Assembly. At the beginning of my speech, I congratulate you on the Regaip Kandili, which we understand. I call upon the Lord God to bring good to our nation and to the world of Islam. Our needy citizens, who are 65 years old, are the most disadvantaged in society as far as social relations and economic situations are concerned. Law 2022 contains arrangements for financial aid and support for needy, weak, and homeless Turkish citizens who are over 65 years old. According to Article 2 of the Constitution, the Republic of Turkey is a social law state. As a principle of the social law state, the state is obliged to provide income that all citizens can live on. The main objective and duties of the state are to ensure the welfare, peace and happiness of individuals and society, to remove political, economic and social barriers limiting the basic rights and freedoms of one person, to prepare the requirements for the development of one's material and spiritual existence. Again, the 61st article of the Constitution contains the state protection of the elderly. These constitutional provisions carry the government's duty to protect its elderly citizens. The average monthly income per person in that household must be less than one-third of the minimum wage in order for a 65-year-old citizen to receive a monthly allowance in the current application. Instead of the household criteria, the provision stipulates that the monthly person and his wife's total income should be less than one-third of the minimum wage. While this arrangement is positively brought in, the criteria should be individual, and the amount of payment should be higher. According to the government's proposal, all incomes must be less than one-third of the minimum wage, or $433, in order for a single living person, who is 65 years old, to receive his 65-year-old monthly salary. Therefore, a citizen with a monthly income of $434 is unable to benefit from his 65-year-old month. However, the AKP has not foreseen the same procedure in determining the basic income for the monthly salary of those in need of 65-year-old disabled citizens and the primary income for the disabled month. This is an open discrimination against disabled citizens. As the National Movement Party, June 7th and November 1st, we have envisioned the increase of the 65-year-old and disabled pension and the basis of the monthly binding of the person's income on the basis of its own income. We also made it clear that the 65-year-old pension will be raised to $300 and that the needy families who are obliged to care for the elderly will be given social care allowance to protect and care for their elderly and to provide for all physical, economic, and social needs. The number of indicators connected by our proposal to the 65-year-old month is increased to 3620. Thus, $217 is raised to $322, which is still paid to our poor citizens, who are still 65 years old. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have tried to create a perception that during their 14-year administration, the AKP government has passed all the laws on social benefits, giving them out of its own pocket. Today, however, the Law on the Monthly Bondage of the Influenced and Lonely Turkish Citizens is a law that entered into force in 1976. So who was in power in 1976, the Justice and Development Party? No, there was Süleyman Demirel. From here, I remember Mr. Demirel. When was the Fak-Fuk Fund established, as our people call it? The Law on Social Aid and Solidarity was passed in 1986. So, who was in power in 1986, the AKP? No, there was the late Ozal. I also remember the late Ozal. When was the Law issued to welcome non-paymentary citizens into treatment costs by the State by giving them a green card? It was released in 1992. So, was the AKP in power in 1992? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] No, there was the late Solomon Demirel. With these thoughts, I expect you to support our motion, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0110par0254	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There are three motions on the third article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 3 of Law 273 in the following way. Mehmet Günal Erhan Usta İsmail Faruk Aksu Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Mehmet Erdogan Kamil Aydın "MEDDE 3/7/1976-dated, 65-Year-Old Mohamed, 2022-Year-Old, The First Amendment (a) and (b) of the 2nd Article of the Law on the Monthly Connecting to the Weak and Unwanted Turkish Citizens (a) and (b) the second one, "or those who are eligible for child support" (a) were removed, (a) the second one in the article "7.230" (a) and the second one in the subsequirable" (i.e.g.g. The average monthly income of the first joke (a) and (b) of the disabled, or of the disabled near the monthly link-in-the-month by the second joke, cannot be taken into account by anyone who is able to provide more income per person than the monthly net amount of the minimum wage, regardless of the sum of income that the disabled person receives, regardless of the sum of their income. According to Article 1 of this Law, monthly ties are tied according to the first joke (a) if they prove to those who are too disabled to continue their life without the help of someone else by the health board's legislation and carry the conditions of the first joke (a) with the third joke. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the 273- rowed Bill of the Law be changed in the following way. Bült Kuşoğlu Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Musa Pine Nurettin Iron Utku Cakirözer Omar Fethi Gürer Bihlun Tamaylıgil Didem Engin Article 2 of the Law No. 3 - 2022 has been changed as follows. In addition to the fact that he is not 2 or 65 years old; A) Proves by the health board report on their disability that they can't continue without the help of another person, proving by the health board's legislation that they can't continue their life, from the 18-year-old disabled, to the extent that the number of indicators (600) will be multiplied by the employee's monthly coefficient, including those who benefit from any social security agency under a reputation or monthly right, and those who are forced to be insured by long-term insurance arm. B) Turkish citizens, who have reached 18 years of age and who have not been put into work by the Turkish Business Agency despite their demands, have been placed under any name from any social security agency, including those who benefit from their income or monthly rights and those who are required to be insured by long-term insurance arms, and those who have been deemed disabled by Social Aid and Solidarity Foundations, will be subject to a monthly basis of the number of indicators (500), as long as it continues. Turkish citizens, who have not completed the age of 18 and under the legislation of concerned health board report and under the condition that they are disabled, will receive the care of their disabled relatives, regardless of whether they are entitled to income or monthly rights, or if they are under long-term insurance, or if they have to be covered by long-term insurance, on the condition that they have to take care of children who are disabled, on the condition that they have a long-term job, on the condition that they have to take care of them, on the basis of all kinds of income that they have, on the average income per person, on the average, under the average, under the average salary, under which they will be paid by their own legislation, and on the condition that they need to care of their disabled relatives, and on the basis of their pensions, and on the basis of any kind of their pensions. The average monthly income per person receives per person's monthly income, considering the sum of the first joke (a) and (b) the disabled person's income (or the second joke) from the disabled person's monthly relative, no matter what name the disabled person's name is under, cannot be taken in need or tied to themselves by anyone who is responsible for the disabled person's care, according to the average monthly income per person, the minimum salary is worth more than 1/2 of the monthly net income." Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 3 of the Law Bill 273, which is currently in session, in the following way. İdris Baluken Ertugrul Kürkcı Mehmet Ali Aslan Article 3 - 2022 of Article 2 of the First Amendment has been changed as follows: 1. Joke b Bendi (b) In the framework of the relevant legislation, those who have proven disabled by the health report board and disabled by the 18-year-old and who have not been placed to work by the Turkish Business Agency according to their request will be subject to a monthly basis of the number of indicators (3.240) as long-term insurance rights, as long as they are under each name, with the benefit of a income or monthly rights and the exception of a long-term insurance arm, as long as they remain in need of social assistance and solidarity organizations (3.240). 2. Joke No matter what the reputation of social security agencies is, whether it's income or monthly rights from any of them, or whether it's a long-term insurance arm, or whether it's a long-term job that needs to be insured, except for the disabled children with whom they have an obligation to look at them, who are citizens of the Republic of Turkey, who have completed their 18 years of age and who are under their legislation, and who are under the scope of their disability report and who are under the condition that they are disabled, the citizens of the Republic of Turkey will be responsible for taking care of all kinds of income that is actually due to their disability. The average monthly income will be kept by the average salary, and will be dependent on social care of those who are under the condition of their disability, and will be required by the citizens of every non-responsponsories and social care. 3. Joke The first is the disabled, or the disabled, or the disabled, who, according to the second joke of the joke, will receive any actual income from a disabled person, regardless of their name, and those who are obliged to care for the disabled person's income, taking into account the average monthly salary per person's monthly net amount, will not be required and will not be available to them per month by the same amount as those who have more than 1/3. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0111par0297	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0110par0298	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0112par0299	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0110par0300	Ertuğul Kürkçı, İzmir MP, who wants to talk about the proposal that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0113par0303	Mr. President, dear friends, before we enter into the articles of the law we're discussing, I'd like to have a little discussion about the name of the law. I think we can make a motion to change that. Now, the name of this law is: The Needy, Filled 65, Law on the Monthly Bondage of Weakness and Unwanted Turkish Citizens. These all include the claim that the people who are in charge of this aid are the works of poverty, weakness, and inefficiency, and their own burden. I don't think that's politically correct. Furthermore, the understanding of human rights is behind many other laws in terms of its level. For example, we can't talk about people who are the object of this law like we don't call the disabled any more. It is very possible to refer to them as "deprived, deprived of protection and security. " We shall not speak of them like the likeness of theirs which is firmly attached to them. We're talking about people who are victimized by the state, victims of society, in terms of individual relations with society, individual relations with the state. That's why we need to return them to their dignity, not just welfare. The second point is: Here, with the change proposed in the law, it's actually done as a step forward, but primarily because of this law, the individuals who will be given social assistance are being helped, not based on their presence as individuals, but on their position within the family. However, as our friend, who was speaking as a representative of the Republican People's Party during the discussion of the previous article, underlines that both the United Nations legislation and the general understanding of human rights are present today, as everyone is on their own, as law, society and state, and he has an individual right. As we judge, punish, or reward a human being, we look at his own image, his own action, and while his current condition is being assessed, his family, his wife, his friend, his mother, his father, other people in the house, he really, really needs to be given this support in response to his social status. Finally, the people we're talking about here have lived for sixty-five years, and they've contributed to this community one way or another, and even though they've already done nothing over the course of the sixty-five years, they've given up much more right to help them if you bring together the right to citizenship that they've already been deprived of. To be more precise, in fact, every citizen today should be entitled to a citizen's income because he's a citizen. During the period when a person who has lived for sixty-five years actively joins social life, the rights of citizenship are far greater than those offered to them today, and therefore need a concept of social welfare that envisions their rights returned to them. Our proposal is that it acts on these principles in order to heal it without completely throwing away the existing law. Therefore, if I have to repeat once again, the object of this law is not those who have their weakness, their poverty, their own qualities, but those who are neglected by society, who have left them powerless. So they need to be adopted in an approach to the highest degree of social rights possible. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The law now is for charity. From this point of view, we expect you to support this motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0114par0310	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 3 of the Law Bill 273, which is currently in session, in the following way. Nurettin Demir (Mugla) and his friends Article 2 of the Law No. 3 - 2022 has been changed as follows. In addition to the fact that he is not 2 or 65 years old; A) Proves by the health board report on their disability that they can't continue without the help of another person, proving by the health board's legislation that they can't continue their life, as long as the number of Turkish citizens who have reached 18 years of age continues to be dependent on the employee's monthly coefficient (600), including those who benefit from any social security agency under a reputation or month's rights rights, and those who are forced to be insured by long-term insurance arm. B) Turkish citizens, who have reached 18 years of age and who have not been put into work by the Turkish Business Agency despite their demands, have been placed under any name from any social security agency, except for those who benefit from their income or monthly rights and employees who are required to be insured by long-term insurance arms, and will be subject to a monthly basis of the number of indicators (500), as long as they remain in need of those who are deemed disabled by Social Aid and Solidarity Foundations. Turkish citizens, who have not completed the age of 18 and under the legislation of concerned health board report and under the condition that they are disabled, will receive the care of their disabled relatives, regardless of whether they are entitled to income or monthly rights, or if they are under long-term insurance, or if they have to be covered by long-term insurance, on the condition that they have to be covered by disabled children who have a relative of their own who are disabled, on the condition that they have to take care of all kinds of income that they have earned, on the average of income per person, under the average monthly income, under the rule of a minimum salary, and on the condition that they need to care of their disabled relatives, and on the basis of any condition that they need to care of a disabled employee, are due to each person, and on the basis of every condition of their pensions. The average monthly income per person receives per person's monthly income, regardless of the amount of income received by the first joke (a) and (b) disabled persons, or by the second joke, can not be taken into account by anyone who is able to provide more than 1/2 of the monthly net amount of the minimum wage, no matter what the disabled person's name is, and no one who is able to provide more than 1/2 of the monthly income for the disabled person can be denied and cannot be tied to them on the basis of the sum of any actual income." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0115par0323	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0114par0324	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0116par0325	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0114par0326	Nurettin Demir wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0117par0329	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute our grand delegation and congratulate you, our fellow citizens, the blessed Regaip Kandili. Hopefully, it will bring peace and peace to the world in our region, in the Middle East. And I'd like to speak to the police today with the least, nothing, peace of mind, working environment. Today is -- you know -- April 7th Health Week. Health Week is especially important friends. You know, the Constitution of the World Health Organization was adopted in 1948. And especially this year, the issue of diabetes is a very important health problem in our country, as is the case throughout the world, and these issues are being carried out. My wish, of course, is that people, individuals and society are spiritually, physically and socially healthy. It's our Minister of Health who's responsible for this health and good behavior in the first degree. Our Minister of Health has given his place to our Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting, but, of course, I wish them a healthy day. We all know what a terrible place Turkey has come to in health, but today's topic is especially the bag law. It's hard to tell if it's bag law or Ayþe woman's bundle. Really, you know, Ayþe shows up in the villages, you open the bundle, it's got colorful underwear, athletes, underwear, these, these, like that. I'm afraid that's the bag law. The bag is doing really well here, but the bill is not being vetted by the experts or the lawmakers. There's a bill being discussed in the psychology of smuggling property from the fire. I'd like to talk to you about the third article. In particular, the third article contradicts the second article. While the account of neediness is being taken into account in Article 2 of the amount of the person and his wife's income, the third article is considering the average monthly income per person in the household. No matter how you look at it, it's against human rights. For people to make a living, even if they are disabled, at least half of the minimum wage in Turkey must be provided for their lives, even at the age of 65. Thus, even in Europe, they provide 60 per cent of this minimum wage level or the equivalent of this application in Turkey. The 602,000 people who receive a monthly pension receive 217 lira per month, while the 605,000 people who receive a disability pension receive 326 lira. Of course, it's obvious how low it is for people to make a living. For those who are 65 years old and disabled, their income must be based on their own income. It's the right thing to do, it's the right thing to do, it's the right thing to do in order to sustain human life. The Constitution and the social state -- this is not a social state -- should be seen as a right -- should be discussed in a proper way by the European Convention on Human Rights. The disabled have many problems: no data records for disabled women and disabled asylum seekers, no records for disabled women and disabled asylum seekers, no demands for disabled asylum seekers, abuses of disabled women and children, rapes, rapes are very common, the public Spots are not prepared for disabled, the disabled families do not have social security, they also face the risk of unemployment -- they can't afford daily care, they should be under the same conditions as veterans. Their education systems are serious. A citizen of Osmaniye called me recently. We live in Daziçi, but I have a child who can't see. We had to move to Adana. Therefore, the disability quota has to be at least 5%, and in order to meet the need to be a social state, there is the need for a radical correction of the disabled, to correct the law again. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0118par0341	Thank you, Mr. Iron. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 3 of Law 273 in the following way. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends "MEDDE 3/7/1976-dated, 65-Year-Old Mohamed, 2022-Year-Old, The First Amendment (a) and (b) of the 2nd Article of the Law on the Monthly Connecting to the Weak and Unwanted Turkish Citizens (a) and (b) the second one, "or those who are eligible for child support" (a) were removed, (a) the second one in the article "7.230" (a) and the second one in the subsequirable" (i.e.g.g. The average monthly income of the first joke (a) and (b) of the disabled, or of the disabled near the monthly link-in-the-month by the second joke, cannot be taken into account by anyone who is able to provide more income per person than the monthly net amount of the minimum wage, regardless of the sum of income that the disabled person receives, regardless of the sum of their income. According to Article 1 of this Law, the monthly bondage (a) will be tied according to the first joke (a) if they prove to those who are too disabled to continue their life without the help of someone else according to the health board's legislation and carry the conditions of the first joke (a) with the third joke. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0119par0351	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0118par0352	Government? We can't participate, sir. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Alderman of Kahramanmarash, who wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0120par0357	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to address the MHP motion on Article 3 of the Law Bill 273. On this occasion, I salute you worthy lawmakers. I congratulate you, and all of you, on the blessed Regaip Kandili, and I pray to God Almighty for good. Of course, it was our greatest wish not to face a sad news today, which began in the three months, but I have just received information that five of our security guards have been killed. Two of them are the chief of police, one is the major, and the others are our brothers in law enforcement. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, this is our desire, but we've seen that terrorism is inhuman, and it's always been that way. In no way does terror know mercy. It's very sad that we've come to this. Today, Mr. Reisicumhur says in his speech on the anniversary of the establishment of the police, let there be no stone, no head over shoulder. In the past, I wish we hadn't come to this day if terrorists had not been ignored and fed under the name of hunger and peace. I pray for patience from Allah to the five fires that fall. I pray for God's mercy to our martyrs, and for our wounded, and for a speedy healing. Dear lawmakers, the law, known as the 65-year-old month, was adopted on 1/7/1976 and was adopted on 10 July 1976. At the time the law was adopted, Turkish Prime Minister Sulejman Demirel and the government were the 39th Republic government. Today, the 64th government is at work. Twenty-five governments and forty years have passed. This law has been enforced for 40 years. I would like to say that the patent of Law 2022's elderly monthly and disability pension belongs to Mr. Süleyman Demirel, and his colleagues, the late Alparslan Türkesh, the late Necmettin Erbakan, and to the late Turan Feyzioğlu, as deputy prime minister. I wanted to remind him and let him know. Today, thousands of people who benefit from this law owe loyalty and prayer to these fine people. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy to all members of the government and to all lawmakers, especially Solomon Demirel, and to those who have gone to eternity, and to those who have remained, and to those who remain. Later, the scope of the law expanded and became what it is today. This law has helped the needy elderly since 1976 and the disabled brothers and the disabled relatives and the ministers since 1976. Dear lawmakers, the law can make changes in accordance with the changing conditions of the world and countries. Laws made with good intentions are sometimes in favour of those who are taking advantage of them, and sometimes against those who are taking advantage of them because of the failures and abuses seen in the practice. Many changes have been made in Law 2022. On 12/7/2003, Article 6495 was replaced by Article 73 (73) and caused significant setbacks in the monthly binding conditions of the elderly and disabled. Before the change was made, the income of the elderly and disabled was brought to the basis of the income of those living in the household after the change, even though the minimum salary of their income was covered by one-third of their income. When the income of those living in the same household came into play, it was difficult to take advantage of Law 2022. According to the household, if there is a pensioner or a pensioner in the household, it is virtually impossible to take advantage of 2022. Today, even though the cripples are once again on a monthly basis, our elders will be bound according to their income and income. This is an inequality and injustice. With our motion, we'll increase the monthly... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and we have foreseen the expansion of the scope here. I'm waiting for your support. On this occasion, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0121par0370	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who do not accept... the third article has been accepted. Members of the law, there are three motions on Article 4 that I will have read these proposals in the same manner, and I will process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of the Common Law Bill 273 be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Erhan Usta İsmail Faruk Aksu Kamil Aydın Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Parsak The signatures of the other motion are: Bornt Kuşoglu Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Bihlun Tamaylıgil Utku Çakırözer Ömer Fethi Gürer The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ahmet Yıldırım Altan Tan Mehmet Ali Aslan Ziya Pir I'm going to ask the Commission and the government if you agree to three proposals of the same nature. Does the Commission agree?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0122par0392	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0121par0393	Government? GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY APPLAUSE We can't participate. I'll promise the motion holders one thing at a time. The first speaker is Ziya Pir, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Pir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Pir.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0123par0400	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I congratulate all of us on Regaip Kandili, before we begin my words. Hopefully, Turkey will get closer to peace and quiet. Now, I'm going to talk to you about Article 4 of the Law Bill 273. What's this about? Compulsory traffic insurance, which means Road Roads Motor Vehicles Compulsory Financial Responsibility Insurance. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY has changed this law two years in a row, but problems and especially insurance policy prices have increased by 10 times as much. We don't quite understand the reasons for all of this. Of course, someone's come up with the numbers, here are the technical debts of the last decade. Technical concepts such as the last decade, need to be studied a little bit more. I'd like to say a few words first about what this mandatory traffic insurance is. It says: "The roads of land, motor vehicles, are a financial obligation insurance policy, an insurance policy." This insurance is very simple, it's a risk insurance policy all over the world. What are the risks in this insurance? It's already in the concept. One: there's a risk to land roads. Two: motor vehicles are at risk. Three: This is a particularly big problem in Turkey, with those who drive those motor vehicles, the risk of human beings. As someone who licks a little ink on these things, I'm having trouble grasping things, let's just say. Now, let's look at these risks. The roads -- the government and the AK PARTY -- all due respect -- we've made this much double road in Turkey, so we've organized the roads, we've made it beautiful, he says. So it has to stop being a risk, or the risk has to be minimised in these matters. So let's take these land routes out of risk, so there's no risk of that happening within 10 times the increase. Second, he says motor vehicles. Yes, I mean, it could be a risk, there used to be motor vehicles in Turkey, and then people were condemned to ride very inferior vehicles because of this famous OTV. In Europe, 20,000 euros or 20,000 euros can be taken on very strong vehicles, while in Turkey, you pay $150,000 for the same vehicle, and the citizen, of course, can't give that money to those vehicles. So, of course, it's only natural that cars are inferior, that they go down the road in curves, that they have higher risks in bad weather, in road conditions. So, there's a risk here, and the government has to rethink the EVR in the vehicles. Third risk, drivers... We're, okay, a developing country, we're negotiating with the European Union to see if we can get into the European Union. But we're looking at driver's licenses, and we need to re-examine what kind of process people go through, how they're trained, how they're trained. There are these risks in Turkey, but those risks can't cause prices to go up by a thousand percent. Our reason is already in front of you, and I'm running out of time, so I don't want to read too much. Insurance companies, sir, were doing damage. Why is a damaged company still active in Turkey? 70 per cent of the insurance companies in Turkey are foreign companies. If they're doing any damage, they should have been pulled out of Turkey by now, but they're not pulling out. So, dear friends, if you really are loyal to the principles of nationalism and domesticity, then please consider the needs of citizens, not international insurance companies. We propose and propose that the fourth article of this law be removed from the draft text. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0124par0411	Thank you, Ziya Pir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Omar Fethi Gürer, Nüğde MP, who wants to talk about the other motion. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0125par0416	Mr. President, I've been promised the 4th Amendment of the Law Bill, whose number is 273. First, I celebrate our people's Regaip Kandili. Today, however, we have one major, two chiefs of police, five martyrs. I haven't noticed anything since I became a congressman: we've discussed 130 articles of law in three and a half months in the House, but there's never been a hearing where we come in and talk about this terrorism. The Council of Ministers is empty outside the budget, some of our MPs are coming and going, a lot of lives, martyrs, pain is on the agenda of this country. When I go to the village, when the citizen asks me, I can't answer. In that sense, I believe that the House of Terror must gather together and the political parties must consider this matter together, first and foremost. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Besides, there was an earthquake today in Niğde, in our district of Çamarir. I've spoken to the director of the disaster, the Governor of the People's Party and the president of the Republican People's Party, and it's a great joy for us not to lose lives and property, but there is damage to some houses. It's not an earthquake zone, but it's a fact that homes being built for poverty and poverty are damaged in an earthquake of four magnitudes, and I say to all my countrymen, "Get over it." Now, when I read the article, first of all, I thought there was a solution to the increase in traffic insurance over the past term, and I'm glad, because I gave the Minister a written and verbal question proposal in the House. In response, Minister Mehmet Simsek said the increase was unacceptable. This had to be worked out. As we have seen a few examples in the past, a solution has been made, and the rights of citizens who will be third-degree victims have been seized, and a new discount will be made by the insurance people, but we have found that nothing we hope will benefit from our arrangements in Turkey. For example, VAT was dropped in the bait, which we thought would reflect on the consumer, the manufacturer, but to whom? Those who did business on that job gave them a discount in an instant. Now, in the section on this traffic insurance, the insurance people are demanding an arrangement that will reduce the cost of $100,000 to $20,000, which concerns the third party, which is concerned about the victim, concerning the public, so that while the insurance people increase their own profitability, they're putting the presence of a third-degree citizen in distress, which means that traffic insurance policies will drop, but it won't. So this is a law that tells insurance companies that they've been damaged, but most of them are foreign investors, and when it's known that they're not in a place where the alien is damaged, it's supposed to be evaluated, but it gives insurance companies a plus advantage. But what's important here is that last May, the Treasury Undersecretary made arrangements for insurance companies. The insurance people were annoyed because they thought they'd be victims when they got under control. They reflected it on the citizen, and 16 million car owners paid heavily for traffic insurance this time. There was a huge reaction. Our drivers came in, talked to the ministers, talked to the concerned, asked for a solution. The solution was found: the insurance adjuster will not give up its profits or gains, but it will also fall back from the third-degree insurance-related citizen's debt, which means the citizens will suffer. In the laws we're doing here, I think if we pass the materials by asking who, what, why, and why, we'll increase the benefit of our people. Other than that, we're always making the coven go back and forth to fix what it did before, outside of its function. I don't think that's true either. As you fill in the legal arrangements in the process and bring them in, you get six holes in the bag. It's falling apart with the perps again, and we're taking it out again. And I think it would be helpful to have it in proper order. Five bags passed the law, 130 in it, but the citizen's problem is not over, the worker, the peasant, the farmer, the tradesman's problem is not over. So our people didn't benefit from these substances. I salute our coven.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0126par0428	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. Mehmet Parsak, MP of Afyonkarahisar, wants to talk about the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Parsak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] MEHMET PARSAK (Afyonkarahisar) - the nation of St. Turk, the honorable MPs; at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. Blessed be the beginning of the three months and of our Regaip Kandili, that it may be a blessing to all of you in the name of our beloved nation, especially you, the honorable lawmakers. Our hearts burned again. As my predecessors say, we have five martyrs today, one major, one chief of police. And to all of our martyrs, I ask for mercy from the Lord God. Honourable MPs, I have received a pledge under Article 4 of the Law Bill 273. In summary, the wrongful verb responsibility of traffic accidents is restricted by offering to replace the 90th article of the Highway Law of 2918 with the 4th article of the bill. In the Turkish Law of Debts, the concept of the wrongful verb is obliged to compensate for the damage that harms someone else with an illegal and illegal act. It has been stated in the same law that there is also a lack of support, damage to the state of death, and compensation for bodily harms are organised by judicial and scientific convictions. In our current legislation, the damage caused by traffic accidents is based on the responsibility of unjust verbs. That's the way it is all over the world. The proposed change, however, would reduce the liability and responsibilities of insurance companies and reduce the amount of compensation our damaged citizens will receive in the losses caused by traffic accidents. In addition to universal law and basic human rights principles, it clearly violates Article 55 of the Turkish Law on Debts. I'd like to rephrase an example that was expressed in our opposition so that we could understand the subject better. When it is thought that a driver who lost control of the steering wheel on foot on foot to go to school, caused his injury by a law school, an engineering faculty student, and was accidentally subjected to permanent injury, according to our current legislation, there is a need to be determined by the courts as much as possible by the student to compensate the insurance company for the damage. However, the proposed change is not to be tried to determine the student's actual damage, the damage account is to be carried out according to the general conditions set by the Treasury and the problem arises, according to the general terms set by the Treasury, which is determined by the tax on which one person's income is paid, and if there are no taxes paid, the minimum salary is accounted for. The student's tax, whose income is not paid, will be calculated according to minimum wage, so that after his graduation from school with great difficulty, this student, for example, will receive a minimum amount of income, if he is a physician, if he becomes a lawyer, he will surely earn a lot more than his actual income, not according to the actual income of the Treasury's standards -- the minimum wage of our student -- will have to be accounted for. With that change, the government is looking forward to its eyebrows. When he's trying to drop the mandatory traffic insurance premiums, he's victimizing the citizen and signing an application like this. This provision, based on the profits of insurance companies instead of the victims of our people, is contrary to our Constitution, the Law of Turkish Debts, universal principles of law and basic human rights. In order to ensure that insurance companies operate systematically, a comprehensive control mechanism should first be run, and instead of trying to reduce the compensation of the victims, the state should give up on these premiums. There is a 22 per cent cut in this scope. If possible, he must resolve the entire cut, if not by taking it down to half, without victimizing our citizens. Honorable lawmakers, we have a motion to investigate the remarkable increase in traffic insurance premiums. We call it research, it's called no. Then, in such accidents, we face offers to change the victim's victimology. Again, the issue needs to be investigated and the traffic insurance premiums have to be dropped before our people are victimized. Given the number of vehicles in our country and more than a million traffic accidents each year on our roads, the importance of this change will once again be evident. Therefore, I ask that our motion be accepted to ensure that our citizen's problem is resolved without being victimized, and once again, I salute the High Council. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Parsak. I submit three motions of the same nature to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 4 is accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions on the 5th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 5 of the Common Law Bill 273 to the following. Bült Kuşoğlu Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Musa Çam Utku Cakirözer Bihlun Tamayligil Haydar Akar Article 5, Article 2918 is added to the first joke of Article 92 of the Law. fucking demands of compensation, which corresponds to the rights owner's own flaw. Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment, or I'm going to have the motions read. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5 of the Common Law Bill 273 be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Erhan Usta İsmail Faruk Aksu Kamil Aydın Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ahmet Yıldırım Altan Tan Mehmet Ali Aslan Erol Dora Does the Commission agree with two proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0127par0465	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0126par0466	Government? GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY APPLAUSE We can't participate. I'll make a promise to those who have motions regarding two proposals of the same nature. Erol Dora, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0128par0472	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on Article 5 of the Bag Bill 273. I salute the General Assembly. The bill that we are discussing is referred to as the Law on the Monthly Bondage of Poor and Lonely Turkish Citizens and the Law on Changes in Decisions of Some Laws and Laws. Honourable lawmakers are envisioning arrangements for the allowance of poverty, which will be linked to our citizens aged 65 and older. As we know, Turkey is a country that is far behind European standards in terms of citizens registered to the Social Security Institution. Unregistered workmanship is still common. Unsecured citizens are, of course, unable to benefit from pensions and other social rights, and are legally reduced to needy status. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, of course, when we look at the profile of our citizens today who need 65-year-old and over-needy salaries, we find that most of them are female citizens. The main reason for this is that women's registered employment in Turkey begins very late and is that there are still significant problems and abuses facing women in business. Another important reason our people need 65-year-old poverty salaries is the significant proportional changes between the rural population and the urban population over the past 30 years. Up until 30 years ago, nearly 75 per cent of Turkey's population lived in rural areas, but that rate has dropped to less than 10 per cent today. At the point of registering at the Social Security Agency for our citizens in villages who work in agriculture and animalism to retire, there is no visible incentive for the state to allow our people to be deprived of social security. Of course, in the following applications, the practice known as "the farmer BUG-KURlu" began, but it did not mean anything to previous generations. The AKP's government considers the migration of populations to cities a positive development, but this is not an improvement. Turkey has been transformed into a society that consumes society, not a society that produces society. Dear lawmakers, I also find it necessary to criticize the laws that regulate the 65-year-old poverty salary: it is unacceptable for the state to use a concept in the form of a desperate citizen when describing its citizens in the law. ▪ In modern - day social relations and communication, however, it has become a concept of the meanings that can lead to hierarchical, condescending, humiliating, insulting feelings. In this context, the concept of necessity must be removed from the matter of the law. Dear lawmakers, it is reasonable for us to pay salaries to our citizens over the age of 65 under a special pension head in the SEC. Our citizens should be granted pension status in an arrangement. Of course, the biggest problem with the 65-year-old salary is that the salary is only at $217 per month. No doubt it is impossible for a 65 - year - old person who has no property of his own to survive with no formal or regular salary. In this regard, it is imperative that the salaries of our citizens be raised to a reasonable level, a provision of human dignity. The 65-year-old salary should be at least minimum wage, as stated by our opposition party. Dear lawmakers, it is another fact that our citizens who benefit from their 65-year-old salary cannot benefit from private hospitals. You know, private hospitals only look at our citizens with green card status for a fee. The government also says that the solution to this important problem should take the necessary steps, and that this critical problem of our citizens' health must be resolved, and I salute the General Assembly with these feelings and thoughts.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0129par0484	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu, Hatay MP who wants to talk about the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0130par0488	Mr. President, dear lawmakers celebrate your three months of good news, Regaip Kandili, who is the bearer of good news before I speak, and prays for the good of the Turkish Islamic world, and I wish you all a healthy day. Also, I wish to congratulate the Veterans on their return to the province of Şanlılklal Medal to the province of Şanlıurfa. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment on behalf of the National Party for Action on the 5th Amendment in the bag bill of 273 rows. I salute your high council. This bill came in the classic form of the AKP, which I think will come in the next. When you're stuck, you try to solve problems with a bag, but you keep turning it into soup. The 5th article of the proposed legislation included the 1st amendment of Highway 2918's Article 92, the request for compensation in proportion to the rights of the owner's own flaw, non-responsibility demands, mandatory financial responsibility insurance under the framework of this bill, and the content of guarantees defined by its supplements. Thanks to the AKP, in recent years mandatory financial responsibility insurance policies and premiums have been raised at a very high rate, many of our car owners have not been able to pay their insurance costs, they have not been able to make mandatory financial responsibility insurance. I regret to inform you that the van, private public bus and movers' business -- especially as a result of a high increase in forced traffic insurance -- has not been answered on January 12th to be answered in writing by Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek as a result of an incredible increase every year. We didn't expect you to answer these questions anyway, because you don't know the problems of a citizen, you don't hear them, you don't see them, but as soon as the business starts to hurt companies, your emotions, your sensitivities, your feelings of responsibility, and you step in for a solution in the bag of law. Mr. President, esteemed MPs, this bill is clearly against the spirit and judgment of Law 2918. Adding to Article 5 to Article 5 is a violation of general principles in accordance with the principles of compensation computing. This arrangement will especially victimise the driver's tradesman, causing the foreclosure of taxis and filled plates. This provision, based on the profit margin of insurance companies instead of human, is not only fair, but contrary to the Constitution. The AKP government has shown that insurance companies are starting to lose money as a basis for these substances and, depending on this, have increased insurance premiums since last year. As a result, with this arrangement, the premiums will not drop, as AKP officials say, but will be higher. The goal is to ensure that the insurance system operates in a healthy, competitive way, but first the healthy control system must be effectively operated, and instead of reducing the compensation of the victims, the state must give up its cutbacks. In this scope, 5 per cent of the Bank Insurance and Economic Taxes, 5 per cent of the Traffic Services Development Fund cuts, 10 per cent of the treatment costs cut in traffic accidents, 2% of the insurance account cuts, so they should reduce the total 22 per cent cut to reasonable levels, and I give all of you respect.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0131par0496	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 5 of the Common Law Bill 273 to the following. Haydar Akar and his friends Article 5, Article 2918 is added to the first joke of Article 92 of the Law. fucking demands of compensation, which corresponds to the rights owner's own flaw. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0132par0505	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0131par0506	Government? We disagree. It's Haydar Akar who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0133par0511	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, we're talking about traffic insurance. Traffic insurance is indeed an event that has put society in a lot of trouble lately, which has troubled nearly 19 million, 20 million car owners. It's been on the agenda for three or four months, but the story goes back a little bit. In 2008, you privatised traffic insurance and authorized 29 insurance companies to make traffic insurance. The goal was to increase the competition, lower the prices, lower the premiums, to prevent the citizens from being victimized. But, unfortunately, there was a change of regulations in June 2015. After June 2015, the previous payment of $300 after the change of regulations increased to three times, five times, one thousand liras, two thousand liras. What did you do to people who had 17 years, 20 years of vehicles, or sold their land -- 500 square feet, one acre -- who bought a car, barely bought a vehicle, who thought that the traffic insurance you brought -- would be competitive without privatisation? That's what you've imposed. Now, after this imposition, the citizen began screaming after June. It was natural because the traffic insurance was overpriced. I had a suggestion about that, I had a law proposal, so we could combine insurance and traffic insurance. We're going to combine traffic insurance with insurance, we're going to make a new arrangement. We're going to take care of the citizen's victims." So he went to the TV cameras and gave the citizens his messages. Then Mehmet Lightning came out. There's no way we're ever going to do that. A merger like this, there's never a chance to unify the two insurancees, but we're going to make some arrangements to repair the victimization of the citizen." he said. One good cop, one bad cop. The citizens had expectations, and then when the law came to Plan Budget, they started calling us on the phone, citizens, and what rights does this law bring us? This law gives our citizens no rights whatsoever. Look, there are already 4 million vehicles from 19 million owners without insurance, but the rate of three months from June 2015 to four months from 83 per cent to 80 per cent of traffic insurance has been reduced. About 350,400,000 vehicles didn't get traffic insurance. And after that law, he's going to keep doing it because this law brings nothing to the benefit of a citizen, my friends; you're creating an expectation. There's no Finance Minister here now, Mr. Faruk Çelik. Faruk Çelik had a sweet tongue, convincing workers' unions. He was so convincing of the labor unions that it's as if all the problems in the way of organization are being raised, workers are entitled to this organization, they're securing their social rights. He's brought ten proposals here, and if you listen, even I believe sometimes, but in your history, we've had the most worker's rights revoked, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, Mehmet Simsek and Mr. Transport Minister take over this mission. Mehmet Simsek is taking on the bad police, the Minister of Transport is taking on the good police, and he's creating a perception of the citizen as if we're solving something, pretending we're solving something. I've just heard it, and a friend of mine speaking on behalf of the AKP Group says: "The MPs of the nation work for the nation." I will read the articles of this law now, adding the provisions of the nation's AKP power and AKP MPs, not for the nation, but for the capital, for the insurance companies, clearly and clearly.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0134par0517	Wrong!
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0133par0518	If you're objecting, I'm reading the clause, and look what the rightful owner says: he's giving up his claim to compensation for his own shortcomings, giving up the law that you've brought, the claims that are not at the risk of liability of the concerned, the insured, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. Why are they here? Because when the citizen was getting compensation when he crashed, the insurance company was paying his compensation, that's true, but when the citizen didn't qualify for compensation or compensation, he was suing the insurance company; the court was making the insurance companies pay extra compensation on a decision. Where's the citizen here, fellas? You're saving insurance companies. Look, in a month, two months, after this law comes out, we'll talk in three months. I'd like to apologize to you on this bench if there's any progress in favor of the citizen. Believe me, these insurance premiums are going to be in-me-y-y-y, because you're not talking about citizens, you're talking about saving these insurance companies. And please, don't bring these proposals over and over like you've done before. For the first time, let's come up with a solution in favor of the citizen. We're making motions in both the Plan and Budget Commission, but you never see it, and then you get to what we say. I'm saying don't victimize the citizen, let's make sure they travel comfortably in the cars he's barely driven, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit02spe0135par0521	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0135par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks with Bill 273. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Justice and Development Party Group Chairs Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Amasian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Aksaray MP İncinur İnceöz, Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and Tokat MP Coşkun Çakır and 28 MPs who have been ranked in the 2nd ranking position of Justice and Development Party Group Chairs of Justice and Development Party Deputy Chairs Canekli, Minister of the National Movement Party (/93), İzmir MP Oktay Öçal and Manisa MP Erkan Akçay; Şan Akçajer and 28 MPs; Şançalı Elector of the Constitutional Party's Order for the Peace Medal (2/995). Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 274 rows. Now I'm going to meet your demands on the entire proposal. I see there are no political party groups or members of lawmakers demanding word on the whole proposal. I'm going to do a QA on all of them, but I see there's no congressman entering the system for questions. In that case, the talks on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. SANLIURFA YOLOGICAL ACTIVITY OF BLOOD MADDE 1- (1) Sanlıurfa, who was a great hero during his epic battle for Salvation, was awarded the Instruction Medal Celal Doğan, İstanbul MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on Article 1. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0136par0021	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish that the law proposal for the Handover of the Istrillal Medal would be a blessing and a blessing. We just presented our views on the proposal of the law. 1919-2016, ninety-seven years later, we're giving an Isolation Medal to a city. It comes to my mind as another measure of how hard we work, how sensitive we are to matters. If we're giving the Artificial Medal in ninety-seven years, there's certainly no one left or there's no one left to enjoy it today. 1919, I'm telling you the date they left, I'm saying April 11th, so I'm telling you, the departure of the French is a separate issue. The whole area, you know, at that time, was abandoned by the French in the same way. So after ninety-seven years, it's only at this time that we can answer to the struggle of a people as Congress. We have another delay, a GAP project that started in 1960. It's been 37 years. At the moment, the project -- and Mr. Secretary for a long time, perhaps, there was a change in numbers as the Urban MP and Minister -- but 37 per cent were finished during the 27th period of government. 15 per cent of 37 per cent have been completed. The amount of money that should be spent in nine counties is at stake. Besides -- Mr. Secretary -- especially when the Justice and Development Party first arrived, the GAP project, which he said would invest in a very serious amount, is also a matter of being removed from the Ministry of Ministers and its importance. So it leads us to an idea at a point when the importance of the GAP is waning. In 9 counties, it is known that in the event of this project, it will create 3 million jobs, and the region's national income will increase by 9 per cent. The Minister, of course, had a master's plan prepared by the Japanese. He should also discuss whether the Japanese master plan is on the agenda. I think it was a very serious project that shouldn't have happened. For him, what we need to focus on, I think, is that while our Prime Minister is on his way to Urbana, I think, this Instance Medal is very important for the satisfaction of their spiritual feelings, but at least the fact that the Gap is as important to Urfa as it is to this project, convincingly, that it will include watering channels to the south of Kilis. I stopped by the Minister's office before opening the meeting. I asked, frankly, you know, we have a border with Syria. Okay, we're experiencing extraordinary conditions, and we know that we're in a region where terrorism is intense, where international integration services are turning it into a passing inn, or rather, where it's boiling. We also know there's a security wall down there. It's a matter of importance to me where the boundary of this wall sits, or rather the base of this wall. If that border, or rather the base of the wall, sits against the border, which is zero, you know, at least three or five Ceelanpinars per 820 kilometers, at least three or five Çukurovas, we may have to offer up to the years of virgin land to the service of agriculture. It's a tender to clear the mines, and we know it's going on. Sir, do you think it's time for you to say that under these circumstances? There are places on this side of the border where there's no peace. When that land is in our hands -- and I say this for my own sake -- I don't think my party will take any criticism of it either -- these are economic resources that are very important about Turkey's future. If this source is properly used... I mean, it's the worst thing to do in the name of a vote that I'm going to give to the poor poor poor... with pure emotional goals, political goals, an acre, two acres of land reform. Big farms are where production is now the most physical. There's only one way to protect the peasant, not to make the peasant a few acres of land, but to make the peasant a partner in the co-ops. Now in our region, one of the best chances of productive production in that region is that it's virgin territory. Most of the old lands we've acquired in GAP are unfortunately calcified because of the wrong irrigation, the wells are finished, the water supply from watering projects from 30 to 40 metres earlier has dropped to 400 metres, and now the peasant, or rather the Urban farmers can't farm there. This project, to the south of the church, is the seven - earringed bride, as the late Solomon Demirel put it. All the prime ministers of the past contributed to the earrings of these seven earringed brides, and I cherish them, but this bride has no proper bedroom, no car, no washing machine, no capital to do her job. So I ask Mr. Secretary that one of the great events that would make us happy in our Prime Minister's visit to Urbana would be to be voiced with the resources of his importance to the GAP. I'd like to explain my thoughts on one occasion, or rather, I don't want to extend them. I see the groups are tired, the council is tired, and they want today's meetings to be over as soon as possible. I've seen the president's attitude, and he says it helps us to finish almost quickly. I also wish that this medal would bring honor to all the Urbans in the city of Urbana, where my relatives in Suruç have lived, and that they would see that the price of our country would not go unrequited, and that they would approach the nation. So again, on behalf of myself and on behalf of my country, I would like to thank you again for the contribution of Parliament in this matter. Congratulations on the medal. I give you all the respect that the land of the future, the land that the people of the past paid for with their lives, is a land where all the peoples of peace and happiness live together. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0137par0030	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. Nuri Okuttan, Isparta MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Reader.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0138par0034	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on Article 1 of the Law Proposal on the Instruction Medal of Glory to Şanlıurfa. On this occasion, I salute you all. Today we have martyrs again. Once again, I wish all our martyrs the Lord God's mercy. If Allah wills, they will intercede for us and make their rights lawful to us. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. I also congratulate the blessed Regaip Kandili, which we will comprehend tonight, and wish the lamp to bring blessings to our country, the Turkish Islamic world, and all mankind. The proposal is about giving our province the Istrillal Medal of Honor, which is heroic in its epic struggle in the years of the national struggle. The glorious struggle against history as the Urfa defence was inspired by the national struggle and the establishment of the state of the Republic of Turkey. This glorious and blessed struggle, the heart of the national administration was taken into account by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and by a law issued in 1984, our Jaffa was named Şanlıurfa; it was given the proper name; but this beautiful attempt was left incomplete in the direction of the Stabilisation Medal. Now, basically, the arrangement is the completion of this deficiency and the delivery of a right. Honourable MPs are the city of Şanliurfa, the city where the first temple of the world was found, where Adam and Eve had farmed when they came to the earth, where the prophet Idris was founded, where the prophet Ceddül Enbija Abraham was born and lived, where Job knew the patience and patience of the prophet Abraham, where Moses was shepherding in the mountains of the prophet Moses, where many religious and civilisations lived. Şanlıurfa, as was yesterday's unique place in the history of the world, is now occupying an important place in the history of Turkish Islam. Especially when the people of Şanliurfa, who have internalized Abraham, who have modeled their personality, show the generosity of this great Nebini to a friend who was inspired by the name of Abraham and his anger toward the Nemrods, who have opened his meals to the guest. On April 11, 1920, in his struggle against the French, he showed the same faith and steadfast will to defend the sacred part of the land heroically. Their stones are ore, my trade comes, I want to smell your weed like a rose, It makes me want to stop and look at your happy face, It removes anxiety from my heart, Urbana. He's a hero when he robs her. It's nice to have a side-viewer in the dorm, He raises lions, lions in his bosom, These verses, which were poured out from the tongue of Halide Nusret Zortuna, are inspired by the battle of independence that the Şanliurfa people fought against the invading French in 1920. About six months after the French occupation, a secret society of 12 people, including Major Ali Reza Bey, was established and led by Ali Riza Bey, and the struggle was waged to fight until salvation. These are the heroic sons of Urbana, who have begun the salvation of Urbana, and have passed down into history as 12 priests. Apart from what it means today, the braves and the people who held hands with them have succeeded in defeating the enemy. On April 11th, the gangs pass, Bravery is boiling in the blood, There's no one like you. As the poet of the historic legend, whose story is written in the true sense of the word "Sunliurfa." When we look at one of the oldest cities in history, Şanliurfa (; born 11 April 1920), not only in the war of independence against the French occupation, but in many periods of Turkish Islamic history, we see it as heroic and courageous. That's why the Chelebi of the Maharajah would fail to praise Urfa. Throughout history, both Rome and Byzantine, both Islam, Seljuk and Ottoman times, have always served as strategic headquarters. When Nureddin Zengi, one of the men of Selçuklu from Anatolia, took Urbana from the Crusaders, the Arab poets wrote poems on the conquest of Urbana, equating the war with the Battle of Badr. In the same way, the world of the Crusade has suffered a great disappointment. Because Nureddin Zengi conquered Fairfax, Aleppo could conquer Damascus; because he conquered Damascus, he could conquer Egypt; and because he was able to conquer Damascus and Egypt, Saladdin Ayyub, the commander of his army, was able to conquer Jerusalem. Jerusalem wouldn't have been conquered if it hadn't been taken from the Urban Crusaders. In the time of the national struggle, the occupation of Urbana, Maras, Antwerp, is of such importance and vital importance to the invaders, that these cities, in their great determination and purpose, rescue themselves from the occupation of faith. During the national struggle, the rescue of these cities, especially Urbana, has been a source of great morale for the Ankara government, thus securing today's national borders. Mr. President, Sannlıurfa, who opened the door to those who took refuge in the inspired tolerance, embrace, friendship, and generosity of the Prophet Abraham, as a Syrian refugee said, was the refugee's shelter of the birds, in a more obvious way, the Medina of Asia Minor. Şanlıurfa is a city blessed with its stone, with its soil, because its importance is at the crossroads of the land of Asia Minor and Hezaz, because the prophets have mixed the land with the breath of their prophets, Islamised with alperans, and have become a Turkish nation. These praises to Şanlıurfa are also to highlight the city's religious, cultural and strategic importance for the Turkish Islamic world. Şanlıurfa is a Turkish city where Turkish culture and civilization live. Today, on the nights of the row, we are still reading the veterans of what we call court literature. Turkish is a language of wisdom, and the pole of the poetry of wisdom is the Roman poet. Almost all people over the age of middle age address one another with the decrees of Fuzul. In every branch of Turkish Islamic art, there are traces and words of Urbana. Şanlıurfa is an exemplary Turkish city with religious understanding, culture and architecture, an Anatolian city, the key stone of fertility and crescent. Through the Sanlıurfa-Halep borderline live Arabs, Turkmen, Kurds, Nogaylar, Circiks. For thousands of years, they have lived together in Şanliurfa, such as the intersecting colors and patterns in carpets and rugs where the women of Anatolia stitched. Since the beginning of the Syrian war, Şanlıurfa has been the city with the most immigrants. It is not a job for the modern world to have a large part of the asylum seekers in his own home, in his own village. Throughout history, this virtuous and tolerant conduct of the Glorious One has made it a city of character. The city knows how to win the heart of everyone who comes to it, through its tolerant and sincere conduct toward the stranger. Dear MPs, when we pay attention to the occupation and the date of salvation of Şanlıurfa, we see that it reflects the essence and soul of the people of Şanlıurfa and of this nation in a very enthralling way. You have revealed the essence of our civilization, and it creates the most wonderful example of revelation. Everyone there is at peace with himself, he is a part of the great Turkish nation, which he is a member of, as is the instrument in an orchestra, he makes his own voice, and he is part of the common spirit that is needed by the orchestra. I'm sorry to inform you that this day is not where he deserves to be. I think it should be much more central, much more important than where he is today, as a result of his hugger, representative, unifying spirit. Glory is a city with identity, personality, and soul. Glory is the name of the city, which, with its structure, can serve as a place to get to know our heart geography better and to play important roles in the establishment of peace and peace in our region. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, all of our provinces, who played an important role in the Battle of the National Liberation, have earned the right to be tautted with the Istiklal Medal. In this sense, we can't think of Edirne as being from Kars, from Artvin, and from the province of 81. We see that the east and the west and the north and the south and the whole of our land are inadmissible. Basically, we know our whole nation feels the same way. In that sense, Gaziantep, Kahramanmarash and Şanlıurfa also received these titles and Istiklal Medals on behalf of all our provinces, on behalf of the entire Turkish nation... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...because the hearts and souls of our other provinces were with us that day. On April 11, 1920, the French occupation survivor of the Şanlıurfa Medal - as I said at the beginning of my speech - was actually late. A Medal of Instruction is a right to be given to the Glorious. Although it may be late, I respectfully salute your grand delegation, who will sign this historic decision with their votes, saying that we support this beautiful, good and precious step on behalf of myself and the National Party for Action.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0139par0068	Thank you, Mr. Reader. Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0140par0072	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute and salute you all. I congratulate your blessed Regaip Kandili, the harbinger of the three months, wishing peace, peace, happiness, and blessing to mankind. Dear President, the honorable MPs of Şanlıurfa (born April 11th) are a matter that is truly due to the Şanliurfas, for all of Turkey, to be given the Islamic Medal which our profession deserves on the day of liberation. So I thank all four political parties again, and I congratulate everyone who's worked hard. Dear President, the esteemed MPs will celebrate the 96th year of Sannlıurfa's deliverance from enemy occupation on the next 11 April 2016. I honor and thank Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his fellow soldiers, who fought his life, his blood, and were martyrs in order to prevent the enemy's ambitions from reaching their mark. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, Şanlıurfa, Kahramanmarash and Gaziantep are one of the rare cities that saved themselves in the Battle of Salvation. ==History==The cities, previously known as Urbana, Antwerp, and Maraş, were named after the Turkish Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and were named after them. Dear President, members of lawmakers, in 1920 the Urbans fought a glorious war of freedom and independence. That is why the title of "Falfa" was added to our country in 1984. I'd like to make a brief mention of this heroic saga. During World War I, the Ottoman armies were defeated, the Treaty of Sevr was signed, the soldiers left arms, and the people were left alone and abandoned to their fate. The British, who had the opportunity for this worst period in Turkish history, occupied Urbana in 1919, and soon joined the French with their 3,000-strong forces. Following this invasion, a Kuvaimilliite had a power and was led by the late Captain Ali Saip Bey. The people had gained their freedom by fighting for their own resources, their lives, their blood, their property, and the spirit of the national struggle had changed the course of history by strengthening the entire homeland. The deceased, Ali Saip Bey, was named Ursaw because of his heroism, with his last name the Law. Finally, on April 11, 1920, the forces of the people, led by the heroes of the Battle of Salvation, liberated their cities 12 days before the Assembly established in Ankara. Those who acted after this deliverance -- of course, my friends from Gaziantep, not to be offended by my countrymen -- also helped Antwerp. So not only did the Şanlıurfans save Urbana, but they also helped Gaziantep (Ghaziantep) because of this struggle for freedom and independence.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0141par0080	Mr. Mahmut, Gaziantep is a martyr of 6,311. There was the bloodiest of them, and there was Gaziantep.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0140par0081	God rest his soul. Of course, the Şanliurfans don't recognize cities, districts, districts in the defense of the country, dear friends. For our country, for our citizen, for freedom, for peace, not in his rightful place, but in the power of the Republican People's Party, hopefully, we will bring him to his rightful place. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear President, dear lawmakers, is the history of Şanlıurfa just a struggle for salvation? Of course not. If you look at the dates of the city, you will find that it has hosted Sumerians, Romans, Alexander the Great, Saladin Ayyubi, and many civilizations. For this reason, the area of Şanliurfa and its environment is a region not only of our century, but of a long history and culture that goes beyond it. Glory be to the city of the prophets. Glory is the cradle of civilization. Glory is the home of one of the oldest universities in the world, but our university has not been given the opportunities it deserves. The Minister has been elected MP of Şanlıurfa for two semesters. In his early election, there were 414 -- the code number 414 -- 14 of the 414 projects didn't take place. There was a promise of 687 projects during Mr. Metropolitan Mayor's term right next to the Minister. I don't understand how he came up with the 687 promise. Mr. Faruk Bey found it because the phone code for Şanlıurfa was 414, but at the time Mr. Mayor Şanlıurfa was the mayor of the city, the candidate for mayor, where did they get the 687 project?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0142par0085	It was 400, you put 14 on it.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0140par0086	The current mayor says: I don't understand either. They've launched this 687 project, but he doesn't know how it's going to happen. So, for him, our two valued congressmen, who have given Shanliurfa 414 projects, who have promised 687 projects, are sitting side by side as ministers and MPs. And I present this to the knowledge of the entire House and of all the Glorious. Of course, Şanlıurfa...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0143par0087	Minister of Artvin, Mahmoud of Artvin, Minister of Artvin.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0140par0088	Mr. Secretary Artvinliurfas -- of course, the cradle of civilization -- embrace everyone; hopefully, after that, the Urbans will not choose an imported minister from their territory.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0144par0089	The minister is interested in the votes of Urbana, not their problems.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0140par0090	So there are 12 MPs who are valuable in Şanlıurfa, each of whom is gifted in their own way, really well-equipped.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0145par0091	Let's take you to Urbana.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0140par0092	In that sense, why can't the Sanliurfas choose a minister of their own, and I don't understand him.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0145par0093	In this period, you must come to Urbana and become a candidate.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0140par0094	Now, my fellow members of the Şanlıurfa MP say: "Come and run from Urbana. " Dear friends, let's separate from our party identities, one-on-one, all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0145par0096	That's where you make 3 percent of it.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0140par0097	Look, I'll be fine from there. Now, dear friends are Şanlıurfa Balıkligöl, Şanlıurfa is Harran, Şanlıurfa is Halil-ur Rahman Mosque, Great Mosque is Mevlid-i Halil Cave, where Abraham was born.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0146par0099	Be an independent candidate from Istanbul!
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0147par0100	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please listen to Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0140par0101	Dear friends, I used to walk through the forest corridors of Şanlıurfa, Kölebi, Çalebi in East Anatolia, Southeast Anatolia. As he said, Şanlıurfa, who once hosted the green... there is no green in Şanlıurfa now. So in this sense, there were forested areas in Urbana, unfortunately, there are no forested areas now. Şanlıurfa is the reason for the rewrite of the world's civilization, Gobeklitepe. For this reason, Şanlıurfa is the center of tolerance for language, religion, apartheid.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0148par0103	Bravo.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0140par0104	Dear friends, of course, it's not just these, it's also a city where poverty and unemployment are fighting, where the public is a victim, and when the people are victims, the plans and projects are not produced. Lucky, we have a city that has been powered down for seven hours, eight hours a day. Şanlıurfa Obstetrics Hospital...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0148par0105	May Allah do as He pleases you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0140par0106	...a place where two children sleep in the same bed at the children's hospital, where they can't find a bed on the ground every day.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0149par0107	Name the new hospital, the new hospital. The largest hospital in Turkey is in Urbana.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0140par0108	In Şanlıurfa, the population of 1,900 thousand hospitals has now been cancelled as of this week. He didn't have enough hospitals, he didn't have enough doctors, he doesn't have enough teachers all the time. There are at least 35 or 40 students in the classroom. Mr. Secretary, members of lawmakers, members of the Urban Parliament, you'll be coming to talk to us in a moment. Why is Urbana's power cut? Why are there 50 students in each class? Why are there two kids in a bed in a children's hospital? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I also urge you to take care of the electricity, of course, of health, of his education.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0150par0111	Candidate, candidate. Run from Urbana.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0140par0112	I ask that the Medal of Peace bring peace, peace, and happiness to both our land and our country, and I salute you all again with respect and respect.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0151par0114	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group Ahmet Eşref Fakibaba, Şanlıurfa MP. Here you go, Mr. Fakibaba.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0152par0118	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin by congratulating you and the blessed Regaip Kandili of the entire Muslim world. Glorious is the zero point of history. Şanlıurfa is a city where mankind exists, where all religions exist, where brotherhood, Kurdish, Turkish, Arab, Suryani, Muslim, live together, live together in brotherhood, not just Turkey, as an example to the whole world. It's really going to happen, it's going to happen, it's going to happen, it's not going to happen, as our dear brother Mahmut Bey said just now, it's not going to be green, it's going to be green, it's going to have lots of forests, it's going to have lots of parks, it's going to have fertile lands, so when we look at the agriculture, it's going to be a blessed Suruç Plain, it's going to be Harran Plain, it's going to be a place that we're watering down Bozova, most of it's going to water, believe me, and I'm telling you, I'm telling you right now, it's a place where Turkey is a grain warehouse. So, in 2002, my friends, the governor of that time invited me to a radio program in Diyarbakır, he said: "Ya, Ahmet Bey, as chief physician, you know your health well, let's do a program with you in Diyarbakır. Now, they asked me: How is health in Şanlıurfa? How is health in Şanliurfa?" There's no increase in beds, no increase in doctors. Sir, people are waiting in line. Sir, the patients are coming, and they're lining up. I said. Those were the right ones, fellas.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0153par0120	When was that?
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0152par0121	That was before 2002, when I was chief of staff. And then, frankly, on Diyarbakir radio, this brother of yours was very clear about them. But, Şanlıurfa, you really should see, really different friends now, you should see Gobeklitepe, especially Harran, especially Fishligal, especially the people, friends, you should see the hospitality of your people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, God bless you a thousand times. So, the 1918 Mondros Investigation, now, the enemies have decided and will divide Turkey. First the British, then the French, said: "We will capture this Urbana." And the brave Urbans came out, and they said to the English, "No, we will not give you this place." Then they fired the French. Here, Ali Reza Major, Captain Ali Saip Bey, God bless them a thousand times. The heroic Urbans did not leave, and -- look, this is very important -- without any help from the center, a city protected him and set an example for other cities. I am proud of the Jaffa, and I am proud of my Jaffa. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, then, with Kurdish, Turkish, Arab... There are Kurds, Arabs, Turks, and we have protected them. Our Jaffa have protected us, and the Jaffa have protected us. So we're not just saying the Turks did, we're not saying the Kurds did, and we're not saying the Arabs did. All of us, in unity, saved our Jaffa, by God's leave, and this will continue after that. I thank you from the bottom of my heart to the Jaffa and to the heroes and to the great leader Mustafa Kemal Pasha and his precious comrades. I thank you from the bottom of my heart for the people who built this republic. My third thank you, indeed, to you, Mr. President, our Prime Minister, our esteemed deputies, all of you. Even though it's really late... it's late, really, I wish it were sooner. The Antepians were vigilant -- I'm sorry -- they got it in the 1920s, and Marash got it in 1973, and again, I thank this Parliament, thank you to all the parties, and we got it late. Mr. Celal Doğan made some really good speeches regarding the GAP, but I especially invite Mr. Celal Doğan to Urbana, to come and see that there is water in his hometown of Suruç, to see the plain of Harran, to see that there is water in Bozova, but believe me, do we not deserve much better? We swear. I believe, by the will of God, that we will accomplish this in unity. Mr. Mahmut has just said about Mr. Faruk Çelik, Faruk Çelik, and we are proud of the Urbans, our honorary citizen, who has really been doing a lot of work since the day he arrived, and tonight we're going to talk to him about Şanliurfa, aren't we, Minister? We'll talk about glory. What else can we do in Şanlıurfa? How can we make the glory person happy? In unity, I hope our work will continue. In fact, my dear Regents, my dear fellow citizens who follow us, today is the day of unity. Yahu, please, we need to take very good care of Şanlıurfa, Antwerp, Maraş, Diyarbakır, Mardin, friends, we need to take good care of them. This region is a region that will feed Turkey alone and only Turkey. We need to be very careful with this area. We need to put our hands together for this area. Peace and brotherhood must be maintained in this region. Just as the Urbans gathered against foreign enemies on April 11, 1920, this area would need to be united by all the people in the southeast, all the people in Turkey. Look, we call it a Gobeklitepe, the zero point of history, the beginning of humanity, and one of the first works. Stonehenge, who is five thousand years younger than this, travels 10 million tourists a year in England. Yeah, all the hotels are for sale because of these events in my Urbana. We're supposed to be united here. No more Urbana, no more Turkey, no more Diyarbakir, my friends. For him, I think we should all today show this unity and unity that Urbana showed on April 11, 1920, and we must make sure and ensure it. With Allah's permission, there's been talk of hospitals and so on, and I'm telling you, as a former chief of staff -- and the general surgical expertise of my profession -- thank God -- are people from Europe coming to us for surgery now or not? I ask my friends, I ask the opposition, when did this happen? Back in the day, people would line up, and they'd start with the morning prayer in the medicine line, and they couldn't take the medicine until tonight. I mean, we have to remember that. Hopefully, we'll be able to provide the unity we've established in Urbana with you in the southeast and in Turkey. You must see the glory, my people, and come to Şanlıurfa. In fact, as Urban lawmakers, we owe you one. After receiving this Medal of Intrigue, we invite the entire Assembly to Şanlıurfa. We invite you to Gobeklitepe, Halil-ur Rahman, Balıkligöl. Hopefully, there you will see the hospitality of the people of Urbana, and you will see their people, and you will say: "It is a good thing that we have given this medal. " Look, I want to finish my words with this verse: There's a gang crawling through the blackstone. Long live the Urbans. Go, go, commanders, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, Urban gangs aren't coming back. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] By Allah's leave, none of us will return, we have one Urbana, one Turkey. I thank you all from the bottom of my heart for bringing this medal to our Glory, and thank you all for all our four parties.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0154par0141	Thank you, Mr. Fakibaba. The talks on behalf of political party groups are complete. There are no members of parliament demanding a word on behalf of themselves. There's no demand for questions. Thus, negotiations on Article 1 have been completed.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0155par0146	Mr. President, I want a matter on the record. The first city to receive the Artificial Medals is Kahramanmarash, the second is Antwerp, and today we will give it to our Şanlıurfa. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I wanted it on the record.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0154par0149	It's on the record, Mr. Tor, thank you. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2. - (1) This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. There's no demand for word on matter. There's no demand for questions. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the 2nd article is accepted. MADDE 3. - (1) The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There is a government's demand to speak on Article 3. Mr. Faruk Çelik, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I have made a pledge on our Law Proposal on the Legislative Medal to Glory. I salute the High Council. It is one of the ancient cities in which many prophets, such as Sumerians, Akkadians, Assyrians, and Islamic civilisations, re-written the history of humanity with twelve thousand years of Gobeklitepe, were called Şanliurfa, the first university was founded. This ancient city is a glorious city that has been the flag of our future struggle as an example to the oppressed nations. On this occasion, Mustafa Haci Kamil, who wrote the heroics of the struggle to rid himself of the French occupation of Urbana (Furfa), who wrote our history as 12.....: Mustafa Hadji Kamil, Güllüzade Osman Efendi, Nibozade Hadji Hadim Efendi, Hadji Mustafa Efendi, Hadji Mustafa Efendi, Hussifa Efendi, Hüseyin Pertev Efendi, Shellizade Ali Aga Efendi, Kamilzade Haci Mustafa Resid Efendi, Şakir Ef. (Applause from the AKP PARTY) The title title of the lucky one in 1984 is also a gift from them, which will be given today. I hereby bless all the heroes of the national struggle, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Today, if we're talking about the unity of our country, our country, our unity, our brotherhood, our flag, our oppression, our freedom, I want to make it clear that we owe it all to these national struggle heroes. To those who try to sow the seeds of hypocrisy, I would like to make it very clear that as a congressman of this glorious city, this land, watered by the blood of martyrs, and acquired by great struggles, is a work of our fallen martyrs. So we divide our bread in the past, we divide it today, but we don't divide our country, and we don't divide it anymore. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We, of course, did not find this land of ours in the marketplace, with the real blood of martyrs, with all the trouble. For the sake of a crescent, many suns went down and roses faded from every garden. This country is the home of the descendants of those who were shouldered in Sakaryah in Çanakkale. On this meaningful day for him, I would like to point out that serving this meaningful Parliament during the working hours is a meeting, and that we have the pride of serving this beautiful city, which we call the city of the prophets. Yes, I am not from Şanlıurfa, I went to Şanlıurfa, and became a MP, even though I had never seen Şanlıurfa. But, let me put it this way: I went as my party, and I want to make it very clear that we're here with nine deputies as my party. (APPLAUSE) A great service has been performed; take it from the GAP Arena Stadium, the highways, the double roads, the intersections -- look, there have been classes that exceed 10,000 classes, and we're talking about a Sanliurfa, which the students of the class have regressed to the 30s and 35s. Like Aleppolibahça... I recommend to all of you that those who do not go should see the Aleppobahça Museum. At the opening point of Ayyübiye Hospital, 800 beds of Ayyübiye Hospital. The 1,700-bed hospital, one of the number of city hospitals in Turkey, is now beginning, and in three years, hopefully, it will be finished within this period. Hospitals were built in every county. Very important steps have been taken in agriculture. The plain of Suruç was mentioned, and I want to finish it by giving an example. A 17 -km tunnel was built, and we had the 900,000 - Declared Plain of Şanlıurfa met with water. So within the GAP projects, hopefully, there are some very serious projects going on. In the meantime, we'll be watering 6 million acres. It is our duty, of course, to serve this beautiful city, but I would like to say that I thank our dear fellow members of parliament, who, in fact, have delivered this right today to a shining Turkey and our city, which is the star of the region, Mr. Prime Minister, and, in particular, our members of parliament who have signed this proposal, and to our friends, the members of the Şanlıurfa MP, the members of the political party who have been working, and I believe that we thank our very dear members of parliament who support this law proposal with their speech, and that it will soon be in effect. I wish you the best of our law proposal. I give you all my regards, my love. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And I'd like to thank my friends at the Presidential Court for that. I submit the third article to your votes: those who do not accept... the third article has been accepted. I submit the whole proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the offer has been accepted and legalized. [[presidential Court, AK PARTI, CHP, HDP and MHP standing round of applause]] The Grand National Assembly of Turkey wishes the proposal to be good, and we send greetings and love to the Şanliurfa and to the Şanlıurfas. Mr. Sky, you have a request. Here you go, sir. I'll turn on the mike.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0156par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as we have just made a decision, we have all agreed that we will be given the Izliurfa Medal to our province. We say good luck to our glory and to all the Şanlıurfa. We have made it very clear where we will stand as Republican People's Party if there is a Stabilisation Medal, a will and a homeland, without any complications, by showing our historical responsibility and our political kindness and gesture to overcome a obstruction we consider the Republican People's Party. By signing a very important political decision in order to overcome the obstacle of the law, which Mr. Prime Minister has pledged and the Şanlıurfas have been eagerly awaiting, we are today leaving the Stabilisation Medal in a golden-plated box and we expect Mr. Prime Minister to present it to the Şanliurfaans on 11 April for all of us. We're all so proud and proud. I wish all the Şanliurfa people well again. I am deeply celebrating every political party that has worked in this law. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0157par0190	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0158par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we, the People's Democratic Party, would like to express our satisfaction that the people of Şanlıurfa, the people of Şanlıurfa, have been brought up with a spirit of unity in the Parliamentary General Assembly about the giving of this Legacy Medal, which they deserve to the province of Ruhi. With this bill passed today, we would like to express that we have seen a hope that the spirit of the Salvation War and the founding will of Parliament can once again be revived. That spirit of unity, all of its different identities, its languages, its religions, its beliefs have been able to gather around a spirit of unity, and it has protected this land against an imperial plan that ancient civilizations have made all kinds of gains for mankind. However, when the spirit of unity began to take its place, when differences, different beliefs, different languages, different identities were tried to be melted into a single hoop as a danger, from then on, unfortunately, these lands suffered very serious problems, great suffering, great tragedy. We want to express that we have seen all of our current problems in this spirit of unity, the spirit of resolution. What we need most right now... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0159par0198	Complete, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0158par0199	... I want to express that this is the spirit of unity. In particular, I wish that the Prime Minister would go to Sanliurfa, along with a solution and peace project that would match the spirit of unity and the spirit of unity in his bag as he went with this Statistical Medal, which the people of Urbans had earned to the end with their heroics. I'm saying good luck again, good luck. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0160par0203	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0161par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. We are truly proud to have given the Istrillal Medal to Şanlıurfa with all our MPs. Sanlıurfa, who led this struggle, was actually a source of strength and inspiration for the establishment of a national and unitary republic on the axis of independence and sovereignty, in both the running and winning of the National Liberation War. Yes, perhaps it is necessary to submit that the Honourable Medal of Şanlıurfa is a long overdue right, but with threats and attacks on our unity and integrity that we face today, at a time when global traps and games are being brought to the attention of this nation and the unity and integrity of the state, this Stabilisation Medal will also be given to one and all of Turkey's will. So in this respect, this Instrumental Medal was originally given to the Holy Nation, which we gave to the Şanliurfa in the National Liberation War of the Veteran Assembly, which also protected all of our honor and honor. Regarding this medal, our Parliament Speaker will also be in Şanlıurfa, on the Day of Salvation of Şanlıurfa, regarding this law. So Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz will be there to represent us in an environment of the Speaker of Parliament in Şanlıurfa. On behalf of all the MPs there, on behalf of all the parties in this matter, I believe that the President of Parliament...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0162par0211	Complete, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0161par0212	I believe that they will represent this will there regarding the giving of this Instigation Medal, and in this regard, frankly, we will all, together, share their greetings, love, and respect. Good luck with that. Hopefully, Mr. Speaker, by showing that will there, it is the national will that makes this law our nation, our MPs, the Council of Ministers who will. In that respect, I would like to ask that the Speaker of the House, representing the national will, share this will of our nation with the Şanliurfas.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0162par0214	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0163par0217	Mr. President, thank you. The smoky mountains around Urfa have come to Urfa, the black bridge is a pomegranate. It is likely that all of these songs are known and sung with pleasure. Basically, the common values of culture, like the songs, like the kitchen, are the elements that bring us together, just like the common history and the common imagination of the future. We have our differences, of course, but these common values are now added to the Honourable Medal of Şanlıurfa. Thank you very much to the House, thank you as the AK PARTY Group. We consider the common will very important here. If the people of our ancestors, or the people who are our ancestors, by moral standards, are naive, just as our grandfathers have kept their independence in common as we do, then there must be some meaning that we, as a nation, have been able to take out for the future, there must be places where we can keep it in common. We see it as a means of various partnerships, as well as by which the Assembly in a common way gives the Istrillal Medal. I pray that this journey will continue with criticism and contributions in many other matters of the land. May it be good for him. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-07sit03spe0164par0221	[[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Botanci. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report of the Dair Law, which is ranked in the 3rd place, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Pakistan. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 186 rows. There's no demand for word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. In the wake of the State of Turkey's Government and the State of Turkey's Republic's Republic, it is necessary to ensure that the public's understanding of the state of the United States will continue to be established. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on December 7, 2010 in Ankara. There is no demand for words or questions on Article 1. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There is no demand for words or questions on Article 2. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. The third article does not require words or questions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a two-minute period scheduled for a vote. Also, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote vote be voted by any minister, the color of the game and the ballot bearing his name and name and signature, be delivered to the presidency within a two-minute period scheduled for the vote again. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I declare an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Pakistani Islamic Republic that Approved Agreement for the Responsibility of People Without Permission: ▪ Number of votes used: 281 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. In accordance with the decision taken, it is Monday (April 11th 2016) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 14 p.m. on Monday (April 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00. I bid you good night.
