tbmm-2016-10-01sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 26th Union of the Second Legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Congressmans, I salute you with the honor of the 26th Year of the Second Legislature, the nation, the state, the good work for all our geography and humanity, the noble and noble nation in person. I remember with honor and gratitude all our historical figures, our spiritual and national leaders, who fought for the right path and for their people in adversity and in want. Our coven has demonstrated an active and efficient work in the previous year of legislature. It's been a busy year. Unfortunately, however, our Turkey faced a coup attempt. On Friday, July 15, 2016, a network of traitors attempted to refer to our national existence and integrity. A group of brainwashed, military-weared terrorists, who were trying to undermine national will, a democratic law state, pointed guns at the hearts of the nation who had been handed over to them. We've had a rare tragedy in the history of the world, which is not in our history. Turkey's Grand National Assembly, the representative of national sovereignty, has been bombed, we've been hit by helicopters, 14 police have been injured, and the Presidential Assembly has been bombed. They attempted to assassinate our President. I opened the Grand National Assembly of Turkey without an offer or suggestion during the beginnings of Melun and the foul coup. The next day, on Saturday, July 16, 2016, it was 14 o'clock. At 00, I announced to the political parties and MPs that I had invited our Grand National Assembly of Turkey to an extraordinary meeting. While the tanks have turned their barrels to Parliament, under the fire of planes and helicopters, I'd like to express my thanks and appreciation to our esteemed deputies who have been running to Parliament and attending a meeting during the night, taking all kinds of challenges and martyrdom. I truly believe that the hearts of the other MPs who were not in Ankara because we didn't have a working day were in this room. As a matter of fact, our lawmakers, who were not present in this hall that night, entered a democracy watch in their provinces, and in the squares they said, "Yes to democracy, no to coup." They led the loud voice to the national flood. Our Parliament, the first parliament in the world to defend its chest against enemy cannons, was named "Gazi Parliament." We, too, have the title of "Gazi Parliament" for the second time, carrying out our duty to preserve the sovereignty of our nation under the bombs that have been thrown at us as a total Parliament. The coup attempt of traitors seeking to win national will was prevented by the brave Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who led our people to the squares and by our nation to fill the squares and to shield the tanks from their chests, regardless of the party's difference. In our nation's DNA there is courage, fearlessness, and courage, and noble blood. Courage is not fearlessness, but overcoming fear, overcoming fear. Our nation has proven that on the night of July 15th, you have absorbed democracy, that there will be no more coups. As the floods rose from the mosques, the oppressors defeated the coup by the nation's night-long democracy watch; Turkey has now closed its coup era. July 15th, we owe thanks and thanks to our martyrs, our veterans, our beloved nation. May His Holiness bless our martyrs, and give our wounded, our veterans, an immediate healing, and a long life. As you know, four of our parties in parliament attended the extraordinary meeting Saturday (July 16, 2016). A joint statement was issued. There was great and exemplary solidarity. I'd like to thank Mr. Bazili Yıldırım, President of the People's Party, President of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, Chairman of the National Movement Party, Mr. State Bahçeli, Vice President of Peoples' Democratic Party Party, Mr. İdris Baluken, and you, our esteemed deputies. Our parties have also led our people and our people to be united by their attitude under the House. On Sunday (August 7th), the spirit of unity and unity that everyone appreciated was crowned by the Democracy and Martyrs' Meeting in Yenikapi Square in Istanbul. It has been shown that we are united and united by the invitation of our Reverend President, and by the rally of 5 million people, we have absorbed democracy all over the world, that we will not pass the coups. In the glorious rally held by our President of the Diet Affairs, Mr. Mehmet Gormez, who was among us, our President, Muterem Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Chairman of the EC PARTI and Prime Minister Mr. Balali Yıldırım, Chairman of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Kemal Kildaroğlu, Chairman of the National Movement Party, Mr. President of the General Staff and the Honorable General Hulusi Akar have been shown to be standing tall for a time. Dear MPs, in addition to our official and private institutions and institutions, especially our citizens, official delegations and persons from foreign states have made intensive visits to our Parliament. Meanwhile, the physical structure of our Parliament has been severely damaged by the bombs dropped by traitors. We'll keep one part of it as a living museum. A general arrangement is required for places that are left out of this. To meet this need, I'd like to thank our NGOs who have taken part in "The Nation Makes the Assembly a Nation" slogan and in solidarity with Parliament for renovating activities. Congressmans, we must not abandon the expectations of our nation's Parliament. We have to meet these expectations by discussing them civilizedly, by talking. I believe that all four of our political parties will contribute to a productive year of legislation by perpetuating the culture of reconciliation. As Congress, we have a very large agenda ahead of us at this time. We must make arrangements that we need to make for our country to be a leading country in the conflicting civilization race without further delay. One of our top priorities is to build a simple, civil, democratic, independent and centralized constitution. As you know, changes have been made in the existing 1982 Constitution on 18 separate dates. The Constitution, consisting of 177 articles, has been changed in 114 different ways. A constitution that has lost its influence and integrity is no longer capable of carrying more Turkey. The issue of the new constitution is the expectation of our society and the commitment of all our parties to our nation. We must fulfill this commitment with the broadest possible understanding. Besides, we need to establish a new Civil Code that will make the Parliament's work regular. Parliament is not the center of law enforcement, we have other duties. The basic philosophy, which locks the work, which leads to controversial sessions, must be changed at once. Our current Charter was adopted in 1973, 186 articles, and on 13 separate dates, some of the articles were considered several times and changed in 155 articles. Other issues that should be on the agenda include political parties, elections and lawmakers' laws. Dear lawmakers, our nation faces great threats from the inside and the outside. On the one hand, the separatist terrorist group, the PKK, which tried to bring the brother down to the sister, the DAHŞ gangs, who were thrown at us as the pawns of foreign forces, were attacked in the form of an alliance by the Fetullahist Terror Organization (AKP), which assassinated our arm-on-arm state with them. The decisive fight by our military and police against these evil forces, which want to break the peace and security of our Turkey, to prevent its development, will surely be a success. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we will always carry out our obligations in the righteous and decisive fight against terrorism; we will maintain the singleness of our flag of country, nation, state and moon. Congressmans, as representatives of the nation, our mission is to ensure that our country will never be threatened again, that assassinations can't be orchestrated. You know how important it is for us to act in the spirit of national unity and solidarity. Before I put an end to my words, I honor the precious zevat and many unknown heroes, including Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, who have been serving from the opening of our House to the present day, without any earthly thought. The unity of our nation, the presence of our state, the martyred soldiers, the police, the village ranger and all our martyrs once again, thank you and thank you to our heroic veterans. I hope the new year of life is a blessing and auspicious. Members of parliament, to give the opening address for the new year of legislation, our Reverend President is now arriving at the General Assembly Hall. I welcome them on behalf of our coven. [[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY ranks; standing up from CHP and MHP rows]] [[Identical March]] Thank you. [[Applause]] Here you are, Reverend President.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit01spe0002par0038	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the opening of the 26th Year of the Second Legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you with my deepest feelings. I respectfully recall all our MPs who have served under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I am happy to remember those members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal, who have been critical of the afterlife. There are no doubt many major turning points in the history of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey from April 23, 1920 to today. I believe that from now on, the night of July 15, 2016 will be a separate and special place in the history of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'd like to express my gratitude to you, our esteemed deputies, who were gathered in this courtroom immediately during the coup attempt, and who showed our nation's reaction to the coupters in Congress. Our MPs held this institution, which was the center of the national will, with dignity and strength in the face of the coup attempt. The price of this honorable attitude has been paid for the repeated harassment and bombing of our Parliament with fighter planes, the fire of helicopters with heavy weapons, the siege of tanks. On the 15th of July, after the Battle of Salvation, our Assembly had the honor of being a veteran for the second time. The night of the coup attempt, 241 of our citizens, police and soldiers, who were all martyrs in Ankara and Istanbul, were written in gold letters on the hearts of our nation and on the glorious pages of our history. This nation and this state will never forget our gas 2.194 wounded the same night. Basically, that night, our entire nation, which surrounded the streets, the squares, all the institutions that the coupgers targeted, all the places that were likely to support the coupgers, deserves the adjective name. We can never repay the debt of tens of millions of our citizens, who have stayed up 29 nights on democracy watch, who have shown to all the evil forces inside and out that their government, their nation, their sovereignty, and their future. In the process, Turkey has taught the entire world a lesson in freedom and democracy, which will be exemplary throughout history, except for a handful of traitors. Our nation has made it clear to the world that it will not leave room for those who are eager for coup, as it is for terrorist organizations. I can't be too proud of the Holy Turk nation. In particular, we must remember that all of our lawmakers in this courtroom owe our nation their lives. In order to pay off our debt to our nation, we must work together more, produce more, move our country further in every field. On this occasion, once again, I wish God's mercy to our July 15th martyrs, my condolences to our relatives and to our nation, and to our veterans, health and pleasure. At Wednesday's National Security Council meeting, we advised our government to accept this date as "July 15th, the Day of Democracy and Freedom" as an official memorial. We continue to prepare monuments for our martyrs in Istanbul and Ankara. Our martyr relatives and veterans are given all kinds of material, spiritual support, and will continue to be given. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, once again and underline: we must remember and remember July 15th. For this, we must encourage the execution of July 15th in every place from textbooks and textbooks to documentaries, movies, decent works. To anyone who hesitates in this struggle, tired, depressed, hesitated, I advise: In such a case, put the list of our martyrs in front of you, look at their pictures, look at their professions, their homes, their families, their residence addresses, watch the footage taken that night, listen to the stories of our martyrs, our veterans. There, you'll find that any organized team, not just any political, social, economic group, is blocking the coup on July 15th, but the common people, the people who are forming the backbone of this nation, are blocking it. I assure you, on July 15th, the majority of people running to testify in the streets had no property, no title, no status, no other interests. (EC PARTY) These people were put out on the streets to take care of their beliefs, their beliefs, their personalities, their freedom, their own future, and the future of the next generation. That night, millions, every chance I get, "One nation, one flag, one country, one state." For the sake of the principles of which I have expressed, they walked on the weapons that vomited death. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Just after the coup attempt was understood, the nature of the call the Prime Minister made to the televisions of my own is nothing more than the expression of the feeling of our nation, which has already begun to enter the streets. Unfortunately, there were people who didn't understand that feeling that night and then afterwards, who didn't want to understand it. In fact, what happened on the 15th of July, when you called it "the play," saying "the theatre," saying "film," saying, "What kind of a coup is that?" Some people have tried to belittle him. So I'll make it very clear from here that whoever can't say "but" to July 15th, "but" without "but" without "small," and curse it, is a part of the coup attempt, at least voluntary supporter. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Those who fall into such a mistake will not be able to escape first to the memory of our martyrs and our veterans, to the millions who went out on the streets with them that night, and beyond that, to the entire nation. On August 7th, our nation made it clear that its position with the President, with the Speaker of Parliament, with the Prime Minister, with the leaders of the opposition parties, with top representatives of the judicial and executive bodies, with 5 million citizens in the field, with 5 million watching the screens outside Yenikapı, with the 79 million in support of the entire landscape, with the 79 million in support of it. On this occasion, I would like to express my thanks to our representatives of the political party and the institution, who have supported this beautiful landscape at Yenikapı. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] When it comes to the country, freedom and future of Turkey and the Turkish nation, it is our responsibility to carefully protect the Yenikapi spirit, which proves that it can be one heart, one voice, one breath. Our greatest strength against terrorist organizations is our unity, our unity, our solidarity. I believe that during the new legislature of our coven, there will be a repeat of that beautiful landscape in the Yenikapı. Of course that doesn't mean that we'll all think the same thing about everything, say the same thing. Nobody has that kind of demand, and it can't be. Our differences in approach, our differences in faith, thought, style will surely occur. What is expected of us is to keep our unity and unity strong on the fundamental issues that concern the survival of our nation and our country. If we can't meet on a common basis about PKK terrorism, about DEAS, about the safety of our borders, the integrity of our country, the unity of our state, the greatness of our flag, then there's a serious problem. That's why we share a common position in the Incantation, which is why I think it's important, and I wish it to continue. Honourable lawmakers, Turkey, along with its PKK and its extensions are also being subjected to intense attacks by the DEAS terrorist organisation. The DEAC, which is cornered in Syria and Iraq, is trying to open up space for itself by targeting Turkey. Our decisive struggle with this organisation has contributed greatly to the decline of the DEAS, which emerged as an extension of Al Qaeda, in Syria and Iraq. In the same way, PKK terrorist organisation's actions since July last year have caused the region's people to take a significant stand against the organisation. The organisation, which has poisoned life for the people of the region with its pits and explosive actions in our southeastern district, is now attacking to support projects outside our borders. Every step Turkey makes against the DEAS in Syria, PKK, PYD, YPG terrorist organisations respond with full force. We don't leave the blood of our soldiers, our police, our rangers, on the ground by taking out terrorists in large numbers. But the purpose of the PKK's terrorist organisation's actions to distract only Turkey from Syria and Iraq is being positively identified by the region's people. Carefully, for some time now, participation in the mass activities of the separatist organization and its auction companies has been reduced by the rate that they have not been able to find a single tenth of it. The region has largely severed its link with this organization, which pursues its future and the future of its children to some dark forces, and is not afraid at the point of gushing blood. The operations run by our security forces are supported by the locals. As a state, we are working hard to erase the damage done by the separatist organization in the region, to repair the victims of our citizens, to rebuild our cities. Hopefully, in the coming period, we will all bear witness to more positive developments in the unity, unity, brotherhood, peace, and security of our country and our nation. Dear lawmakers, we must transform July 15th into a nation in every sense for Turkey. Together, we must fight a decisive fight against PKK, PYD, YPG, DEAŞ and all other terrorist organizations. We must carry out the structural reforms we need with determination. We must prepare our country for the future by taking the necessary lessons from our experience over the years and especially from the coup attempt we've been subjected to. The developments in Syria and Iraq are not independent of the terrorist incidents we live in. What we've experienced so far has shown us that we can't deal with these issues without the will to carry out our own projects. Of course, we know it's a matter of power and opportunity. If Turkey had not reached its present level with its economic indicators, investments, employment potential, social benefits, defence industry, for example, if it had remained at the level of the 1990s, it would not have been able to take such a strong stand in the face of domestic and external attacks. The only way we can deal with the problems we're struggling with today is by reaching our 2023 goals. The biggest task falls to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and its precious members. Our Parliament must lead in any way that will pave the way for our country, which will help us achieve our goals, 2023. For this, we must quickly implement a new constitution, at least a comprehensive constitutional amendment, if possible. I consider the ongoing work within the House of Parliament a positive step towards the amendment. The expansion of this work, the immediate conclusion of its scope, will ensure that a hope in our nation, that our Parliament can achieve structural change through compromise. Again, I find it important that the House Council be re-examined in a way that allows this great institution to conduct more effective, faster, and practical work. The more active Congress and lawmakers work, the more dignity they will have in our nation. As a president who sees the only way out of all problems with national will, I would like to point out that I support and support the work of the Constitution and the Civil Code. On August 10, 2014, for the first time in our republic's history, as a president elected directly by the nation, I am well aware of the duties of the Constitution and of my responsibilities to my nation. It is also important that we live in a critical phase of our country. Since the day I've been elected, I've worked day and night to fulfill my responsibilities to my country and to my nation, and I continue to work. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Like any new situation, doubts about the presidency's position, elected directly by the nation's vote, have disappeared in time. So far, I believe I've performed a presidential mission in harmony with the legislature, the administration, the judicial body and its nation. And in the coming period, I will continue to work with all my strength to represent my country in the best possible way, to meet my constitutional duties and the expectations of my nation. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] I regret the effort to wear down the presidency and its place. The target here is the choice of our nation's free will, not my own. No one, especially the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has that right. Hopefully, after today, we'll be able to put this pointless argument behind us. Dear lawmakers, among the developments that threaten our national security, there is a special place for developments in Syria and Iraq that extend across our southern borders. The Syrian issue is a vital issue for us, both in its human and in its security dimension. Turkey's position on Syria has been clear from the beginning. We believe that problems in Syria can be solved by a respectful approach to the preferences of the Syrian people, the country's territorial integrity and sovereignty rights. The DEA is the result of the problem in Syria, not the cause of the problem, which had previously resulted in the destruction of Afghanistan from Al Qaeda. It is not logical that a country of 22 million people before the war could not be purified from foreign fighters, estimated to be around 10,000, for more than five years. The same is true of Iraq. Obviously, the problem in this country is not just about 10,000 foreign warriors. DEAS is a convenient material used by everyone with an account on Syria and Iraq. The breaking of the region's religious, religious and ethnic fault lines is hidden under the DEAS cover. Some countries, including the globalisation of refugees and terror, are consciously directing radical elements in their own country to Syria and Iraq, are insisting on avoiding the consequences of the problem. Turkey is determined to complete its humanitarian duties to the people of the region, as required by the law of a thousand years of common history and culture, neighbourhood and brotherhood approaching an era. Turkey's effort, which houses about 3 million refugees in camps and cities, is appreciated by everyone with morals, conscience and compassion. In contrast, the European countries in particular failed this human test. The European countries, who prefer to close their borders rather than embrace refugees, have thus far taken under their feet the values they have defended. Every innocent soul in Aleppo, buried under ruins, will have to pay for the violence, and the nations and societies who have watched it will have to pay for it in front of history. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] No political account is more valuable than a person's right to life. The number of people killed in Syria in six years has now reached 600,000, where the word ends. While we continue to carry out our humanitarian duties within and outside our borders against the Syrian people, we will also continue our mission to warn the international community. Operation Firat Shield is a legitimate operation against all terrorist organizations in Syria that we and the people of the region have launched. The assault, where the DEA used a 14-year-old child as a live bomb to send him to a henna ceremony in Gaziantep, where most children lost the lives of 56 of our citizens and were injured by 100 people, was a drop in the bucket for us. With this operation heading west and south, starting from Cerablus, our goal is to establish a safe zone in this region, which is the size of 5,000 square kilometers in the first place, free of terrorist organizations. As Syria's lands are thus gradually secured, the problem of terrorism and the problem of refugees will be resolved. There were 2,000 Cerablus people when Cerablus entered, but now almost 40,000. So the people of Cerablus are now returning to their lands. We haven't had any objections to this project that we've been defending for years, but we haven't had any actual support. The terrorist corridor, which is trying to be established along our southern borders, and the actions of the PKK and the DEAS focused on our country, forced us to implement this project with our own means. The successful continuation of the operation showed that the fight against the DEAS in Syria could be carried out with the country's own children if the necessary support is given. The dissertations of those who tried to remove another terrorist organization, PYD-YPG, against the DEAS, have failed with Operation Fırat Shield. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] A similar play is being staged in Mosul. This game, which is being staged against the region's religious and ethnic structure, cultural sensibilities, must also be broken down by Shii militias and members of a terrorist organization in the case of the PKK's extension. Because there is Telafer just north of Mosul. This place is also made up of Turkmen, and I want to remind you that an operation on Mosul is also aimed at Telafer. As Turkey, we believe that Mosul could be saved from DEAŞ, especially with the necessary support of Arab and Turkmen forces in co-operation with the region's main elements. We will continue to make every effort to prevent Mosul from being drawn into sects and ethnic conflicts. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We can't stay outside the table as Turkey. We have to be at the table. At these borders, Turkey has a border of about 350km in Syria. The others don't have that kind of limit here, but they want to draw conclusions there. We shouldn't be watching this anymore, we can't stay. And this is where it's gonna decide. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As Turkey, if we want to live in peace and security within our borders, we are obliged to make progress in this direction in Syria and Iraq. Otherwise, our border security and anti-terrorism efforts will be under constant threat. Dear MPs, relations between states are political, economic, cultural, human, military, complex relationships. Each of these elements is meaningful and important in itself. But they're also interacting with each other at different levels. Turkey's recent growing regional and global activity has made their relations with other states much more erratic. Our relations with institutions such as the United States, Russia, Germany, Iran and the European Union are going through a period of very important developments at the point of our representation on various international platforms. Russia and I are taking significant steps to normalise our relations starting in June after last year's unfortunate crisis in November. While we continue our efforts to compromise the issues of our differences, we aim to focus on our common interests and to bring our relations with this country above its former level. As a matter of fact, in many areas, energy, tourism, exports of agricultural products, our relations are rapidly approaching its former level. We went through a similar process with Israel. We're trying to develop relationships with Israel, which meet all of our requirements for the incident of the Blue Marmara, that will bring good results for all in our region, especially our Palestinian brothers. We strive to maintain our relations with the United States in harmony with the spirit of our traditional alliance relations. In particular, however, we have recently witnessed a serious discrepancy and multilinguality in the policies of the United States of America towards our region. While part of the American administration is co-operating with the PKK/PYD-YPG terrorist organization in Syria and Iraq, some of them are trying to follow closer policies to our sensitivities. We will continue to try to resolve this problem without causing permanent damage to our country's vital interests, apparently stemming from the presidential elections in the United States. In the process, it is unfortunate that the United States Congress approved a law that allowed Saudi Arabia to be prosecuted for 9/11 attacks. First of all, this law clearly violates the principle of the individuality of crimes, a universal admission of the law. We expect a return from this wrong step, which is the potential for a dangerous discussion of the sovereignty rights of the states. I believe that the United States of America, where we have very close relations in our region and on the global level, will soon come to a line in the spirit of our relations. Another key actor in the region, Iran, and we are in intense contact with Syria and Iraq, as well as with our differences. Basically, there are very serious energy, transportation, infrastructure, cultural co-operation projects in the region that we can implement with Iran. We continue to develop relations with Iran with an approach that brings our partners forward. October is an important date for our relations with the European Union. As it is known, the European Union's promised visa liberalisation must take effect this month. As we look at statements made by the Union, we see that a vital issue for Turkey, such as the fight against terrorism, has been tried to be transformed into a precondition for the process. This is a statement that the European Union does not want to keep its promise to Turkey. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] And again, let me make it very clear that they know. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Turkey has always been the one who keeps its promise in relations with the European Union over half a century. We've had no objection to delays, shortcomings, setbacks. But especially in the recent enlargement process, the democratic and economic criteria are quickly being made full members of countries that cannot be compared with Turkey, while the insistence of our country -- not easy, but 53 years -- showed the European Union's true intentions for us. There's no need to twist the words, try to get on top with diplomatic walkers. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We expect an openness, transparency, sincere agreement from countries that are active in unity with European Union officials. Please, let the Europeans stop trying to pin the sin of different intentions on us. We have no problem with the criteria of the European Union, global democratic values, rights and freedoms, human rights, the rule of law. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We take them for granted, not because the European Union wants them, but because our own citizens deserve them, we bring them to life, and we continue to spend them. The European Union, if it will make Turkey a full member with an objective assessment, has nothing to do with it, and we are ready for it. But they're wrong if they think they're going to keep us distracted by irrational impositions, even though they have no intention of doing so. Now that we're at the end of this game, they need to know. The European Union has the choice to move on with Turkey or without Turkey, and they will make that choice themselves. Don't let them get smart and try to pin this on us. Dear lawmakers, all our country's problems are important, but we have to give the economy a separate significance. Terrorist organisations, coupgers, diplomatic footplay, those who can't stop Turkey are putting economic leverage before us at every turn or resorting to economic leverage. In the past 14 years, we have resisted and resisted economic attacks, with the exception of the 2009 global crisis. Praise be to God, as Turkey grew, as it grew, as its power and resources grew, it became more resistant to such attacks. There's a Turkey growing stronger with infrastructure-infrastructure investments. Notice that with every wave of terror or social turmoil, a rumor of economic crisis, advice, campaigns are launched immediately. Did we go through this during the trip? We lived. Did we go through this on December 17th or 25th? We lived. That's exactly what we experienced in the separatist acts of terror that began again after July 20, 2015. Finally, after the July 15 coup attempt, the same scenario came up again. With the failure of the July 15 coup attempt, the eyes quickly turned to the economy. But our nation, our beloved nation, watching us at the beginning of its screens, claimed its economics along with its future and future, and the next day, it put 2.5 billion dollars into the market and turned it into TL. So far, $12 billion has been released, and our Central Bank has not had to market currency. Large investments, projects, production, exports continued without stopping. Here, the opening of the Osman Gazi Bridge, praise be to God, and since the opening day, the number of vehicles has increased exponentially. The Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge is in the same way, and the construction of interconnected highways continues with great zeal. Now, hopefully there's the Çanakkale Bridge, hopefully there's the Canal Istanbul Project. With these, Turkey will pass a much larger evolution, revolution, and we need to know that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, they saw that they wouldn't be able to intercept Turkey, and this time they've activated credit rating agencies. Two days ago, two days later, a rating agency called,,,,,,, didn't take it seriously in or out; on the contrary, there were more applications to the Treasury, more attention. Within the next week, international companies will sign an agreement with a large company that will finance some $1.1 billion in healthcare. This is the painting. The World Energy Congress, which will be inaugurated in Istanbul on October 10th, will take place in talks with huge amounts of money in this area, perhaps in agreements, and some of the world's leaders, hopefully, will join the International World Energy Congress. One of the most important steps that we've recently completed is the Turkish Entity Fund, which is getting more and more attention every day. Thanks to this fund, funding for large and strategic projects will be much easier for us to carry out in the coming period. With both bilateral cooperation and mutual investments in third countries, this will bring a great deal of profit to our country. The growth rate in the first half of 2016 is about 4 per cent, embarrassing those who think this year will be a lost year. Hopefully, Turkey will go a long way towards achieving its 2023 goals with growth rates above expectations. Any measures are being taken to replace the recent partial recession in the economy. As a matter of fact, we're already seeing the first signs of this organism with an increase in the economic trust index at capacity use. The Central Bank's efforts to reduce interest and narrow interest corridors and the Economic Co-ordination Board's decisions that provide new benefits for consumers are positive developments. Turkey should be appreciated for continuing a relatively high growth rate despite the problems of terrorism and coup attempt during a time when major economies are in serious trouble. But that's never our measurement. Because we have very big goals, very big expectations. We're going to work harder for him, we're going to produce more, we're going to employ more, we're going to export more; we're going to care more about high technology, quality, RD. And we're going to do it together with his government, his politics, his nation, the business world. With these thoughts, I wish our Great National Assembly of Turkey, the Second Year of the Second Legislature of the 26th century, once again, to be a better one. In this period, I would like to wish our lawmakers the ease and success of our party groups. I say God be with us and help us. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit01spe0003par0124	Thank you, Reverend President. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0004par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 1st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Congressmans, I wish that the Second Year of the Second Legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would bring blessings to our country, our nation and our democracy. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I wish for a time when we will work for our nation and for our country, as we always do in the year of the legislature, where we will work overtime, where we will find what is best for our nation, and what is best for our nation, without dissociating your ideas from courtesy and compromise when they are discussed. As we all know, the scoundrels who exposed their treacherous intentions to our Veteran Assembly, our President, our nation, our country, and our democracy on the night of July 15th took the biggest slap from this great nation. On the night of July 15th, under the leadership of our President and Commander-in-Chief Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, these traitors have received the necessary answer when our nation, together with our President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, under this roof, has heroically shielded the hearts of the nation's representatives. In history and in the heart of our nation, many legends, many heroics, and at the beginning of the 21st century, he wrote his own legend, yet cried out to the hero in his heart. Once again, from this place, I remember all our martyrs with mercy and gratitude, and once again, I wish our veterans a cure. In this context, I would like to wish success to the ruling, opposition groups and lawmakers in a time when the national will will will grow stronger, and once again show the world that our unity and unity will live forever, and reforms that will meet our nation's expectations, increase its peace and prosperity, will be completely crowned with democracy. Members of parliament, the presidency has a statement to a minister who has resigned from the Council of Ministers and the newly appointed ministers who have been discharged, I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Minister of Interior Efkan Ala, who served on the Council of Ministers, resigned and resigned. The Minister of Labour and Social Security and Tripoli MP Sulejman Soylu have been appointed to the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, under Article 109 and 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. For your information. It has been presented to your knowledge. Now, according to Article 92 of the Constitution, the Prime Minister's office has a thesis, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The developments in Turkey's southern land borders and the ongoing conflict environment's risks and threats to our national security have increased both in quantity and in quality. Our country is of great importance to the preservation of the territorial integrity, national unity and stability of our neighbour, Iraq. On the other hand, the presence of armed PKK terror elements in the northern part of Iraq poses a direct threat to the security of our country. DEAŞ and other terrorist organisations remain in the north of Syria, with terrorist organisations carrying out armed attacks and suicide bombings against our country. Meanwhile, in the six-year conflict in Syria, the regime continues its persecution, violence and attacks on the public, support of terrorist groups, ethnic and religious policies. In the face of this situation, it is imperative that the measures necessary to be carried out on a national level, in accordance with our rights to international law, against any risk, threat, and action that could pose a danger to our national security from Iraq and Syria. In addition, the United Nations Security Council's 2170 (2014), 2178 (2014) and 2249 (2015), in light of the fact that Iraq and Syria's territorial integrity and independence have been confirmed, and that it is also being condemned by terrorist activities in the 2170st and other terrorist organisations in these countries, and it is also a part of Turkey's policy to continue its action against the activities of DEAS and other terrorist organizations, in accordance with the UN Security Council Decision and its responsibilities in accordance with international law. In light of these conditions, the threat of terrorism to Turkey's national security and any security risk, to take any necessary measures under international law, from all terrorist organisations in Iraq and Syria to avoid attacks that may follow after this, and to ensure that other possible risks, such as mass migration, ensure that our national security will be maintained, during the crisis and then possible developments, to protect and protect Turkey's interests effectively and to protect its interests in the direction of national security, to ensure that the future compensation of developments will be followed by a rapid and religious policy that will be followed by a high-speed, against other possible risks such as public immigration, to ensure that Turkey's security will be maintained, and to ensure that its access to foreign forces and to all countries in accordance with the direction of international law, and to ensure that Turkey's access to the two-t-trial institutions of Turkey's access to the two-t-t-t-t-tuns-t-t-tuns-t-t-t-tuns-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-tuns-t-t-t-t-tun-tunty-t-t-tun-tuntuntunt-t-t-t-tunt-t-tune-t-t-t-t-t-t-on-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-tune-on-onth-t-t-t-on-on-on-on-on-on-t-t-t-t-t-on-on-un-un-t-t-t-t-on-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-on-un-un-t-t-on-on-un-t-on-t-t-t-un-un-unest-t-un-un-un-un-un-un-un-un-un-un-un-un-un-un-un-un-un-un-un-un- Government? Here. I will open a meeting on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the groups, the government and the individual, I promise two members. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. I am now reading the names of the members of the MPs who have taken over the thesis: National Defence Minister Mr. Fikri Iş, Antalya MP Mehmet Günal on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on behalf of the group; Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Ardahan MP Özturk Yılmaz on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; İstanbul MP Ahmet Berat Konkar on behalf of the Justice and Development Group. İstanbul MP Engin Altay, Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu will speak on behalf of the individuals. Now, the first word, on behalf of the government, belongs to the National Minister of Defence Fikri Illum. Here you go, Mr. Light. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0005par0038	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers of our Veteran Assembly, at the beginning of my words, I wish our Parliament of the Second Legislature of the 26th Century, all its employees, our country and our nation. Against the threat of terrorism against Turkey's national security and other security risks, to take every necessary measures under international law, from all terrorist organisations in Iraq and Syria to eliminate attacks that could then be launched against our country, and to ensure that our national security should be maintained, during the crisis and then possible developments, and to protect Turkey's interests effectively and to protect its interests, according to the direction of international law, to ensure that a rapid and dynamic policy will be followed by the future, against other possible risks, such as mass migrations, and to ensure that the number of our national security should be maintained and then be established, and that the international forces of Turkey should be effectively and then be protected, according to the course of development, should be used to ensure that its foreign countries be dealt with in order not to meet a difficult situation. I hereby salute the President and the members of our High Council, and congratulate you again on your new year of legislation. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I ask all our martyrs, including the Turkish Armed Forces, security forces and civilians, who died defending their homes in the wake of the vile terror attacks in our country as I begin my words, to have God's mercy, and to be patient with their painful relatives. Again, in the same way, I pray that our citizens who have been injured in these treacherous attacks will have an immediate recovery, and I hope that they will be able to regain their health as soon as possible. This Veteran Parliament, which has been faced with the greatest betrayal of history, has unfortunately become the target of traitors on July 15th. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy to our martyrs on July 15th, and an urgent healing for our wounded. I want to stress that this fight will continue until there are no more traitors in all the institutions and institutions of the state, especially in our Turkish Armed Forces, until there are no more traitors. I would also like to be known that no activity intended to dilute this struggle will be permitted. Mr. President, honored members of the Council, in the presence of our great Parliament, with a great sacrifice and courage for the peace and security of our country, and with every kind of danger, day and night, I thank you from the heart to all our security forces, the soldiers, the police, the gendarmes, the village rangers, and all our security forces. Once again, I would like to express to you that we are aware of the gratitude that we will never be able to repay the children of this country, the veterans, who gave their lives for this country. For years, Turkey has been fighting terrorist attacks on the peace and security of its people, its country's national unity. The recent hand attacks in our country are a clear sign of this. This clear threat continues to increase with the influence of other recent developments in the region. As you know, our country has been faced with a serious and open threat of terrorism, due to elements of PKK terror organization nested in the northern part of Iraq, aimed at the peace and security of its people and its country's national unity, security and territorial integrity for more than 30 years. The terrorist organisation is concentrating on its periodic actions, targeting our unity, our brotherhood, and aims to disrupt social peace. The organisation is not only referring to innocent lives, but also to Turkey's economy, foreign policy, and the future of our country. As you know, the Turkish Grand National Assembly has previously authorized our government to ensure the use of Turkish Armed Forces abroad. In this direction, the first authority thesis was sent to parliament in 2007 on the growing terror attacks in Dağlıca. Since this period, the government has made preparations, continued and implemented how such a threat can be eliminated and that a comprehensive strategy involving co-operation in the political and military effort should be created and implemented. While fighting terrorism on the one hand, democracy has been raised, freedoms expanded. The PKK terror organisation's extension in Syria, PYD-YPG, also capitalises on the turmoil in Syria, seeking to gain profit with the support of non-field actors and countries in the region, while the PKK abuses the crisis in Syria and Iraq to gain legitimacy in the eyes of the international public. As we have already stated, the PKK and the PYD share the same terrorist pool and the leading staff. The PKK's relationship with the NYD is easily understood from many contacts and co-operations. We have strong information and evidence that aid to the PYD has been delivered to Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists who have committed terrorist acts in Turkey. This is a serious threat to our government, and at the same time, our country is a sensitive issue for the public. In recent years, our neighbours have increased their attacks day by day with developments in Iraq and Syria, and the DEAS is another terrorist organization that has seriously threatened the security of our country. The terrorist organisation poses a serious threat not only to the Middle East region but also to the security and stability of all countries globally. As we often say in different places, our country is strongly opposed to any form of terrorism, regardless of its purpose and method of application. We consider the acts of terror aimed at the slaughter of innocent people to be a crime of humanity, regardless of distinction. With that understanding, we will continue with determination to fight the threat of terror targeting our country. Operation Firat Shield, launched on August 24, 2016, is the most concrete example of our determination. As it is known, this operation is being conducted for the purposes of fighting the DEAS, and is supported by the international coalition. This action aims for Syrian opposition elements to advance in the field against the DEASH, and to be removed from the places in which the DEAS controlled our border. The removal of DEAC elements from our borders has always been a priority. From the beginning, we fully supported all efforts put forth internationally in the fight against DEAS. The rocket-bombed terrorist attacks of the DEAS have cost hundreds of our citizens their lives. The responses to these attacks have been constantly given, continuing to be given. In light of this background, Operation Firat Shield was launched on the morning of August 24th. The operation is carried out on the basis of the right to self-defense, due to Article 51 of the United Nations Condition. The UN Security Council's relevant decisions burden countries with important responsibilities in the fight against terrorism and, in particular, DEAS. The removal of the DEAS from our borders will also ensure our border security. As a matter of fact, as of September 4th, the 98km of our border line between Azez and Cerablus has been cleared of DEASH, 104 settlements and some 910km area have been cleared of the DEASH in particular. It is a priority for us to go deeper than this line and clear the interiors of the south from the DEA. This action is also a clear and concrete indication that any terrorist organization in this region, which is of great importance to Turkey's national security, will not consent to unilateral agendas that will follow the will of the majority of the Syrian people in any event. Turkey's effort is also important for the protection of Syria's territorial integrity and political unity. As Turkey, as we often say, we see the DEASH taking root in the region as a threat to our national security. The DEAS is actively operating on the south side of our border, and the mortars are hitting our villages, our counties, and our civilian people. In the war against DEAŞ, Iraq and Syria form a single battle zone. In this regard, it is appropriate to adopt a comprehensive approach that includes both countries. In this framework, it is our country's right to take any necessary measures under international law against the threat of terrorism and security against Turkey's national security and to eliminate attacks on our country from all terrorist organisations in Iraq and Syria. It is important to establish a comprehensive strategy containing political, humanitarian and military mechanisms and to complete political measures for the removal of the DEAS. Terrorist organisations taking advantage of the lack of authority and chaos in the region, especially in Syria and Iraq, are trying to increase their capacity for activity and areas of action as power grows. Government gaps in these countries open a maneuvering area for terrorist groups. The Sunni-Sii distinction in the region and the presence of ethnic fault lines are important areas of abuse fed by DEAŞ. The DEA is unfortunately supported and fed by some regimes in the region's countries. The best example of this is the Esed regime in Syria. The regime is primarily responsible for the settlement and expansion of the field of activity by the DEAS. In attacks by the DEA, 254 of our citizens have died and hundreds of our citizens have been injured. Strangers suspected of having ties to terrorist organisations and entering our country illegally are arrested by our relevant institutions and then deported. In 2012, 230 people were deported, 526 people were deported in 2014, and the number rose to 1,785 in 2015. Up until now, more than 3,700 people have been deported by our authorities. As a result of operations against DEAS terrorist organization between 2013 and August 2016, 92 suicide vests, 600 kilograms of explosive materials, 175 kilograms of explosives were seized. We must, of course, take measures to ensure the safety of our borders, our lands, and, most importantly, our citizens, using our right to self-defense from Syria against threats against our country due to international law. In this scope, the Syrian army and DEAŞ, which continue to fire into our borders despite our country's further warnings, are being answered by the Turkish army under the principle of international law and reciprocity. The answer will continue to be doubled here today, in the case of you authorising him to extend his time for another year with a statement to your appreciation. The extension of the thesis authorising our government will support the comprehensive and multi-dimensional activities we are conducting in order to permanently eliminate the threat of terrorism, and will continue to be a deterrent to the possible actions of both the separatist terrorist organization and the DEAS. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, under the roof of our Veteran Assembly, I would like to make it clear that our country's existence, our nation's integrity, and our state's indivisible integrity can never be debated. Besides, there's no reason to justify terrorism. The attacks on the integrity of our state and the existence of our nation cannot be described as a search for rights by any structure or group. Terror is impossible to serve any case. Those who support terrorism, who can't show a clear and decisive attitude towards terrorists, will give themselves the biggest harm first, and then our children will have the bright future. Our country, which follows politics to play an active role in its region and in the world, will continue to fight terrorism anyway. In the process, all institutions of the state and political parties must act with common will and precision in the fight against terrorism. Terror has no religion, no language, no nation, no nationality. It is our common duty to corner our government with a threat of terrorism and to eliminate those who act in an attempt to undermine it by making it vulnerable. In the fight against terrorism, we are deeply concerned about separating our citizens from those who express their demands within the democratic system, and those who promote terrorism and support all activities that would harm our people and our state. Those who strive to achieve certain rights by resorting to blood and violence, those who think that democratic steps are achieved by terrorism are historically mistaken. Because it should be well known that we would have lived in a much better Turkey for the development of economic and democratic standards if it hadn't been for the terror that has been troubling our country for years. We take great care of the safety of our people by reflecting on the experiences we've gained over time in the fight against terrorism that has been going on for over 30 years and losing thousands of innocent children on this road. Our position in the fight is based on a multidimensional understanding that highlights the human element, which captures the delicate balance between safety restrictions and freedom. In this process, the necessary and deterrent measures will complete the whole approach to our fight against terrorism. Our ultimate goal is the facility of sustainable freedom and security that we will never need again. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been issued by the Turkish Armed Forces as part of a prior warrant, with ground operations, air operations, air exploration flights and artillery fire. The only aim of the countermeasure is the domestic and external terrorists who attack the presence of this country. After that, this challenge will continue effectively and effectively. Dear members of our Veteran Assembly, in light of the above developments and assessments, I salute you, the Veteran Assembly of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, dated 3/9/2015, and the length of a year's leave granted to the government in the same decision as the principle and basis of 30/10/2017.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0006par0057	Thank you, Mr. Light. Members of parliament, the wife of Republican People's Party Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu has passed away. God rest his soul. We offer our condolences to Bulent Bey and to all his family, to all his relatives. I believe that tomorrow's noon prayer will be buried after the funeral prayer at Kobytepe Mosque. I'm just saying, heaven be your place. On this occasion, I'm going to give my word to the group's vice presidents for one minute at a time. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0007par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, we learned that Mr. Bulent Kuşoglu's wife, a member of the Republican People's Party Assembly, was deceased. We express our sorrows. We wish the deceased God's mercy, the entire Republican People's Party community, and our condolences and patience to Mr. Kusoglu's family. As you have just said, the prayer of the funeral will be followed by the noon prayer at the mosque of Kobytepe. Again, we offer the deceased the grace of God and our condolences to the House of Kusoglu.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0008par0069	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0009par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the People's Democratic Party, have learned with great regret about the death of the wife of Republican People's Party Ankara MP Mr. Bkent Kuşoglu. I'd like to extend our condolences to the deceased, God's mercy, and to his relatives, and to the entire Republic People's Party community. We're also starting a new era of legislation, a new year of legislation. At a time of extreme despair, I would like to say that we also consider the opening of the House with a declaration of war a great misfortune and shame, and that the work that contributes to peace, democracy at this time is once again done in this House. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0010par0075	Thank you. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0011par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Republican People's Party Ankara MP, our dear friend, Mr. Bulent Kuşoglu, we have been informed of the death of his wife. We ask for God's mercy on the deceased and offer our condolences as the National Party of Action for the People's People's Party, his family, his relatives, and the Republic's People's Party.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0010par0080	Thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0012par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. We, as the Republican People's Party Group, thank you for their condolences and our sympathy for the death of your person and the other political party groups that constitute our Assembly, Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu's wife, Tülin Hanım. On this occasion, we too will bury our funeral at the Surayaka Cemetery, following the noon prayer at the Mosque of Kobyape tomorrow. Again, I ask for God's mercy on the deceased, thank you for their interest in the General Assembly and political parties.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0013par0086	Thank you. Once again, we, the Court of Parliament, ask God's mercy on the deceased, and once again to his family, and to the Republican People's Party Group. On behalf of the groups, the first statement is from Antalya MP Mehmet Günal, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0014par0095	Thank you. Mr. President, I salute you and the great Turkish nation. In accordance with our rights born of international law, which could pose a danger to our national security, the government demands that it be granted a year's extension of the permit granted by the TBM in 2014 and extended by the TBM in 2015 so that the necessary measures can be determined at national level. As noted in the argument's motive, developments in the mujavir regions on Turkey's southern land borders and the risks and threats that the ongoing conflict environment poses for our national security have increased both in quantity and in quality. The nationalist Movement Party's view of developments in the region is primarily to eliminate elements that threaten Turkey's security and protect national interests. The second issue is the end of chaos, chaos and conflict in the region. The solution to problems must also be acted with countries in our region and with the international community. The third and the other important thing is to end the human drama caused by conflicts in our region, to take any responsibility to ensure that people who left their homes, their homes, who became refugees, live in peace and quiet in their own homes, and to support their sincere quest for solutions. There's chaos and internal conflict that's been going on for years just beyond the borders of our country. The conflicts in Iraq and Syria have become both a threat to the security of our country and to the countries of the region, and have led to an intolerable human drama. We believe that this situation has two sources, and there is no way for peace and quiet to come to the region without the two resources being drained. The two sources of terrorism and conflict are the PKK, PYD and ISIS. This is the basis of the nationalist Movement Party's views on the developments in Iraq and Syria.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0015par0103	Mr. Günal, just a moment... Congressmans, there's a hum in the hall. Please, if we sit in our seats, the preacher will continue to speak. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0016par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Praise be to God, the National Movement Party has always been right, never wrong, never deceived, and never wronged, in the thoughts of this historical experience that have been shaped by this point of view. The ISIS, which threatens our national security by Mr. State Garden, is one of its examples on October 1, 2014, as part of its review of the PKK/PYD terror. Mr. President-General said at the time: "Of course ISIS is a great threat, and it must be destroyed, and its head must be crushed in an emergency. However, the PKK/PYD-YPG is also a different name for a plague that has been frozen to the head of Turkey and its environment at the same rate, perhaps more. While fighting ISIS, the PKK/PYD will provide road and opening space for the western part of the so-called large Kurdistan. Iraq and Syria's territorial integrity and the removal of all terrorist groups from the region must be the only priority. In fact, Mr. President, on August 6, 2012, again, pointed out this danger much earlier, and made the following assessment: a security generation, which should be established and carried out immediately to minimise threats to our country, should be established and carried out in order to minimise the threat to our country. The countries of the region, especially Iraq and Syria, should be able to reject global custody, display insight, courage, and strength to defend human beings and geographical integrity. All must be vigilant against environments, lobbying, weapons and terror barons who want to redesign the Middle East map and roll up the sleeves for it, looking for opportunities to form new states. The Turkish state must stand up to all national power elements against the proliferation campaign, which has been staged along the border of the Misakimillil. In short, it is clear to us today how distant-minded Mr. Gardenli is, who has only proposed the facility of the safe zone in 2012. Two organisations operating under ISIS and PKK/PYD or YPG today threaten the territorial integrity of both Iraq and Syria. Both organisations have launched bloody attacks on our country and are threatening our existence. Any attempt by Turkey to eliminate these two plagues is legitimate in this sense, and it is not only intended to ensure the security, peace and stability of its own country, but to benefit all countries of the region and the people living there. However, in order for the matter to be resolved fully and for our country and our region to be at peace, operations must not be limited to ISIS, and the activities of PKK and its extended organisations must be reduced to minimum. As it is known, our allies are waging another civil war in the Syrian civil war and supporting the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) they have been using as subcontractors to attack Turkey for years and support the PYD and the YPG, which is its extension in Syria. The terrorist organization, called the DSG, is fighting the PKK. The elements that our allies have armed, as well as our allies who have supported the PKK, are trying to turn Turkey into Iraq and Syria, using their ammunition and weapons to attack our soldiers, police and citizens within our borders. In fact, those who say that maps will change in the Middle East have been completely exposed as a result of what happened after 2011 and the coup attempt on July 15th. Turkey, on the one hand, issil, and on the other hand, wants to be destabilized and dragged into a civil war with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). To prevent that, these terror structures nested outside our borders must be destroyed. Turkey's fight against Operation Fırat Shield is not enough to nullify this plan. With the support of our allies due to the instability in Syria, all terrorist homes of the PKK, which sought to build a puppet terrorist state, must be destroyed before they go into dissolution like the east and west of Firat. This is also the request of Kurds, Arabs and Turks, who have been subjected to PKK's persecution or have been forced to leave the places of the PKK because of US air support. Turkey's Operation Fırat Shield has once again shown that none of the actors who say they are fighting ISIS are intended to eliminate ISIS, using ISIS and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) as a lever to destabilise the entire region. What Turkey must do is invite its allies to show that they are sincere in fighting the terrorist organisation and to lead a joint operation that will preserve Syrian territorial integrity by convincing them that organisations such as the PKK/PYD-YPG are also a terrorist organization. Syria must be cleansed of ISIS, but it must be done so that it does not allow PKK to dominate the region and new terrorist groups. Therefore, the areas of the PKK/PYD's activities must also be cleaned, and Afrin (Afrin) at the very bottom of our border must be included in this cleansing, and PKK (PKK) must not be allowed to be freely engaged in activities east of Fırat. How to establish Syria after Syria has been cleared of organisations such as ISIS and PKK/PYD-YPG must be decided by people in Syria. There is no limit to what we've paid for the wrong Syrian policies in the process since 2011. The people in Syria were also victims of a bloody internal conflict and had to take refuge in countries in the region to save their lives. Today, there are nearly 3 million Syrian refugees in our country. In Aleppo, there is a separate human drama every day. Tens of thousands of people living in Aleppo are starving on one side and losing their lives under the bombs of the regime. It is our duty to prevent dozens of civilians from losing their lives in these attacks every day. Again, we have a humanitarian responsibility to millions from Syria to Turkey. Each country and its citizens have that kind of conscientious responsibility, not only ours, but theirs, to watch the civil conflict in Syria and the destruction and destruction of the country. The rejection of this conscientious responsibility of EU countries, Russia, the United States, Iran, Saudi Arabia and Qatar (Katar) may not be the subject of an account today, but at least tomorrow they will answer in front of history, and if they run from history, they will not escape the courthouse. Members of parliament, Operation Firat Shield is an operation to ensure Turkey's security and Syria's peace of mind, but the initiative must be well explained to the international community. The countries of the United States, Russia, Britain, Iran, Saudi Arabia and the European Union must be well told to all international public that Turkey is acting in an effort to establish its own security as well as to ensure the peace of the people in Syria. Turkey's mission to clean terrorist nests, build a safe zone and reduce human drama must be worked to ensure the support of an international coalition. On the other hand, the Iraqi army has been preparing a military operation for ISIS in Mosul, supported by the United States recently. French planes in the international coalition also bombed Mosul yesterday. There is a debate that a military campaign against Mosul, where nearly 2 million people live, could lead to a new flood of refugees, which could lead to conflicts between Shia and Sunni groups. Is Turkey being asked to support the Mosul operation with combat elements? If wanted, how will we be able to act together in Mosul, while our allies support the PKK/PYD in Syria? We expect the government to explain what his attitude will be if he encounters such a demand. For example, when the United States supports the PKK/PYD-YPG in Syria, how will they ask us to fight ISIS in Musul when they arm them? Will it also help to clean up PKK elements in Kandil? These questions need to be answered. On the other hand, Barzani, according to the Iraqi Constitution, wants to increase its effectiveness in areas that are controversial. This frame also shows that he has been moved to increase his activity in Kerkuk, on the basis of ISIS. Will this operation provide grounds for Barzani's expansion? Will Kerkuk contribute to the further step forward in determining the status of? These issues are also required to be reviewed and briefed on these issues. It is Turkey's greatest wish for Mosul to be purged from ISIS, Iraq to PKK, and, of course, it is a matter we have been insisting on for years. Currently, there are Turkmen in many parts of Turkey, but mainly Ankara, who have to leave their homes after the invasion of ISIS, and unfortunately, they are trying to live under difficult circumstances, without many rights. Their only demand is to return to their homes immediately, but the fulfillment of this wish will depend on the absolute approval of the Iraqi government and the development of an attitude that will ensure that an international coalition and that the PKK will also be cleaned from Syria and Iraq. Congressmans, once again, we welcome the developments in both Syria and Iraq -- stressing that we are looking at both the stability and security of the region and Turkey -- and not afraid to put our hands under stone to clear ISIS and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). It is our first priority as an MPP for Arabs, Kurds, Sunni or Shii, both our brothers and sisters in Iraq and Syria. Although Turkey's objectives of Operation Firat Shield are limited to the coming of peace and peace, the resilience of the region, and the end of humanitarian dramas, it is an important step. We believe that this step must continue so that both countries can be wiped out of all terrorist organizations. So we think it's appropriate to negotiate with all parties and act on an international initiative. But when it comes to the security of our country, inside and outside, everyone must know that we will not hesitate to take any risks. Our party will look with this precision and use its preference to the Turkish nation -- with all criticism to remain hidden -- on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey's security, historical rights and interests are at stake. The nationalist Movement Party is conditioned to defend Turkish nation, Turkish country, Turkish flag, and 1,000-year-old brotherhood law as a sacred relic. For this occasion, people, I remember with mercy and gratitude all our martyrs and veterans who have died in the name of our country and the flag. It's not over yet, and history hasn't ruled yet. Time is the cure for all things, and the will of the people is the cure for all things, and the power and protection of the Most High is above all things. God says God help and help the Turkish nation, and I salute you and the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0017par0125	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0018par0129	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, tomorrow is the first day of the month of the mourning fasting, and this is the first day of the battle, especially the Alevis, the Jaferis, the Nusayri...
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0019par0130	Mr. President, would you care to intervene in the General Assembly for general order and hum? It's the same painting from before. Anyone who doesn't listen, get out.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0017par0131	Mr. Bilgen, just a moment... Congressmans, the speaker is on the stand. Please, let's respect the court. We ask the MPs to maintain the same respect and listen to the preacher for every orator called to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0020par0135	I wish the prayers of all those who fast and pray for peace, for peace, for prayer. Again, it's Saturday, and every Saturday for six hundred weeks in this country, there's a meeting of mothers whose bones are common to their children. I also want to tell you that on Saturday, they lived with their mothers and especially with a century of pain, but that Berfo Ana, who had left us before Cemil Kırbayır could even smell the shirt, had gone from all of us to the politicians who had promised him that we had all gone into debt. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear MPs, if you're not making a distinction between deaths, Shii, Sunni, Turkmen, Kurd, Arab, then every day in this land there is an ashure everywhere. If for a thousand or four hundred years, the greatest shame of mankind since that atrocities, if there is no more blood in this land, if there is no more blood in this geography, if there is no more tears in it, I think the issue we're talking about, the future of Iraq, Syria, as well as the future of those who are looking at the resources of these lands, the ones who are counting, the ones who are planning, the ones who are planning, what is our share in this, the ones who are running these lands, the ones who are running them, and I think we need to question them. Dear lawmakers, aside from the number of children who have only lost their lives in the last three or four years, those who have been injured, those who have been crippled, those who have lost their lives along with the hopes of human traffickers. Of course, this whole painful painting is also about how we read these events, how we evaluate them. There's been a Lausanne debate on the country's agenda for some time now. Dear MPs, of course, the issue of Lausanne, at least in terms of Musul and Syrian lands, which are on the agenda...
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0021par0141	Mr. President, there's no response to your warning, so this image is not going to happen.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0022par0142	But Mr. Baluken, I gave the warning.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0021par0143	So, as acting Speaker of Congress, you've issued a warning, please make sure the MPs comply.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0022par0144	Congressmans, please, we beg you, let's hear it quietly. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0023par0146	... In fact, it's directly related to the agenda, because if those who think that Lauzan is not a victory were on the table in Lauzan, if they thought that they could include Musul (Musul) as well as Alekuk (Kerkuk) in Turkey, then if they saw themselves as such powerful, effective diplomats, I'll leave it to their self-esteem, there's nothing to say, or if they were planning to take the Süleyman Shah Turbkeel to the gates of Vienna, there's nothing to say when they're talking about it, but if you're arguing about the content, you're arguing about the island, you'll have a minimum history of who lost the island in the period of power. Dear MPs, the islands have been lost in Sultan Abdulhamit's time within a million square miles of the land we've lost. So, in the last quarter of the 1800th century, almost all of North Africa, Romania, Bulgaria, Greece, Bosnia, Montenegro, Erzurum, Kars, Eastwhiteite, Batum and, of course, Cyprus, who were left in exchange for bail to pay off debts to the British, was lost at that time. Now, on one hand, the islands at the bottom of our noses have been criticised by this dimension. If you say, "Obdülhamit," and you're organizing a memorial program about Sultan Abdulhamit, on the other, you have to face what you understand about success, what you understand about loss. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear MPs, of course, Lausanne is debatable. But if you're willing to leave history to historians when it suits you, and then you're hiding behind other arrangements about Lausanne, and you're making it a means of changing one agenda, then your reputation is debatable, nothing more. Because, two months ago, if you're going to use another statement about Lausanne on the anniversary of Lausanne and open another discussion about Lausanne today, your intention is not to open a serious confrontation, but to cover other arguments. Of course, Lausanne has dimensions to discuss. There was no secularism in Turkey, especially at the time of the signing of Lausanne. 1923 is a date prior to secularism, and minority status is regulated according to embezzlement law, which means a law with an axis of religion has been established. I wish that after 1924, Turkey could have been able to sit down and stop giving its citizens a status with a religious axis and make an arrangement where everyone has equal law, and if only those who opened the Lausanne debate today had done so with the intention of making amends on this axis. Of course, everyone in history is debatable, but when you have this discussion, you need to know your own standards, and two, you need to observe the rights of those you criticize. Dear MPs, in fact, the last period of the Ottoman Empire, in particular, contains very interesting historical cases, similar to the events we face today. You may be very uncomfortable, but for example, the March 31st case is a lot like July 15th, so let me just stand here and not go any further. A few days ago, a valued member of the government was saying in his assessment of Syria, that Turkey is paying the price for instability in Syria. If Syria's policies hadn't reached a dead end, the bombs would not have exploded in Turkey, and perhaps it would not have been able to strike on July 15th. Dear lawmakers, we must, of course, hold debates on July 15th with foreign policy debates and economic debates with democratisation debates. I'd like to run some samples. For example, there's an inspector's report on the exports of the Izmir people, and because of this inspector, he's in custody -- I won't give his name. Diyarbakır has been relieved of more than 4,000 education and training duties, while the deputy governor in charge of training is inside. Now, it's not a very old date, but three months ago, we set up a subcommittee in Human Rights Commission on rights violations within armed forces, suspicious suicides, human rights cases. But now it's all clear, every day, what happens in military high schools near the government is being broadcast about how tortures, abuses are being done, testimony is being made. Dear lawmakers, of course, cases like torture, abuse, against whomever they're being committed, for whatever reason they're being done, they're never acceptable. The Minister of Justice says there is no abuse. Dear lawmakers, anywhere in the world, no government can determine whether or not there is abuse or torture just through the statement of its minister. There are very clear mechanisms for how to detect this. If you trust me, if you really believe what you're saying, you'll call in international delegations, non-governmental organizations working on this area within the country; no, no, no, not at least, you'll send the commission of Congress to prisons, detention centers, detention centers, and that claim will be dismissed. But if you're disbanding the Prison Watch Board in your first decree, you'll never get rid of this stain. Obviously, I'm not going to say any more examples, but the young people who were said to have been linked to the RedHack group that was captured and released three or four years ago were again arrested, detained, and claims that they were severely tortured are being brought up by their lawyers. Now, shouldn't the Parliament do its part in this claim alone and do some serious research on this business? But unfortunately, when we explain it, we think it's all solved, it's all over, we think it can be covered up. Dear MPs, of course, what happened after July 15th, and what happened before July 15th, are worth discussing and discussing on the night of July 15th. The commission established here will only be operational when Parliament closes, and while Parliament is on vacation, July 15th is so vital to this country, that over 200 people have lost their lives, that the commission has not worked or been activated, I think it will be called a black spot in the history of this Assembly. Dear lawmakers, if the National Security Board is responsible for the categories of this country's terrorist organization, for its collections -- not according to us -- no administrative unit can use that authority without a court order. But, if it is -- I'm saying it because you claim it is -- it didn't start in 2013. In 2004, the National Security Council made decisions, and under those decisions are the signatures of valuable politicians currently under the roof of Parliament. Shouldn't you, then, ask about all the work that was done from 2004 to 2016, not just after 2013, but after 2004, to put it all on the table? Dear MPs, the number of journalists arrested only after July 15th was closed a few days ago, about 100 journalists were arrested, around 2,000 journalists were employed, around 30 channels -- radio and television channels. I'm putting the others aside, but a channel called Zarok TV has been shut down that publishes cartoons for Kurdish children. I think it was the heroes of this cartoon channel. (Personal applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Because if everyone is equal before the law, the teachers who use the famous telephone program -- ByLock (U) -- are immediately arrested, while public officials are immediately detained, while politicians who have done the same work, who have been contacted in the same network, if nothing is done about the ministers, the MPs, the mayors, will continue to be debated after July 15th, and even more painfully, the children whose father are being taught to watch cartoons with their own native language, if they have been seen so much, we can only serve these children to grow up with anger, hate, nothing else. Dear lawmakers, those who read and ignore the Articles 128, 122, of the Constitution, may feel that anything can be done by decrees, so they may feel that the power of the decree is limitless. You know, in England, where the cradle of parliament is accepted, it's famous, you know, the Parliament has every authority except to make women out of women, men out of women. I think that's how the decrees have been read in Turkey lately. I'm not saying how do you understand 121, 122, and how do you interpret them, because there's nothing to interpret. However, it is written very clearly in the Constitution of the Constitution, in which the decision will be issued, in accordance with the purpose of the state of emergency, but if you close a cartoon channel by linking it to a coup, we can only apply it to the extent of your imagination. Dear MPs, it was the anniversary of the birth of the Governor, September 30, 1237. He says: "O king of Israel, build a well with oppression, for you are devising a snare for yourself. Don't forget that hatred and hatred are after regret and death for every living thing. Man dies, but mankind is the only one who doesn't die. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the government's three or four years of research into Syrian policies show that even the ruling party's own voters, their own base, do not approve of these policies, find them not right, and even for the future, consider them a threat to Turkey's peace, to the safety of the region. Now, why don't we put aside our memorizations, other accounts, our partisan attitudes, and ask ourselves, "Why is Syria's policy unsuccessful and wrong today? " Dear lawmakers, the first requirement for being effective in the region, to be strong is to focus on both peace inside and peace in the region. Of course, there's a lot of words to be said in foreign policy, but I specifically feel the need to refer to one. Despite the President, the U.S. Senate has arranged a bill of justice against the sponsors of terrorism. We're one of the first countries to react to the failure of this law. When I first read the news on the Internet, when I saw these statements, I thought that when I saw these expressions of concern, an approach to Saudi Arabia, it was the State Department of Foreign Affairs, but it wasn't an explanation of the Turkish Foreign Ministry, and it was also called to President Obama. It says: "Stop this House of Representatives, the Senate, the Congress, the Congress, because this law has a crippling approach, and there is an intervention in the sovereignty. If you really want peace in this land, you have to see the interests of Saudi Arabia beyond your own people, you have to see your own people, your own lives, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your people, your people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, your own people, you have to see what you have to be in this country. Dear lawmakers, without mixing territorial integrity with administrative structure, we have to act as aware of Syria's territorial integrity, Iraq's territorial integrity, and re-examine our foreign policy from this point of view. The power we offer to the world, the power we defend, whether our ally really is OSO or not, the whole world knows it. Look at the maps, where did Ahrar-ush Damascus go? Are the regions under Nusra's control flown or vaporized? So, who did these organizations lose control of these areas? The whole world knows that we're not just acting together with the SOS. But unfortunately, because we hid what the whole world knew from our own people, after a while, when the ship went down, we'll understand the game of those who tried to lure us to Rakka, who tried to lure us to Mosul, but it'll be too late. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0024par0170	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ardahan MP Ozturk Yilmaz is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0025par0174	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to express our views on the extension of the Iraqi and Syrian resolution brought to parliament today. I salute the High Council. We have had several criticisms of the government's policy on Iraq and Syria earlier. Last year's review of last year's thesis, the only difference is that last year's thesis was called ADACT and so on, and this time it's called DEAS and other terrorist groups. I think that's pretty clear. There's no different writing in the text, but conditions have changed on the land. When Turkey began to fight Syria and Iraq for the last year, conditions in particular changed in terms of fighting terrorism. First of all, the Middle East has been redesigning more wings in the last year, borders in the Middle East, new alliances are being formed, multiethnic and sectarian structures are emerging, unrecognized states. In fact, in this geography, neither boundaries nor natural boundaries nor people within these borders are literally homogeneous. At this point, the Middle East is going through a transition process, and we need to know that this transition process will take a long time. Those who understand the change in this region, the ones who direct the change in this region, the ones who lead the change in this region, the strategists really win, but the ones who are dragged behind the change, the subcontractors lose to it. At first, we would like to point out that developments do not affect the Middle East alone, but also affect us. Twenty-six years ago, we talked about the territorial integrity of Iraq, the territory of Iraq. Today, Iraq has become three different wholes. Five years ago, we talked about Syria's territorial integrity, and today Syria has become a whole five. The change in the region is a truly disorienting change in the negative sense. Earlier, you know, Saddam was executed, hanged, Gaddafi's head crushed in the street, and Assad now wants to be overturned. Tomorrow, similar to the developments in these countries, Iraq, Syria, and even the developments in Yemen, and if the dynamics in the region start to be tampered with, this time in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman, Yemen, because the delicate structure of this region is also extremely sharp in this region. In the Middle East, new regimes are emerging, unrecognizable, but growing, using authority, such as a state. Perhaps after a while international law will have to stretch, to change the meaning of recognition in international law. We've made some really big mistakes about this area. Basically, when we were the best people to know this area, when we knew it from the inside, we acted as if it were a foreign hand, and we made some serious mistakes, lost altitude, lost ground. In fact, in the Middle East, despite all the painted words, we lost the Middle East and lost its people. If the leader of that country is bringing water from 40 creeks so as not to meet your leader for 30 minutes, if Syria supports your enemies, if the level of relations with the local Kurdish administration in Iraq has already exceeded the level of relationship with your state, then you have already lost.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0026par0180	Who's to blame?
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0025par0181	You need to wake up from this blunder and dawdle. We need to think that we have made a serious miscalculation with the Middle East. If we think that we can shape Syria through the SOC today, we are wrong again. If this regime change had not been carried out in Syria, if Syria had not attempted such an act or not been led to it, today we would not be talking about refugees, al Qaeda, ISIS, Al Nusra, or other terrorist organizations. What is happening in Syria today is a result, and we are trying to cope with a result that has been created. What happened to Syria, supposed to be a democracy? We delivered the country to a coup in our own country, a democracy to another spring, I'm afraid. The international community has not fulfilled its responsibility in Syria. On December 18th, the United Nations Security Council issued a calendar predicting the transition to Syria. All members of the International Syrian Support Group approved that calendar. According to that calendar, it was supposed to be the transition government within six months, the new constitution would be written, the elections would be made, a new administration and a new Syria would be formed in Syria; none of it, none of it was obeyed, and the tenth month of 18 months were consumed, and nothing had happened in eight months. The international community couldn't reach a ceasefire for a week, and nothing will happen in Syria. In Syria, it's like there's no boiler, there's a plan that's built on everyone's loss; everyone's being asked to lose, like no one's being asked to win, it's getting longer and longer. Today in Syria, unfortunately, it's the only profitable, let's not accept it -- it was discussed here before -- is the PYD. The PYD declared Rojava, and Rojava declared it, first from Afrin to Farphabur. See, in 2013, Salih Müslim came to Turkey in July, four months later, after Salih Müslim returned, it was declared Rojava. Then what happened? Then cantons were created. Then what happened? Cantons combined. Then what happened? In March, Rojava was declared federal territory in Syria, and what happened ten days ago? The election was made, and the PYD made a choice, and we will go to independence in October. And what did you do? You're asleep! These are the things we know, my friends, these are the things we really know. Now, before this operation, Turkey's depth in Syria was between Milis and Azez, seven kilometers, 10 kilometers, 15 kilometers; Operation Firat Shield extended between Cerablus and Afrin, between Azez-Mare, up to 98 km. So, the entire area we discussed, the area we talked about, the area of Turkey has increased from 15km to 90km across Syria. We are clear about Operation Firat Shield here... what did the President just say? We want to go west and south. Operation Firat Shield is being discussed how deep it will go today, and there is debate about whether it will cross to the east of Fırat. I'll tell you, no one will let him cross east because Turkey has lost all regional balances. For one thing, this was happening in Syria, and what happened in Iraq? When also in Iraq, the regime change began in Syria, and Syria was dominated by terrorist organizations, those terrorist groups reached the gates of Baghdad, and what happened? Today, a large portion of the disputed areas have also been seized by the hennymergence in Iraq. It's an operation for Mosul, which you call success. All the districts of Musul are under the control of the hepmerge, except Telafer, and Kerkok is under the control of the hepmerge. Now we need a new policy, a new language. Well, what do you have to do? We say that all the time. We know you're not going to listen to this -- you don't really need us -- but at least morally, we'd like to say it again: 1) Please give up your obsession with Assad in Syria and give up your Sunni conservation reflex in Iraq. 2) Even if you send the army, not to Rakka (Rakka) but to Mosul (Musul), Damascus, and Baghdad, it will remain a military operation and a successful operation. You do not have a broader strategy in both Syria and Iraq in terms of the territorial integrity of Syria and Iraq; please develop this strategy that is not. 3) The most important issue in this strategy is the territorial integrity of both countries. Let's please be sensitive about maintaining this territorial integrity. Let us act not with the forces that will divide Syria and Iraq, but with the forces that will keep them together. For example, what can be done about territorial integrity? For one thing, as of now, not every issue can be discussed with every country because the needs have changed, the priorities have changed, every country's priorities have changed. In that case, each country and I can share a common denominator in some matters that will be our priority. In Iraq, for example, members of the United States, Russia, Iran, Saudi Arabia and other regional security councils can be worked with the European Union and other countries in Iraq, for example, in the fight against ISIS, with the United States, with Russia, with the Central Government of Iraq. There is no struggle with the Iraqi Central Government against ISIS, there is no coordination, and Syria is not with Assad. It can be worked with Iran and other Arab countries. On the other hand, the PYD's separatist policy must be blocked for Syria to remain in integrity.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0027par0192	How well do you know PYD?
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0025par0193	Otherwise, it will break when this separatist policy continues. Therefore, it is necessary to act with elements that will ensure Syria's territorial integrity. Let's not forget, no matter how bad they are today, no matter how weak they are, the only two elements in Syria and Iraq that will provide territorial integrity are also the Damascus administration in Syria; the strongest is that it dominates 75 percent of the population, the other region dominates 34 percent of the land, the desert. That's exactly what happened in Iraq. When we don't coordinate outside the central government, we land here in a minefield. That's when we put the country's security at risk. 4) Please, let's give up this sectarianism. This sectarianism is destroying Turkey. In Syria, we don't like the minority Nusayri, Assad. But even though there are a majority in Iraq, we don't like the Shii, either. We need to find a balance now, and please, we have to do this in order to be able to ride in this geography. All the peoples in Syria's future, Arabs, Kurds, Turkmen, in this common denominator, must decide together the future of Syria; we must not dictate anything, we must not decide the future of Syria. (HPP) We just have to approach the transformation, the transformation from the perspective of Syria's territorial integrity. Other than that, it's the people's decision. Another issue: Who will control the areas where ISIS was drawn? Who controls the areas of ISIS in Iraq now, who controls them in Syria? We must have a policy on the post-Isil period, both in Iraq and Syria, we must do it. The purpose of this operation is not to design Syria; the purpose of this operation is not to harm the people there; the purpose of this operation is essentially to expel ISIS from the border and to prevent it from forming a corridor; it must be limited. Sending territorial troops to Rakka, sending territorial troops to Mosul (Musul) without a co-ordination, could really lead Turkey into a never-ending swamp. Let's not forget, Turkey is alone because of you. Because the international community unfortunately does not support Turkey in any way. It would hurt Turkey to take such a big risk in such an environment and drive the army deeper than others' gas, so let's be modest. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Another thing: Now, we're one in Syria... you're always saying that we should work with the government, with the opposition. We're telling you, we're ready to work together, come work together. Do you really believe that the SOS can provide Syria's territorial integrity as one today? You want to present this as a national army. Do you believe that if OSO went to Rakka, and OSO went to Damascus, he could have the Humus, Hama, and Lazkiyah? You don't believe me. Let's be realistic, let's not fool each other. You can't design Syria with the SOS. Well, does the SOC support Syria's territorial integrity? Yeah. Will the others support it? Yeah. Then we'll have to make peace with the elements that will support the integrity of the land even if it's difficult. If you're paying for the SOCO, if you're supporting it, you're writing openly to the National Security Council, and we're supporting the Free Syrian Army, even though it's not diplomatic, then you're controlling it. Make peace with Assad. You want strategy, you really want territorial integrity? Then you can't achieve territorial integrity without making peace, you can't achieve national unity. What else are you going to do with it? Sir, the United States of America is turning us away. You're already doing wrong if you don't know whether the United States of America should sideline or draw it right. The United States of America or other countries don't look at sectarians like you or anything else, which is looking at the future, trying to create a security system that can guarantee its own future. Are we at that point as a country? We're not. We're still being biased. I'd like to make another point regarding the Mosul operation. The Mosul operation, please, Turkey already has Security Council decisions on this issue. Will you join us? What do you want to accomplish when you participate in this operation -- first of all, a co-ordination with the Iraqi Central Government? So what do you want to do? The current account in Mosul is this: They want to give the east of Mosul, and the west of it is the Iraqi army. What are you going to do? You want in? What will you do with Telafer? What about the bond of Telafer? Now they're saying, "Sir, we're going to form with the Arabs, with the Turkmen, we're going to run this operation by their hands." Look, the Central Government is not mentioned, the Iraqi Central Government is not mentioned. Something is being done about Syria. Either there's a regime in Syria, which still represents the United Nations. If he's killing people, who's clean in Syria, and they're all covered in blood. So is there a dialogue with this? Not a word. So we want to design Iraq and Syria as separate from the forces on these two axes. That can't happen. This is failure. Let's just say we're going to be humiliated. Please take this seriously. It's important. All we stand for is the territorial integrity of these countries, stability. It is also because Turkey must know its strength, it must know its limits, and it must know its traps. The region has been set up with more political traps than any of the real traps we know of. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0028par0205	Thank you. The last word on behalf of the groups belongs to İstanbul MP Ahmet Berat Kolkar (Islamic Party) on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Konkar.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0029par0209	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on Iraq and Syria's resolution to our Parliament, and I hereby salute you and our great nation. Starting with my words, especially our 15th July martyrs and veterans, I thank and thank all our martyrs and veterans who have given their lives for the sake of our sacred values, for the sake of our country, nation, flag, and tyrant, our soldiers, our police, our guard, our gendarme. I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs. I also curse terrorists and coupters who betray their country, their nation, and their values. Dear lawmakers, on the night of July 15th, our country was attacked by one of the harshest and vilest attacks in its history. Our elected government, our country's independence, our democracy, our total nation and our homeland have been targeted. The junta, led by members of the Turkish Armed Forces, entered into the chaos and occupation movement to sever the strong bond between our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and our nation, to prevent the integration of the state with the nation. With many of our friends, members of lawmakers who could find a way to build our country's security, this place, the Assembly of the nation, was bombed by pilots, using our own planes, and fired a volley from attack helicopters. Our Republic Division, our Special Ops President, our National Intelligence Agency, our satellite communications center, our police departments and our people in the squares have been targeted as traitors. Our country has faced great humiliation and betrayal before the eyes of the world. The unofficial structures, which were disturbed by Turkey's normal, growing, growing, and independent existence, had long concentrated their attacks on our country to compress Turkey in every area, force it to surrender to its destructive ambitions, but so far they have not been able to get what they wanted from any of the attacks. They have not been able to find what they hoped for from the expedition attempt or the attempted December 17th or 25th coup attempt or the attacks by terrorist organizations such as PKK, DAİŞ, DHKP-C, such as the PKK. When the projects they launched for Turkey's isolation were nullified by our government's foreign policy maneuvers, they eventually took on such a despicable act of chaos and occupation. Praise be to God that these attacks have been nullified by the strong leadership of our President, the determination of our government and political parties, the daring initiative of our patriotic security units, but most importantly, by our nation's dignity, patriotism, courage and heroism to envy, and the traitors of the bloody terrorist organization have been caught red-handed. Their international dark focus has been largely exposed for many years, as well as their organisation and actors for treason. While all this is happening, the Western world, which claims to be the cradle of democracy and its values, has failed to take the expected stand with its politicians, with its media-reviewed bodies, with its organizations, unfortunately, and has failed to stand by democracy. The Western world did not react the way it was supposed to, until it became clear that this vile attempt had failed. After that, it was considered too late and some weak explanations were made that lost meaning. Incredibly violent attempts to kill civilians have been attempted to act as innocent acts by many Western countries and by their press-release organizations. In fact, officials of some countries and media organizations have not been able to hide their regret about the failure of this vile attack, and their intentions have been compromised. They've gone to the point of humiliating and disparaging our beloved nation, who's claimed democracy in the squares, who's prevented this attempt at the cost of their lives. People celebrate this noble conduct of our nation, which is facing warplanes, helicopters, tanks, guns and bullets, and their hearts and bodies. There are anti-lateral demonstrations in the streets. Although we gave many Western media agencies statements expressing the truth in the heat of the heat, they also tried to distort our interviews. It is absolute that some Western countries and media organizations who have unfairly criticised Turkey on every occasion in areas such as democracy, human rights and freedom of the press, have many lessons to learn from our people who have their democracy, freedom, values. We invite our Western counterparts who can't pass this test to become Democrats, to have the values they claim to defend, to be sincere. Some so-called democratic Western countries have tried to protect their bloody, vile and treacherous actors from this failed attempt. By ignoring the violence and betrayal of traitors who dropped bombs on their nation with their country's plane, their tank, their rifle, their own nation, they entered into a strange act of teaching Turkey a lesson in humanity, carrying news on their screens and corners about the alleged abuse of bloody terrorists who were taken into custody. We believe it would be right for those who try to teach Turkey a lesson in humanity to take themselves into account above all else. After a long time of this vile attack, some of our Western counterparts have not been gracious enough to make a statement, to visit for support, but we know that most of them are not due to a principled attitude, and so do our beloved nation. Western countries must not lose the proximity of Turkey, Turkey must avoid efforts to discredit it, and it must be removed from its Islamic stance and perspective as soon as possible. Mr. President, we, the esteemed lawmakers, have a history of centuries with the basin we're in as a nation and as a country. In accordance with the natural flow of history, the future of us cannot be thought apart from the destiny of this region we live in. Any development associated with stability, security and peace in our geography will have significant repercussions on our domestic and foreign policy. So it is not possible for us to be indifferent to what is happening in our nearby environment. Recent developments in our region have shown once again that Turkey and the peace and resurrection of countries in the region cannot be thought apart. With that understanding, our government's foreign policy aims to create a generation of peace, security, stability and prosperity around our country. We say that sustainable stability in our region can be established at every opportunity by the completion of peaceful and regular democratic transformation processes in accordance with the legitimate demands of the people of the region. Dear lawmakers today, especially in the southern land borders of our country, Iraq, Syria, and the growing climate of conflict in mujavir regions, have brought the right proportional growth of risks and threats on our national security. It is crucial and essential for the removal of chaos and instability in Iraq and Syria, where we have long-standing historical, cultural, humanitarian and economic ties, and for the removal of risks and threats from both human and national security. As Turkey, we are making every effort to end human tragedies in Syria and Iraq as soon as possible. Since the beginning of the crisis in Syria, according to U.N. data, about 13.5 million people, including 6 million children, have become helpless, 6.5 million people have been displaced in Syrian countries, and 4.8 million people have had to leave their countries. During the crisis, over 250,000 people were killed and some 1.2 million were injured. The situation in Iraq is no different. The number of people affected by the instability in Iraq has exceeded 10 million, and 4.7 million of them are children. Dear MPs, today the situation in Syria poses an open threat to regional security and security. As Turkey, it is necessary to end the conflict in Syria with a political solution, to restore stability, to deal effectively with terrorist organisations such as DAİŞ, PYD. All of this can only be possible through a real political transition process. As Turkey, we were on the side of the political process yesterday and today, and we pioneered efforts to revitalise the process. But even though the Syrian opposition wants to discuss the political transition process, although the political process favours it, its bloody regime and supporters in Syria have always fled and fled. Finally, the regime disregarded the ceasefire that was intended to be built in mid-September, again launched intense attacks on Aleppo, proving that it was seeking a military solution instead of a political process, as well as an obstacle to the access of humanitarian aid sent to Aleppo, while its opponents endeavored to discipline with hunger and poverty, including children and patients. As we have argued, the political process, which should be conducted in Syria, has its sides. Negotiations must be held between the regime and the opposition. Terrorist organisations such as the NYD should not also be at the negotiating table of false opposition, which was later derived. Dear MPs, as Turkey, in Iraq and Syria, we favour the protection of the territorial integrity and political unity of these countries. At the same time, we cannot allow elements and terrorist organisations to exist within our borders to threaten our national security. Operation Firat Shield, which we started in this frame, continues. In this operation aimed at combating the State, the removal of terrorist elements from our borders has been a priority. In our border zone and within our borders, hundreds of our citizens have been killed and injured by rocket attacks, and the response has been given so far, and this operation has been launched on the basis of the right to self-defense of the United Nations Code, which stems from Article 51. As you all know, Cerablus was taken from the EPA in a very short time, and as of September 4th, in the 98km section of our border between Azez and Cerablus, the EPA was terminated. With the support of the Free Syrian Army, it is still under way to go deep into this line and to clean up the interiors in the south. With this action, we have shown that despite the fact that any terrorist organization in this region, which is of great importance to our national security, is not going to be allowed to settle or impose a unilateral situation that the majority of the Syrian people do not want, that the PYD, the primary goal of the YPG, is not to fight DEVP, but that we are a country that has the capacity and determination of the YPG to directly intervene in the region, and that the international coalition is becoming a barrier to the fight against the State of Emergency, to all the attacks that we are dealing with, and that we are one of the most affected by crises in the region, and that we are one of the most fundamental actors in the region. Everyone should know that we can't remain silent at the end of our borders. And none of the actors in the region should be trying to impose politics on us about Syria. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the fragile and unstable political structure in Iraq, which still concerns us very closely, unfortunately continues. In this framework, our fight against DAİH and PKK terrorist organisations continues uninterrupted, in terms of humanity and national security. The ultimate goal of our work in Iraq is the permanent elimination of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and the EPA. We continue our consultations with the International Coalition as Turkey at the point that some militia groups, who act with sectarian saiks as an excuse for Mosul's clean-up, are not involved in this operation, are also remembered for atrocities and massacres against civilians. Our military elements in Başika will continue to contribute to the fight against DAİHlH. Until the government of Iraq restores its authority and sovereignty in Mosul. For more than 30 years, Turkey has been trying to make the Kurdistan Workers' Party, which has been continuing its low attacks on the locals from Kandil, a second terrorist base of the strategic position on the Syrian-Iraq border. The whole world should know that Turkey, which has largely cleaned up its traitors, will now do even more decisive and effective intervention in PKK and its extended terrorist organizations, will be saved from the tyranny of this subcontractorial terrorist organization in the first place. As part of our brotherhood, we continue to help people who have suffered from crisis in Iraq and Syria from the beginning of the crisis without interruption. Sunni, Shii, Arab, Turkmen, Kurd, Christian, Yezidi, our charities and organizations, without distinction, perform their duties with great sacrifice wherever they are needed and reach. Dear MPs, as Turkey, we always favour peace. As our Prime Minister said, we are eager and eager to increase the number of our friends, to reduce the number of our enemies. However, what we understand is that the peaceful foreign policy, no matter what the circumstances, does not mean that we should stay away from conflict in any way. It may be possible for a state to establish a peaceful relationship with another state, but only if the other party has the same opinion and will. Also, the regional and global conjunctive is decisive in the nature of this relationship. Today, in Iraq and Syria, many other countries, such as the United States, Russia, Germany, Britain and France, continue their busy activities in their own interests, while they try to shape these two countries in their own interest, and as Turkey, while we are affected by the greater scale of all of them, no one expects us to be drawn into our own shell or subject to policies that they impose on us. Just beyond our borders, some of the subcontractors that our allies support will try to form a puppet state, and we will remain silent. With all due respect, we will not tolerate any malicious action under our southern borders, west or east of Fırat, where terrorist organizations will settle down and launch attacks on Turkey. At this point, countries expressing friendship with Turkey and friendship with Turkey must come from thousands of miles away and give up their provocative activities against our country in Iraq and Syria, where we have brotherly law. Dear MPs, country and nation, we have been fighting for many years against the peace and security of our people, the subcontractors for our national unity. Finally, we were faced with the treasonous military action of the low-life terrorist organization, which exploits our people, our beliefs, our values, which we know is the same mind that operates and uses. This and other attacks have always been our greatest strength, our national unity and unity. On July 15th, our nation gave those traitors the answer they needed with their lives, and our state is doing exactly what they had to do in order to determine criminals and to give them the necessary punishments. While our government is fighting this treacherous and sneaky terrorist organization, we politicians need to be very careful, just like the night of July 15th, and then show the unity and integrity that has been established today. For no reason, we all need to make the members of a terrorist organization happy, their patrons, our martyrs, our veterans, and the saint nation who understands things very well, and who strives for our national unity, as if they were the defenders of a terrorist organization. As representatives of the targeted national will, we shouldn't compromise our unity as parliamentarians, we shouldn't pursue different and small accounts in this matter because the issue is the issue of the country, the issue of national security, the issue of the country. Friend, enemy, everyone must understand very well that we will never forget what happened on the 15th of July, our martyrs, our veterans, the trusts of our martyrs. Again, we will never forget the betrayal of July 15th and the traitors responsible for it, and we will never forget it. With these feelings and thoughts, I express our opinion that the extension of the debate on Syria and Iraq for a year would be the right decision for the national security of our country and the peace and interests of our nation, and on behalf of the AK PARTI Group, I salute you and our beloved nation with conversation.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0030par0244	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0031par0245	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0030par0246	Mr. Baluken, you're in the system.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0031par0247	According to the Civil Charter, I had a pre-voting request.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0030par0248	Yes, take a minute.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0031par0251	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it's a pity that millions of people have suffered the terrible loss of lives, burned-down city centers, and millions who had to leave their own home, their own land, both inside and outside, in the wake of war policies. The AKP government, which has been in power for 14 years, is responsible for this painting. We'd like to repeat once again this call for immediate return from this false domestic and foreign policy. We believe it is important for our country to maintain inner peace within itself and to support the peaceful, diplomatic, political solution efforts there on the basis of respect for the will of the Syrian peoples, especially the Kurds and the peoples of Rojava in Syria. So, as the People's Democratic Party, we call this declaration of war no. Despite the decision of other political party groups to support the declaration of war, the non-war party... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll be right back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0032par0258	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0031par0260	Thank you, Mr. President. Although the decision of other political party groups to vote for this thesis is evident, I ask that all lawmakers who do not favor the war and who believe in the destruction of war listen to the voice of their conscience. I would like to say once again that we must reassess these fundamental policies and vote according to them, even if they've been in the name of coup committees, which, unfortunately, have been in vain due to their 90-year-old war policies. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0033par0264	Thank you. Thus, the talks for the group are completed. Now, the first word for the individuals belongs to Niğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Kavalıoğlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0034par0273	Mr. President, members of the High Assembly, I have made a solemn pledge from Iraq and Syria to extend a year from tomorrow's deadline for the threat of terrorism against our national security and for the removal of the government's attacks. The second year of the Second Legislature of our Veteran Assembly wishes our country, our nation, and Turkey's Great National Assembly to be blessed, and I salute you all. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the very beginning of my words, the martyr and veteran of our country and of our sacred values, the hero who fought terror with his life, remembers our son, our soldier, our guard, with gratitude and gratitude, and I ask for God's mercy to those who return to eternity. On the 15th of July, I give thanks to our beloved nation, who have prevented the low blow of the traitor. None of us would have been here today if our nation hadn't defied its life in the attempt of a traitorous coup, shielding its body in front of the tanks. As the citizen of our hero soldier Omar Halisdemir, who shot the traitors in that dark night, I would like to stress that I am even more proud to be the representative of this honorable nation under the roof of this Veteran Assembly. Congressmans, it is imperative that our country's geographical position keeps security needs active and up-to-date. More than half of the world's conflicts are in a geography that concerns our country closely. For a long time, we've been dealing with terrorist attacks by the PKK, DEAŞ, and the same terrorist organization that served the same purpose and focus for our peace and security, our national unity. For these reasons, it has become even more important to be strong in our region, to remain a country of peace and stability. Our land and sea borders are surrounded by a circle of fire between the increasingly unstable and conflicting environments. The instability and chaotic situation in Syria and Iraq, our neighbours on the southern border, lead to the nesting and feeding of terrorist organisations. Due to these problems, risks and threats from the south to our national security have reached serious levels. The threat of the DEA, one of the most dangerous organizations in the world, is also evident in both our southern neighbours. The presence of PKK/PYD and YPG terrorist organisations, which we've been fighting for 30 years, and recent actions have made it mandatory for the thesis we've discussed here today. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, right next to us is one of the greatest human dramas in history. Today is the sixth year of chaos, instability, and destruction that continues in Syria. The Assad regime has been slaughtering people with unprecedented barbarism since World War II. More than 12 million people were displaced in Syria where more than 500,000 people died, while 6 million others were forced to flee the country. In the third week of September, more than 550 people died as a result of the air bombing in Aleppo. The bombing continues for civilians. More than 250,000 civilians have been under siege since the break of the truce. Many of these attacks have been expressed by the United Nations as war crimes. Mr. President, good lawmakers, Syria is not a country to be looked at from a distance and sad for Turkey. Turkey has not remained silent since the beginning of the drama in Syria. The Syrian community, where we share 900 kilometers of land, shares the same culture and values as we do. As Syria wept, we could not abandon Syria as many other countries did. By hosting over 3 million Syrians who had to leave their country, we demonstrated a sense of conscience. Our country supports all international efforts to protect the integrity of Syria and fight the DEAS from the start. The removal of this terrorist organization from our borders has always been a priority target. On the morning of August 24th, Operation Firat Shield launched in Syria with the support of the weather elements of the Global Coalition Against the DEAS is a step in this minor. Operation Firat Shield, as our President said, has a critical importance for the restoration of stability, peace and balance in a region dominated by despair. Dear MPs, such as Syria, are also directly influenced by the instability of our neighbour, Iraq, and the fact that terrorist organisations have a base here. For this reason, our country has taken great importance in maintaining stability and internal peace in Iraq. In this direction, he supported efforts in Iraq and internationally. Turkey has been the only country in Iraq to intervene in the humanitarian crisis in the first and permanent way. We opened our doors for more than 200,000 Iraqis, and built three camps north of Iraq for about 40,000 displaced Iraqis. In addition, humanitarian aid continues through our official aid institutions, local governments and NGOs. Despite the recent efforts of the Iraqi government and the International Coalition, DEAS continues to occupy a large geography in Iraq, maintaining its strength and efficiency. As it is known, from day one, the DEA has been targeting our Turkmen family members and areas where they live. Our Turkmen brothers are at the top of the most affected communities in the crisis. Since June 2014, more than 300,000 Turks have been displaced and tens of thousands have taken refuge in Turkey. We believe that our government's support for the security and humanitarian needs of Turkmen will continue. Dear friends, the DEA is not the only terrorist organization in Iraq. The PKK has been using Iraqi territory as a base for terrorist attacks on our country for 30 years. As Turkey, we are taking every precaution to end the attacks on our country by terrorist organizations in Iraq. Our armed forces are constantly conducting ground and air intervention against the PKK on our border with Iraq under the given permissions. As long as the threat of DEAŞ and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) remains, we must follow the necessary measures by obeying our international convictions. The act of terror is a crime, and the perpetrator, no matter what his alibi, can never, ever justify this crime. It is vital that United Nations member states fight against this crime together and cooperate in the fight against terrorism. It should also be added that in this region, the PYD is also important to fight the YPG. As our President stressed in his speech at the United Nations General Assembly, the primary goal of the YPG and the PYD is not to fight the DEAS. It is clear that the YPG (YPG) is now an obstacle to the Coalition's fight against DEAS. Our fight against the PKK/PYD and the YPG, which share the same leadership, must be continued with determination. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is a country that wants peace in its region, not war-seeking. As in the past, we continue to follow policies that support our national interests and contribute to the peace and stability of our region. As Turkey, we must take every precaution to ensure that terrorist organisations from neighbouring countries stop attacking our country. It's our national security that's sensitive as a country. So far 254 of our citizens have lost their lives and hundreds of our citizens have been injured in the attacks on the bomb and rocket attacks of the DEAS. These attacks have always been answered. Therefore, there is no question that we are prepared for developments that threaten our border security. I support the dissertation that gives the government the authority to be used if necessary against threats against our national security. I wish that the proposal would be a blessing to our country, unity, unity, integrity, peace, and security. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0035par0292	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0036par0293	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0035par0294	Mr. Tanal, what's up?
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0036par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. I listened to all the oratories, and I looked at the thesis. All the preachers said that a year's extension of the authority... We're looking at it now, a year's extension is indeed the same way with the Council of Ministers' recommendation, but when does a year's time end? From October 2, 2016 to October 2, 2017.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0037par0298	It will be extended to 30/10/2017.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0036par0299	Now, that's a year, and we're looking at 13 months. Since it's 12 months in a year...
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0037par0300	Thanks. You've noticed, Mr. Tanal. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0036par0302	So there's a discrepancy here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0037par0303	Mr. Akçay, please, just a minute.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0038par0306	Thank you. Mr. President, we, the National Movement Party Group, will vote on behalf of our group, as Mr. Günal put it. To vote for this thesis is not to be pro-war, first you have to express it, and we reject such a claim. On the contrary, Turkey cannot be able to stand by and watch some of the things that have come from a distance, and some of the countries that have come from a distance can't be indifferent to what is likely to be created against Turkey, in the face of grave developments that are directly concerned about the security, peace, and future of our country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0039par0310	Complete, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0038par0311	The main thing is Turkey's security; Syria's integrity, security, peace and prosperity. In this framework, we wish that the dissertation would contribute to our country, Syria, and peace and quiet in our region. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0039par0313	Thank you. Second and final speaker on behalf of individuals, İstanbul MP Engin Altay. Here you go, Mr. Altay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Please, Congressmans, I have invited Mr. Altay to the stand, and we expect silence. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0040par0322	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I wish that the second year of the 26th term, the year of the Second Legislature, should be good for our Parliament and our country. We'll understand the Muharrem moon. And I beseech God to accept all the meetings, and all the fastings of mourning. We're meeting with a thesis on Turkish Armed Forces operating across the border for terrorist organizations that are based on Iraqi and Syrian territory and which are threatening our country. In this regard, if the ruling party had listened to the warnings that the main opposition party had made in the past, it might not have even needed these statements. In advance, I'd like to say that as the Republican People's Party, we'll vote yes to this statement. When it comes to national security, our country's back, our citizens' lives and property safety, the Republican People's Party has no more priority political assessment and debate. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, the ruling party MPs can either come out or sit down.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0041par0329	Congressmans, please, we beg you, let's take our seats; a deep silence, please. We're closing in ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0040par0330	We'd like to ask the government two questions about this, and we'd like to advise the government not to. First of all, Mr. Secretary, we've been hearing reports in Syria for a month, and from television, from TSK reports that very positive, very good things have been done. By the way, we have 10 martyrs, all to God's mercy. Mr. Secretary, why has our soldier been there for a month, and why is the bomb still falling on the church, and the bomb being dropped on the church? While the people of the Church can't even secure their lives and property, we're very curious to know how our soldiers can eliminate threats against Turkey there. Second question, Mr. Secretary: I listened to your speech, and I didn't see anything very significant about your exit strategy from Syria. When you enter here -- Turkey is a great state -- you must have an exit strategy. Let the presidency promise you that after my speech, explain your exit strategy to Congress and our nation. And I have two humble advices. Don't overstep your clearance. Do not go beyond the reason you have received authority from this Parliament to step into the gas of some of the power centers that are calculating in the region, to get excited, to suffer, and to enter that land; notice this. And don't get carried away by the desire to go down. Do not make Turkey the successor to the climate of chaos that will be re-created in a bottomless well. Along with these warnings, we say yes, the Republic People's Party as well as the Turkish Armed Forces for terror organizations, but you have to give up war and jihad in the region and the world. Members of parliament, I would like to take this opportunity to address the latest issues on the agenda in Turkey: there is a very well-known proverb, for some reason the government does not honor this proverb; it has a proverb called "Burning yogurt." From this proverb, we see that the government has learned no lesson from this proverb. I don't want to do these polymixes: ▪ In your time, you used to be partners. It was this one, this one, this one, this one. We've been through this, Mr. President. He said, "May God forgive me, I apologize to my people." If it's good and it's bad, God will forgive you, and people will accept your apology, but if you get so much aah, if you start to burn more with paranoia, with your syndrome, with your dry age, then God will not forgive you, nor will the people accept your apology. Now, by turning off newspapers, televisions, by restricting basic rights and freedoms, you can't get out of this mess and you can't legitimize the fight against ▪. We said, "OH." This can't be happening. Mr. President said we're trying to understand your request for the State of Emergency, but in this Parliament, someone will always defend democracy. What you want, all the laws you need, we'll give you a bride, a builder, a positive contribution. No, we want OHAL. You said, you got it. In the picture that we've just arrived, there's been an extraordinary change in Turkey. You really can't see the coupgers, but you've made everyone who's passed by them pulsers, you've taken away their freedoms, you've fired them, you've done this to them; you've done this to innocent children, their young, their wives. Why should God forgive you, and why should people accept your apology? Now, we said, if you deal with coups and coups in law, the world understands you better, the world understands you better, but if you put the fight against the coup aside, you're illegitimate, you're no different from them. Not everyone in this parliament was here that night because Mr. Erdogan was being struck; everyone in this parliament was united like a fingernail because there was a coup to our Parliament, the parliamentary democratic system, the state of law. A, if there's a blow to Erdogan, we'll be quote-unquote there, if we're Parliament in all matters against the chosen, but you've turned it into a coup opportunism. Today, Mr. President made a statement here, filed a complaint, saying: "The attack is called the theater, the coup is called the coup, it's called the coup." That's not what we call the coup. It was a blow like honey, and if they could, they'd have wiped us all out. But with your practices, you strengthen the hands of those who say, "Strike the blow with your work and transactions." A friendly warning to you from Us: "Resist from this. Now, for two days, Turkey has been talking about the government's interviews. You're interviewing NYPD for National Education. What conscience would it be to eliminate a child whose father is KPSS, 88, because he is the head of the Republican People's Party? Shame on you! I beg your pardon, government! I expect him to return from these wrongs as soon as possible. This is unacceptable. We said, "A plague is better than a thousand words of advice." The government didn't understand that either. We said, "Don't bring politics into the mosque. The government didn't learn a lesson from this place." The coup has journalist's foot, artist's foot, writer's foot, judge's foot, soldier's foot, teacher's foot, bureaucrat's foot; that's what counts. Don't they ask the man? Doesn't he have any political legs? Come on, let's get this political foot together, you've got it all. Didn't you get the 20,000 from ByLock? I'm not saying, why can't you touch the political foot? Since you haven't touched the political foot, the world and the public are looking at you suspiciously, I'll tell you that. We said, "Newdoor spirit." I sincerely want the Yenikapi spirit to live, but there's only one thing we need to do, and I'll tell you here: if some of the AKP senior executives, especially Mr. President, return to the July 14th settings -- which I think they have returned to -- El Fatiha the Yenikapire spirit. I invite you not to return to your friendly, constructive, and well-intentioned July 14th settings, Your Honor, to return to the July 14th settings, which would be the main reason why Turkey has been dragged into a new chaotic environment. Gene said, "The terrorist can't have the right to be justified." Yes, no claim can be based on terrorism, but, Your Honor, no security reasons, no security concerns can be based on the destruction of basic rights and freedoms. You're both going to take away the basic rights and freedoms, and then you're going to yell at them on these podiums, which is unacceptable. There's a lot of local samples. Mr. Seyfettin, my childhood friend, I've known this boy since he was a boy. This kid went public because he committed suicide in prison. I've talked to the family -- I'm warning the government and the Assembly here -- me and the family think Seyfetttin Yivaltin didn't commit suicide, we think he was killed, and I invite the Minister of Justice to make a statement that will satisfy me, the family and the public. My time is up, and we wish our troops, the command council, the success of the Turkish Armed Forces in fighting terrorism. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We invite the government to exit the July 14th settings as soon as possible. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-01sit02spe0042par0351	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. Congressmans, this concludes the negotiations on the Prime Minister's thesis. Now, I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who do not... are accepted in a plea, blessed and blessed. Members of parliament, tomorrow begins the month of war, which is considered an Indian Christmas, based on the emigration of our Prophet Ezreti as an important turning point in the history of Islam. We also congratulate you on your month of combat and your New Year's of Hijri, with the acceptance of all the meetings on this occasion. Dear MPs, to discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues in order, Tuesday (October 4th 2016) at 15 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Good evening, and I'd like to invite you all to the reception of our House on October 1st, thank you.
