tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2016 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2014 Central Management Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll be negotiating in the sixth round today. The sixth round includes the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the Ministry of Competition, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the Energy Market Editing Institution, the National Bor Market Research Institute, the Turkish Atomic Energy Institute, the Mining Study and Search General Directorate, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, the General Directorate of State Water Affairs, the General Directorate of Meteorology, and the budget and precise accounts of Turkey's Water Institute. 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014 The commission and the government are in place. Members of parliament, as it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. In the sixth round, I read the names of the members of lawmakers who were quoted on behalf of their groups and individuals: On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Mevlüt Karakaya, Adana MP; Izzet Ulvi Yölter, İstanbul MP; Mustafa Mit, Ankara MP; Seyfettin Yılmaz, Adana MP; Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group: Ayhan Bilgen, Kars MP; Erol Dora, Mardin MP; Sırrıyya Önder, Ankara MP; Mehmet Ali Aslan, Batman MP. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group: Harun Karacan, Eskişehir MP; Ziya Altunyaldız, Konya MP; Özcan Ulupınar, Zonguldak MP; Faruk Çaturoğlu, Zonguldak MP; Mehmet Uğur Dilpak Kahmanmarash MP; Zeki Aygün, Koyeli MP; Ahmet Tan, Kütahya MP; Hacı Osman Akgül, Gütahhane MP; Mustafa Şükrü Nazlı, Kütahya MP; Dragon Openapı, Elazıg MP; Uğur Aymen, Manisa MP; İbrahim Aygün, Aydın, Antım Hağcı, Hağık MP; Ahmet Tan, Kükın MP; Ahmet Tan, Küçıkıpım Al-Kıtımımı MP; Mustafa Küpımımımımı MP; Mustafa Bolmıpı MP; Mustafa Kutı MP; Mustafa Şütüpı MP; Uğur Ayyüprı, İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; Uğur Ayyazı, Manizazazazımı MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; Şımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımı MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; Şımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımı, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın Bay Hağ, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın, Aydın Hacı, Aydın Hacı, Aydın Hacı, Aydın Bayımımı On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group: Çetin Osman Budak, Antalya MP; Murat Minister, İzmir MP; Ahmet Akın, Balıkesir MP; Tacettin Bayır, İzmir MP; Namik Havutça, Balıkesir MP; Barış Karadeniz, Sinop MP; Şerafettin Turpcu, Zonguldak MP; Uğur Baytutan, Artvin MP; Irfan Bakır, Isparta MP; Erdin Bircan, Edirne MP; Turpcu, Kıreli MP. In the name of his subjects: Lehinde Jahan Pektaş, Süzhane MP; against Erdal Atash, İstanbul MP. The first statement now belongs to Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0002par0058	Mr. President, before I begin my remarks, three of our soldiers, one of whom was a lieutenant, were killed in a shootout yesterday in Mardin Dargateit. I wish our martyrs the grace of God, the patience of their relatives, the condolences of the Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, I ask that the Ministry of Customs and Trade's budget for 2016 be a blessing first. I don't know if our customs minister is here, but I'd like to start by saying thank you. The Ministry of Customs and Commerce... although it may seem a little convenient to say the two of them together, when you look at the functions and duties of the Ministry, there's actually not much harmony. When we say Customs, it's as if foreign trade exists in it, but there's only internal trade, foreign trade depends on another ministry. These have been mentioned in the commissions, and I won't dwell on them for long, but here's my thanks. There's an explanation, it says: "There's a great deal of trouble in the business world, no one pays the checks or the bonds. In fact, no one's looking at your check these days, and no one's got the cash. For that, I thank you, at least, for expressing these facts. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to consider some business matters, the challenges of everyday life. Of course, profit is important in business, but another thing that's as important as profit is cash flow. A business, a company, a business, a business, even if there's a problem with cash flow, he can't collect it, he can't pay it, he can't pay it, he can't get bad results that go down, or he can get bad results that go down. In our country, the financing of trade is mainly made by loans, loans, loans, which companies offer to each other, again to customers. Recently, if you'll notice, we've seen all trust indexes drop, trade, economic trust indexes. The recent decline in the February Economic Trust Index was around 15 percent, which shows the worst situation in the last four years. The decline in this trust index shows the lack of confidence in markets, trade, market, and people are slowing down trade here. It's the same situation we're going through these days. Dear lawmakers, there really is a fire. We need to realize these things, take the necessary precautions as soon as possible. Look, when we look at the executive bankruptcy files, all the ruling people who come up here, they start with an obsession, an obsession with 2002, they measure everything according to 2002, and our Customs Minister, in one speech, tries to find success by comparing the control technology used in customs with technology 16 or 17 years ago, but in many cases, no one tells 2002, or 2003. Of course, a glass has a full side, and it has an empty side. There's no objection to being told what's full, but it's not fair to ignore your empty side when you say what's full. Dear lawmakers, look, when we look at the executive bankruptcy files, we see that the file, which was around 9 million in 2003, went up to 24 million in 2015. He's become a serious liability in court. Again, when we look at the number of protests of the bonds, 816 thousand bonds were protested in 2003, which was less than 1.7 per thousandth of the country's in-laws at the time of the Justice and Development Party's rule, those proportions rose to about 7.1 per thousand in 2015, at least 5.1 per thousand in 2015. The Czechs are starting to create a major problem. You know, prison sentences for checks were lifted in December 2009, and after these prison sentences were lifted, confidence in the checks was reduced in the trade, and they say, however, there is also a growing issue of fraud and fraud -- one of the major problems expressed by trade clients, and a measure should be taken on this issue. No one trusts the check every year. It's a clear printout of times when the economy is difficult, when it's difficult. Dear lawmakers, the postponement of bankruptcy has been passed on to us as a major problem in our business life again, as a complaint. You know, in the event of debt collapse, companies would like to appeal to the original court of law, appeal to the original trading court, and present a project for the future, and ask for a postponement of bankruptcy. There are serious complaints about that, too. In fact, there are significant complaints and complaints that they're being handed over keys. The demand for a delay in bankruptcy, which was 5,500 in 2009, is said to be around 12.339, according to 2014. Again, unilateral companies were brought in by the Turkish Trade Law. These single-substantiated companies are also subject to significant complaints that the capital will actually cause disintegration. You know, we're trying to keep the land from falling apart in agriculture, we're saying that we can't take advantage of the scale economy at every turn, but we're trying to bring it in, maybe in some countries, but we're trying to bring it in, because we're showing family companies, but after the second generation, after the third generation, that would be a major factor in the development of partnership culture. Again, at the moment, the control of these companies, unfortunately, is not being done, and the issue that can be used for different purposes stands out as a risky situation. Dear lawmakers, there are around 110,000 anonymous companies today; only 5,000 can be inspected, and the rest will be audited by independent supervision, said. He's also being audited by the Public Surveillance Agency, and a significant part of that is already the foundation for public benefit, or some other business. I'd also like to point out that there's a serious lack of control in that sense. Some problems with our tax legislation have again become a major problem in business life. Taxes continue to be taxed on unearned gains. When we look at future sales today, businesses pay their taxes on future sales without collecting trades. They have to pay the added value tax the next month, with a temporary tax application, again in three months, without realising, non-realized revenues, revenues, benefits, before they're even taxed. Hence, there must be an arrangement on such matters. We, the National Movement Party, are the value-appropriate tax on future sales, and again, we have stated in our election statement that the revenues in future sales will not be taxed without actuality, without actual gain, without realisation. Look, a classic of the Justice and Development Party, the AKP, is that in this short period, I was able to get a closer look at it within this roof of Parliament. It's when you give something away, it's when you actually take it from the other side. In these early years, for example, an inflation accounting application was introduced in 2003. The Minister of Finance at the time, God bless him, Mr. Unakitan came out, told them on TV all the time, told how much this inflation accounting would help business. Yes, it would have been, but this application was only implemented for two years. As they brought this practice, they also took some of the applications of our commercial firms, our businesses, to reassess, cost indexes, and so on in their favor, unfortunately, they took the LIFO method of stock-sponsoring. Thus, two years later, businesses lost a number of applications to improve the impact of inflation in their favours for 20 years and longer, as they failed to implement inflation accounting. Look, I want to say that if you look at the compound rate of revalued rates published in 11 years, there's a 125 percent increase, and if you put it as a correctional coefficient, it corresponds to a 2.15-percent corrective coefficient, and with this application, the tax loads are increasing. There's a lot of serious complaints about that, too. I mean, it looks like we're giving from one side, but we're taking from the other. Didn't we do the same thing here the other day at a minimum wage increase? On one hand, we raised the minimum wage. What's the meaning of the minimum word? It means the least, doesn't it? A limit is the limit from the bottom. All right, we made $1,300, very good. We, the National Movement Party, expressed it as 1,400 in our election statement, but we decided to make it 1,300. What happened? After that, we started taking it back from one side with what the old-timers call an integrated taxation system, because of the lack of income tax tariffs. When we look at the last three months of the year, there's no such thing as minimum. Now you're going to say, what's the minimum salary of 2016? 1,300, but that's out of the question. Again, look at the officers, the pensions, the raises, for God's sake. So, after this month, after March, they start falling back. I mean, it looks like you're giving from one side, but you're taking from the other, unfortunately. The Ministry of Commerce is talking about licensed storage. In fact, just like their 2023 goals... you know, in 2001, when the Justice and Development Party was still out there, while the President of Justice and Development Party was in prison at that time, 2023 targets became state policy. It was written in the 8th Annual Development Plan, and it was in the archives. Nevertheless, their 2023 targets were expressed as goals set by representatives of the Justice and Development Party (AKP) at all times. That's what licensed storage is like. The licensed storage was an application that had been laid up and all the legislation laid out by the ministries responsible for the National Movement Party during the 57th Government, while the Justice and Development Party was still nameless. But in the meantime, we see what licensed storage means, unfortunately -- I see -- that they don't understand -- that they see licensed storage as just a modern storage unit. However, we wanted to bring the goals of licensed storage into a structure that could resolving the market, with long-term transactions, with long-term markets, with future markets, with markets, with option markets, with future prices, especially in agricultural products. This should be combined with product markets; it should be supported in some way by future business markets. But the product markets don't work either, not when you tell them about the future trading markets, I'm afraid. Why? Because in order for them to function in a healthy manner, a healthy economic structure needs to be developed. Look, we're talking about prices these days. Prices are going up, price of bread goes up, price of milk goes down. We, the National Movement Party, proposed the agricultural products intervention institution, and we did the work on it before 2002 at the Earth crop office, we did it, we did it, we did it, we did it, but I don't know why, you didn't put it into practice. Congressmans, look, meat prices are going up these days, milk prices are going up, vegetable prices are going up. I see the AKP ministers are doing this: they're interfering directly with the markets, they're trying to bring narch, they're trying to put a price on it. So they think the markets will be priced by instructions. It's been thirty years since I switched to the free market economy. So the prices are going to fall. The prices are not going to go down, you said, what happened, did they go down? He didn't fall. What will you do when the son of the hand says, "I don't fall, I don't apply"? He said, well, what can you do? He said, "I'm not selling." How are you going to sell it? Not by saying so, not by instruction, not by shouting, not by scaring, not by threatening; it's politics. Look, these are the results, these are the wrong policies that you've implemented in the past, these practices in the past, unfortunately, have produced these consequences today. These are your own works. Dear lawmakers, look, if you go with this head, it seems to me that the ministers of the Justice and Development Party will be able to bring in the report card practice in the 1970s -- et cetera, bread. So maybe they talked big, and they kept trying to compare the applications of the 1940s from these platforms, but that's what we're getting at. If we're looking for a wrong criminal around here, we have to turn around and look in the mirror ourselves first. Look, you were going to realize that meat prices were going up, milk cows, when you went into town. When you didn't support the farmer, when you gave him zero credit and blew it, you'd realize that. Dear lawmakers, of course, are having serious problems with business, K documents. Today, a K document costs $20,000. So this is an invitation to international transport companies, like in the banking system and in other parts. Again, we have real serious problems with business, commercial life. They need to be taken care of as soon as possible. I pay my respects to all of you for listening. I wish to thank you for a better business life.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0003par0084	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0004par0085	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0003par0086	Second word on behalf of the nationalist movement group...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0004par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0003par0088	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0004par0091	Mr. President, I always say that politics is a matter of kindness and conscience. Mr. Metiner, MP of the Justice and Development Party, has a statement in the newspapers today. I'm sure, hopefully, it's over the top of the line, a statement. If he doesn't make a correction, I'll give him a proper answer this afternoon. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0005par0093	What, what explanation?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0004par0094	I don't know, you know what you're saying.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0006par0095	Yes, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0005par0096	What explanation? Tell me, let me know.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0004par0097	Here's the Homeland paper. Shame on you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0005par0098	What explanation, what explanation?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0007par0099	Let's take a look at that later, lawmakers. 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 I) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014 The second word on behalf of the National Movement Party Group is Istanbul MP Izzet Ulvi Yölter. Here you go, Mr. Orender.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0008par0146	That's a shame, that's a shame.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0009par0147	I'm out this afternoon, so tell me when you're here, and we'll talk.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0008par0148	I don't know. I'll talk to you whenever you want! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0009par0149	Let me know, what newspaper?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0010par0150	Your time is 18 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0008par0151	Yeah, send him a Vatan paper. Let's get one of the Kavas in here.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0009par0152	Let me see the paper. When you're here, say it to my face...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0010par0153	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0011par0154	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, since Saturday, we've been interviewing the 2016 Central Management Budget Bill and the Final Bill for 2014 under this blessed roof, talking. We're in the sixth round of budget today. In this scope, I'm here to represent our party group as part of the budget and final account talks of the Energy and Natural Resources Ministry, the Energy Market Editing Agency and Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency. At the beginning of my words, I salute your honorary committee and our dear citizens who are watching us on their screens. We are negotiating the 13th budget prepared by AKP governments. We're going through a regular, sloppy budget process again.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0010par0157	Congressmans, please... there's a preacher on the stand, so let's not ruin the hat. Here you go, Mr. Orender.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0011par0159	AKP's lack of excitement, aimlessness, lack of enthusiasm have sunk into the entire budget, complicating everything. There is not once intimacy in the 2016 budget, nor does hope glow appear. Above all, even in the Parliamentary General Assembly, the AKP's ranks point to us dramatically how much the budget is valued, how much the budget is valued. We're budgeting for the Turkish nation, we're drawing up a year's route of the Turkish state, clearing its way, authorising the government on national resource distribution and governance, but the government is greedy, unprepared, visionless and inadequate. The budget is a burden, as it were, because there is no commitment or compliance to budgetary principles. We know that budgets are both a financial and legal and political document that demonstrates how much money the state is going to invest in what areas, how much income it will raise from what areas, and how much the economy will take in the year. Therefore, budgets are as important as economically, as are their social aspects. In order to be trusted in budgets, they must be based on predictable goals and solid resources. Above all, it is essential for the budget to grasp and consider social needs and demands. Therefore, it is imperative that the budget be realistic and sincere. On the contrary, AKP's budgets have hit the wall and have provided no benefit or prosperity for our nation. For 14 years, the AKP has been doing budget skating, not remembering the farmer, not the pensioner, not the worker, not the clerk, not the tradesman, not our narrow and medium-income citizens. The budget has been earmarked to the mercy and pleasure of a handful of creamy crusts, a small under-privileged minority. Before we talk about energy policies, it's my sincerest wish and expectation that we all weigh these facts on a scale of conscience. Dear lawmakers, we will discuss energy, but we will not say anything to those who drain our energy. We'll share our thoughts on the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, but we'll ignore those who consume our national energy, who consume our values. Where is such a world? Who would share such a deviation and error? Do you realize that our spirit transformers are down, our moral and justice plants are down? You know, and you see, our lines of unity and brotherhood have been attacked, honesty is called by candle, law is called by cry. Those who exploited spirituality drained our energy and destroyed our will to exist together. We've removed 9 years of debris. They're reducing our energy, and we're looking at it with an example. We're shutting down nine years of parentheses. Those who say, "We steal our energy, we see it as an example. The 90-year ad break is over. Those who say "oh," draw a high tension line between us, and we follow it with anxiety. Turns out there's a lot of people who resent the existence of the republic. Turkey's energy is clearly wasted and wasted. Turkey's horizon is polluted, closed. Turkey is locked up, its resolve is broken with global violence and attack plans, its struggle is damaged. Today, energy is undoubtedly the basis for playing games on us, as well as the savagery performed in neighboring geography. For centuries, the bloody face of imperialism has turned to energy sources. For centuries, each line has been staged within us and around us, with hatred, hostility, with the desire to gain more and more and more. This is sometimes called the East issue (sometimes the historical Sharq matter) (sometimes the Great Middle East Project). In recent days, Erzincan, the song issue is over. He has spoken in vain and rowed in vain. Years have passed, calendar leaves have been cut off like dry leaves, but actors and cruel targets have never changed. For the sake of oil, civilizations have struggled, governments have clashed, oppressed people have been slaughtered. The struggle for access to energy sources and control has opened up grounds and environments for Vandalism, which humans rarely witnessed. We know that raw materials are an important factor in determining national power. Energy, a vital place among them, is an important topic that directly affects all mankind. To this day, states that have led world politics have set traps for energy-rich countries from the Middle East to Africa, playing with their sensitivities, keeping their intentions alive. In the 1920s, French Prime Minister Clemenceau was able to say that a drop of oil was as valuable as a drop of our soldiers' blood. The emergence of oil has led to significant changes in the state's balance of power. The purpose of the calculations on the Ottoman Empire was fundamentally effective, decisive, undermining the movement of separatist, destructive and disruptive dynamics in the Middle East. Today, deep in the wave of rebellion called the Arab Spring, the search for energy reserves is decisive. The main reason for the tension in the Caucasus must be called here. It is not in vain for the former United States Foreign Minister Kissinger (born November 14, 1974) to define oil as the most important strategic substance in the world. Because of this strategic issue, the Middle East has been under constant siege of hostility in the whirlpool of constant conflict. The United States of America, which defines oil as strategic matter, has, in turn, staged its attacks on the Middle East, the Middle East, Muslim geography in the Middle East, that have not been searched for the Crusades. The AKP government has always turned a blind eye to this, and has even partnered with the Grand Middle East co-chair. (Applause from MHP rows) PKK, NYD, ISIS, El Nusra, al-Qaeda and other terrorist organisations have been used to control energy sources as substituted puppets, trigger-happy triggers. Terrorist organizations were used as subcontractors to penetrate the Middle East, silence rival states, regional countries, neutralize them. The aid of the United States of America's arms will not be interpreted in any other way. The explanation and explanation of Russia's bombing of the Turkmen and the Middle East as an excuse for ISIS to co-operate with terrorist organisations must also be discussed in this framework. The goal is to maintain control of the pathways and throats that provide energy sources and energy flow. For this reason, the embezzlement of the energy basin to reliable, cooperative, and Western satellite governments in the Middle East has always been intended. In the Middle East, hundreds of millions of people are hungry and exposed. The conditions of poverty are everywhere in the Middle East. Under the earth is poverty, poverty, hunger, unemployment, fatigue. There are hundreds of millions of people who want a little democracy, a little freedom, a slice of bread, and every day their cries are ringing in our ears. In contrast, the existence of governments that deliver Western plans, who hear no human and conscientious call, is also a fact. This injustice, this violence, this insensitivity, is very significant in the way that the Middle East shows its misery, its weakness, its ceiling, and its base are torn apart. Over the years, kings, sheiks, who have been counting petrodoes in their palaces, who live in luxury, who have gone to waste, who have turned their backs on their own people, who have modeled their violent plans. It is a national and humanitarian duty for all of us to see these things, to examine these historical facts correctly. There are human dramas happening in neighbouring geography. Economic collapse in neighbouring geography is extreme social turmoil. I am a Muslim. No one who has a conscience will be able to be insensitive to these developments. We're taking the lead in the Middle East. We're shutting down 100 years of parentheses. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey has a geographical property of strategic importance and value. Unfortunately, although there are many things to discuss about energy, there are many things to discuss, it will not be said that we are, as a natural resource, fully qualified. However, the subject of energy, or natural resource at first, is clear, but it is possible to overcome it with human wealth, human energy, national energy, to complete it and to make it up to you. It's clear that our energy imports are growing. Turkey is an energy-dependent country. During the AKP administrations, Turkey has announced its candidacy to become the transit route of energy, the terminal country, the bridge country, the transition country, from the beginning. Currently, the share of energy in total imports is around 18 per cent, and the serious rate is increasing day by day. When we are called energy, we understand enlightened consciences, warm homes. Unfortunately, the AKP government understands indirect morality the commissions taken from the tenders when they are called energy. When we are called energy, we see the sweat of the forehead, the hope of the water. When the AKP government is called energy, it sees the lines of bribes, the wells of humiliation, and it sees the forbidden quagmires. So, when we look at energy, we see the resources that are waiting to be processed, the mines that are dying to come out, and you, the government, the spoilslayers and opportunist parasites, watching the order of looting. Where we look is different, where the government stands and where the government looks is different. There's everything but energy policies right now, and it's not just one, it's getting closer and closer to energy in a national way. He is Our Guide, and the Forbidden One is Our Rejection. Others have oil, but we have sun. I'd like to point out very carefully: you know how few sunny days are in Germany over the year, and Germany points out as the country that benefits the most from solar energy. Others have no natural gas, no worry; we have streams, rivers, lakes, water, for short. Speaking of which, I find it appropriate to give an example, a reminder. Norway also provides more than 90 per cent of electricity production from hydropower plants. Others have cannons, they have rifles, we have an unchanging path, we have an unbending arm, and everything is in the square. Our Minister of Energy and Resources is here. He's the new Minister. For 14 years, he's been taking off in the energy field, turning the corner. Now it's up to him to take them out, even bring them to justice. What conscience would lie to them? What kind of man and man of mercy will be able to make such an exaggeration out of it and throw mud at it? It's not just smoke from the chimneys of thermal plants, Mr. Secretary, but 14 years of irregularity, injustice, nepotism. One of the fellow businessmen left, the other one didn't come? Hasn't the energy ore of the nation been robbed for 14 years? We are ashamed of the servant, we are afraid of God because we know that we will answer to both the supreme conscience and the court. We believe in it, we make our decisions accordingly. Dear lawmakers, there are many things to say in the field of energy, of course. Turkey must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, must, I have in my hand targets from the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015-2019 Strategic Plan. These targets are planned for supply security. For example, because the production of electricity energy dependent on natural gas is a significant risk, natural gas will be reduced to electricity production, importing resources will be able to diversify countries, and it will be targeted. Dear friends, Turkey is now a strategic gas-addicted country. It is dependent on about 55 per cent of Russia, and on a significant proportion of 20 per cent, and on nearly 25 per cent of Iran. This addiction is a danger to our national security, and Turkey's dependence on natural gas and energy is often closed and locked in both foreign policy and domestic policy. Therefore, it must be ensured that renewable energy sources are diversified by reducing natural gas dependency in order to increase our maneuverability. But if there's no natural gas, we'll burn turds. It doesn't make sense. Transport and distribution infrastructure investments to support sectoral growth in electricity energy and natural gas were targeted by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources to continue and complete on time. But so far there has been no satisfying, satisfying development. The capacity to store natural gas in the current situation is not enough, it is an important determination. The shortages and inadequacies of natural gas storage must be quickly restored, and our nation's expectations on this matter must be met. In renewable energy sources such as solar, wind, hydroelectricity, geothermal, biomass, wave and currents, we have an important potential for both the production of electricity and the production of heat. It's not about talking about potential, it's about the depth of the horizon, the wealth of political and visionary vision that can stimulate that potential. Unfortunately, that's not in the AKP government either. The government is talking about the development of financial resources to ensure that this potential is fully alive. Well, Mr. Secretary, as you're here, I'm telling you, is anyone holding your hand? We are aware of your political power, and we see your activity in the AKP. Then please do it immediately. Activate that potential, find funding, develop it. There's talk of updating the issue, the legislation of renewable energy sources. The aim is to strengthen transmission infrastructure and boost investor awareness. Our country is able to become an energy transit center by its position, yes, but Turkey should not be a candidate for being a bridge, a terminal entirely. At the same time, it should be able to carry energy strategically between the east and west corridor, but also to achieve a policy that can provide maximum benefit and income. Sadly, however, it is not possible for the AKP to be able to do so now. There is an important dependency on oil and natural gas. The short - term fixation of this external addiction is not promising, nor is it seen as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have a lot to say, but I'm out of time. I salute you all. I wish you a good budget. And I wish that this budget would be good for our nation and bring us hope.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0012par0180	Thank you, Mr. Orender. Mr. Metiner, you will make a correction at the request of Mr. Altay. Here, I'll open it, just a minute...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0013par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Two days ago, on the seat of the General Assembly of Turkey, a CHP MP, whose name I will not mention, made a very poor attack on our President. Let's take him to psychiatric treatment. He said something offensive in his statement. I said this at the press conference I held yesterday... that there are very respected politicians in the CHP, and I say it all out loud. I only said that this MP, who insulted our President and I didn't think his name was worth mentioning, and some of the MPs who attacked with a similar understanding, had broken out of the asylum, broke out of the asylum, had been elected to the CHP MP as much as there were bad people in his mouth. I don't mean the whole CHP Group. I apologize to the CHP Group if such a perception has arisen, but we consider it necessary for our group to answer in a language that understands everyone who insulted our President in such a way. I hope our words are clear in that frame. Respect is mutual.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0012par0187	Thank you, Mr. Metiner. 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 I) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014 The third word on behalf of the National Movement Party Group belongs to Ankara MP Mustafa Mit. Dear Mit, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is twelve minutes. Here, I'll start your time.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0014par0236	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my words, I ask the grace of God to all of our martyrs who have died in the fight against terrorism. I wish our wounded veterans a speedy recovery in the same fight. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're here today to discuss the budget for 2016. From the beginning of these budget talks, our friends from political parties here have expressed their opinion from this bench. During these talks, the government and the Commission do not listen, converse among themselves, and are not interested. So when I saw it like this, I thought of Homongolos, a series called Letters to the Dead, which occurred to me. A writer named "Homongolos" writes letters to the dead, saying: "Here, do this, do this; these are good; when you wake up in the morning, walk like this, like this, like this, dust." At last, you were already dead, so why should I tell you this?," he says. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, now, as I begin my words, I salute you again. I'll try to tell you what our party thinks of the Bor Institute and the MTA. My dear friends, we're discussing the budget here. And as we talk about the budget, we're talking about this budget, which is the constitutional right of our House. The authority to budget belongs to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our Parliament shall receive this authority from Court Law No. 5018 and the Law on Financial Management and Control 6085. The budget technique would require a clear demonstration of the needs of institutions for 2016, while the law provided symbolic figures that we would accept as trace value, and the actual distribution was left to the ministers. So the House's budget, which includes handing out resources, is controlled by the back of the law. The Sarf places were supposed to be announced in this budget today. Otherwise, at the end of the year, we won't be able to compare the deviations in actual events. In addition, in this method, unsupervised behavior is sought out of control. Another issue is that the Court, which performs the control function of parliament, is far from satisfying members of parliament and public opinion with its structure. The Court is the subject of discussion. The Court is not pleased either, I suppose. The audit reports are as superficial as they appear to be in the direction of illegal prosecution. I want to come back to the boron mine from our underground sources here. Dear lawmakers, the boron is one of the strategically important mines. There have been evaluations and debates over Bor for many years. I believe you all know how important this is. 74 percent of the world's boron reserves are in our country. In 1983, the Law No. 2840 was issued as part of the mines that would be run by the borland state. Today it's run by the Boron Meat Mine. In Turkey and around the world, scientific research, doing, co-ordinating, and co-ordinating the use of pipe products, producing and developing new boron products in various areas, providing the scientific environment needed for the research of users, using their borons and products or working with the public and private sector in this area, and with these actions, the Institute of Bor Research is doing these research with Law 4865. Public opinion's serious claim to the issue also increases hope and interest in the Institute. Various universities, public companies, private sectors and some individual companies also run separate projects on these projects, and 18 patents were patented. Government policy is essential for these to be converted into production. So the government needs to support and produce these 18 patented research. The diversification of Boron products, the emergence of new products, the transformation of them into production, the development of technology and the commercialisation of these works must be done and continued. RD studies on borscht derivatives should be assessed within the national policy sense. Today, on the budget board, the institution has a $13.9 million grant. 9.76 million liras have been earmarked from the central budget. The rest is being transmitted from their own resources, from their own resources. The government must be encouraged and supported in every way, however much is expected of the Institute, which operates under very modest budgets. The result of the scientific study, as of now used areas, is the most critical mine in the future. Currently, 54 per cent of the production is used in the glass industry, 12 per cent in agriculture, 13 per cent in ceramics and emaye sectors. Although the capacity to create added value is low, we must never stop and continue production here. I'd like to give you an example of two things in the future about the field of use. Research has shown a lack of boron in nearly half of the country's territory. The microfeeding boron minerals are also important because of their product quality and production efficiency. With these facts, ETIDOT-67, produced in its business in Mineral Bandırma, began to use debt fertilizer in agriculture. It has to be spread. Another area is the energy sector. The production, storage and transplant of hydrogen used as fuel in the battery, battery and space industry is very expensive, and very dangerous. Because when hydrogen is gas, it's very large, it's very explosive and it's liquefying at minus 252 degrees. But the fact that boron compounds have a high capacity for carrying hydrogen poses no danger in acquiring, storage and transport. It opens up new horizons in energy production, storage and transport. The work in this area must be accelerated, and RDs should be supported in order to meet the energy needs from local sources as a key reason for the current deficit, which is the pressure on the economy. We demand that the strategic plan targets of 2013-2017 be revised in this sense, without delay, in the national policy sense. As mentioned above, it is important for our underground resources to plan for the future of reserve detection. MTA does this in our country. In 1935, our government understood the importance of identifying and operating our underground resources and established the MTA. The detection of our country's geological structure, our underground resources, is just as important in the past today as it is in the past. The country's own wealth and power towards our resources will be the main source of power in the creation of its vision of the future. We support the work of the MTA (MTA) in order to make our underground resources visible by using new technological resources. We are interested in the work of the MTA Turquoise Research Boat (MTA) as a project launched to identify the underground and geological resources of our seas. We need to speed up the work of this ship, because we believe that foreign countries on all four sides are finding oil and natural gas, while we have the same rich resources in our seas. For him, the government must support this ship without hesitation, speed up these investigations by putting its experts, its people, its people, in charge. It's not a mission to plan a strategic plan. The goals set in that plan are essential. Therefore, the MTA (MTA) must be brought to more active, continuous working opportunities, considering developing technology, new needs, new resources. Our resources needed by the country's economy, which is troubled by capital savings, must be identified and uncovered. Our underground resources are supposed to be moral capital for today, and when they are produced, they need to join the economy as real capital. We appreciate the recent work by the MTA (MTA) on identifying geothermal energy sources. These studies need to be published. It is vital that geothermal resources are operated, removed, encouraged, and supported by many bureaucratic procedures ahead of them. As we look at the 2016 budget grant, we find that it is incompatible with the importance attributed to this institution. With the currencies of the budget, we are despairing of the structure of the grant pens, far from leading the institution to study the issues we are talking about upstairs. The fact that time is a factor in the economy requires immediate detection and production of our underground wealth. It is a necessity that our country, which is suffering from shortages of resources, our country's underground wealth, to be identified, to be removed, to be operated, and to be made a final product, create a high added value, to create capital, not to be neglected, not to be delayed. Dear lawmakers, I've tried to give you my party's views on these issues. Our brother-in-law is the Minister of Energy. So as someone who's worked for energy companies in the past, I hope that Turkey will cover its energy deficit... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think he'll do the work. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0015par0261	The order belongs to Adana MP Seyfetttin Yilmaz. Mr. Yilmaz, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 18 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0016par0265	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Department of Forestry and Water Affairs. I salute your high council. You know, the most important thing that threatens the world today is global warming and climate change. The rapid population growth, the rapid rise in unplanned industrialization, the release of carbon dioxide have a very important role in global warming and first-time change. The most important antidote to carbon dioxide emissions are forests. The Forest General Directorate, founded in 1839, has signed some of the most important projects in history, such as the protection, planning of the forests of Turkey, the struggle with forest fires, the struggle with erosion, and the sand-forestationing, in the middle of nowhere for a hundred and seventy-seven years. Counting a few of them, the Terakos wooding, the 550-600-odd-acres greenery that covers Ankara, the Adana Akyatan sandul wooding, Antalya Beek sandul wooding, Posanti-Lukşla Çakit tea erosion control, the treesing of the Thracian Grove mountains, the Endres basin, the eros control trees. Dear friends, these are the projects that cost forestry history, which are the pride of foresters, but now the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, whose budget we're talking about -- he's been serving for about nine years -- he thinks the history of forestry begins with him. Why does he think it started? Because he doesn't know much about forestry; we're dealing with a water-dwelling minister who can't get out of the water. Now, this isn't the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks, it's like Veysel Hodja's farm. Don't be offended by this, and don't be offended by Mr. Secretary, I'll explain why now. One: look, the Minister is on his way. We've got a lot of unemployed people in this country, we've got weak people, they're struggling with hunger, they've finished college, they're preparing for the KPSS exams. Thousands of forest engineers' mothers have raised their father's teeth, had their children read, and they are running from test to test to Ankara. When these kids can't get a job anywhere, the Minister has set up a farm that's so organized that he's hiring his brother's son from the special staff. Not enough, he married his daughter last time -- God bless him -- he puts his brother-in-law in press counsel; he appoints another cousin as a consultant. Not enough, he hires the congressman's kid from a private office, and then he dumps his kid on the Power Supreme Board because his salary is low.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0017par0270	He's working with people he trusts!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0018par0271	The minister's a good environmentalist!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0016par0272	He makes KPSS children of the bureaucrats appointed by the MP, puts a verbal in KPSS, dozers, greders take the operator, verbally, or verbally.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0018par0273	Minister of Environment!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0016par0274	Our poor worker gets 100 points in Adana, in Zagla, in Artvin, in Sinop. He comes to interview, he's a dozer, he's a ladle operator, there's a commission, there's a commission, he's out 40, he's out. Who's going in? The fellow bureaucrat's kids are coming in.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0019par0275	What does any of this have to do with your conversation? Please return to your speech according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0020par0276	Mr. President, he's not talking about the budget, he's...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0016par0277	Now, here's what I'm saying. Look, this isn't a farm, ma'am, this isn't a farm.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0021par0279	Intervent what?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0022par0280	Intervent what?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0016par0281	It's not enough, look, it's not enough, he's throwing out his chief of staff.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0023par0282	Mr. Yilmaz, please don't bother with the person who isn't here.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0024par0283	Sir, the Minister's actions.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0016par0284	My time, my time... Come in, Mr. Secretary. Look, I'm telling you what happened here. Chief of Staff, this is where I...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0025par0287	In accordance with the Civil Code, let us not use harsh and hurtful words.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0026par0288	Mr. Seyfettin, go ahead. Look at that, they're gonna close your eyes, they're not gonna make you talk!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0027par0290	I'm not talking. Now, Mr. President... Look, I'll tell you why I'm telling you this: his appointed nephew, Turker Eroglu, is throwing him out of the pen, okay? He's holding it, getting it transferred to Istanbul City Hall. Where's he moving to? He's putting him at the head of the landfills as branch manager. I said that for three years, didn't I? There's 900 trillion in there. Is that a disgrace to your reputation? Whose property is this? It's public property. This is the stand to defend the people's rights. You'll take your brother's son from the staff to Istanbul City Hall... where the forest is located, the mining site, the forest area. The forest's making a lot of noise around here. Istanbul lawmakers know, builders know, the waste is very expensive. He's leading Turker Eroglu. He buys it in the woods, gives it to the city. Who's the city giving it to? He's giving it to the third party, dear friends. Do you know how much Rant is? $300 million is a quadrillion. Veysel Eroglu gave it to whom. This is public property. That's what I'm saying. Now that I've said it, did we make a mistake, Mr. Ahmet President? What does that have to do with anything? Here's the D.A.'s decision. The Forest Engineers' Room sued, and ranta said stop, so -- what was done -- the D.A. approved what I said, and I'm not giving the pass to Ranta. You can't give it to the third party. But who, for four years, has become seven dear friends, and who has become rich? Yarpuzlu... Yarpuzlu... Who are they? Mr. Secretary will explain here, he has the right to answer. I blame the Minister. It's a court decision here.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0028par0293	Mr. Yilmaz, you know better than to mess with the person, please...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0029par0294	Minister's actions, why are you interfering?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0027par0295	Now, wouldn't that be a farm, dear friends? I've been saying here for three years, and I said, "You can love the chief of staff -- the chief of staff in the office, the chief of staff in the DSI, the chief of staff in the Ministry of the Forest" -- you can love him very much, you can bring him in, he'll be chief of staff, he'll take his salary there. Is it true? Right. The bureaucratic workers know that there is the President of Strategy Development, an additional indicator of 6400, which is the top of the bureaucracy, the top of the top. The chief of staff works as chief of staff for three and a half years, making his salary at 6400. How much is the chief of staff's salary, Mr. Secretary? 3,000 liras. What's the salary for strategy development? $6,500. What's the difference? $3,500. Times twelve months, times three and a half years, 150 billion. Not a day goes by, not a day goes by, he gets paid. Now, he's suing me, suing me for 10 billion in damages, and now he's the congressman. It says: "I am the AKP's candidate, you have disgraced me." The case is here. So I answered. Which means I didn't discredit him, which means he's now a congressman. Mr. Chief of Staff came to the office of a deputy, which means it's a matter of reputation, no dishonor. Now, dear friends, do they settle for that, too? He takes his advisor, puts the staff in charge of the office. That place has a high salary of 1 billion. Then, with a decree of law, he raises the salary of inspectors at the Inspection Board, where he dumps them. He's not the head of the agency one day. He's this consultant -- come out with his name, Mr. Secretary -- he's not an inspector any day. Now, what in God's name is it that I say when public property is being eaten here? What's wrong with what I say? Now, I'm going to say this, so who's going to pay for this landfill? I'm telling the Minister. I gave you the gene question about it, remember? There's a runt in the soil dump. You can't bring your brother's son to the head of a 1 quadrillion-year-old land dump. I said, I said, I meant it. Now, you've been cleared with the fingers of the AK PARTY, haven't you? But I'm telling you from here, there is no escape from the great justice. Justice is late, it's late, but it's always there. I'll send that Minister to the Supreme Court, period. Because it's public property. [[KHP, CHP and HDP applaud in rows]] Again, I said... he lives upstairs, 10 trillion in corruption downstairs. 10 trillion in corruption; I'm talking to documents, 10 trillion. Whose signature is on this? General managers with best colleagues. I said, "Well, as a realist here, the government's ten trillions were drunk, destroyed." Even if this general manager doesn't exist, he's negligent. You, Minister, don't know much about forestry, but there's a forest ranger Ibrahim Aydın, next to him, he knows very well.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0030par0302	You're talking dirty! Shame on you! Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0027par0303	When he cut down two trees...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0030par0304	You came out of the same institution!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0031par0305	Look, Mr. Yilmaz, you don't understand. Please don't use harsh and hurtful words, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0032par0306	What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0033par0307	Mr. President, do not interfere. He says he doesn't understand.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0031par0308	It's the same thing on every bench you've been on since this House opened.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0034par0309	Please, Mr. President, don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0031par0310	But please... you have to watch your mouth.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0034par0311	Please, Mr. President, don't interfere. Don't interfere, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0035par0312	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0031par0313	No, you have to be careful.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0036par0314	What did he say, Mr. President, what did he say?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0037par0315	I'm talking about the budget here.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0036par0316	He said he wouldn't understand.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0038par0317	What about you, Mr. Secretary? Look, this is no way to use threatening, slandering, aggressive statements like this. You know, you're the chief of staff, no dealing with the person.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0036par0318	What are you getting involved in? The Minister is there, the Minister will answer. If he doesn't understand, he doesn't understand. If he understands, he understands.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0039par0319	Mr. Seyfettin, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0040par0320	I'd like a minute or two of my time. Now, my dear friends, look... dear friends, Mr. Secretary, there are conservative officers in charge of a 21 million hectares of forest land, because two trees have been cut down, there are chiefs, there are managers. Why didn't you see the tree cut down in your field of responsibility, and why didn't you arrest the criminal? There are a lot of inspector reports. With the signature of your chief of staff downstairs, your undersecretary, you get 10 trillion dollars? Where's 10 trillion dollars, fellas? Yeah, I'm defending the rights of the state, the public.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0041par0322	Where?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0040par0323	Where's 10 trillion dollars? He's been gone for three years. Do you recognize the 10 trillions, Mr. Secretary? What did they do? They're suing, dear friends, they're suing. He sued me to his undersecretary, and Mr. Secretary came up here -- I'm telling you now who told me this -- he said: I've sued the deputy, he's got a pain in the tail, he's been punished. Mr. Secretary said that, there are reports. Mr. Secretary, let me show you the Supreme Court notice that I won that case, Mr. Secretary, and I won that case, and the Supreme Court's application is here: the nation is liable to defend the rights of the public, the $8,750 that was given against you... (Applause from the MHP desks) I paid with the Undersecretary, which they executed me.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0042par0325	They're collecting right away, and they need a lot of money.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0040par0326	He came to me on this stand, but as of today, I won the case, so as of today, I put it to work, and now I'm gonna get my money back. Now, dear friends, there's a system of information. Mr. Secretary, what is this? It's an I.T. issue. He's transferring 41.5 million grants. A firm's bidding, it's being given to a company. What's the name of the firm? Do you know how much it costs? 41.5 million, 35 trillion, plus 18 percent VAT: 42.5 trillion. Motamot. Who got this contract? Positional. He can, it's natural, isn't it? Motamot also happens, even though public tenders are down 50%, 60 percent, 40 percent. We're investigating the land company, the firm turns out to be opium.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0042par0328	For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0040par0329	It's a new construction company. I mean, it could be a coincidence, maybe because he's the Minister of Opium, and you can probably recognize him. One of the best friends who did one job before they took this job. Do you know what he did? He's done a job, he's got no other job, which is a job he did with the Water Management General. We're looking. Where does the Water Management Office belong? It's up to the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0042par0330	Coincidence! Manidar.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0040par0331	Now, this 41.5 trillion is given to a construction company with no experience, the construction company! He did one job, and he's with the Ministry. I mean, in his mind... Mr. Secretary, I expect you to answer that. So you gave him 21/b/b, direct supply, or what, so he could finish a job? Otherwise, he won't be able to get into it. Now that's not enough, 5 million dollars -- as the same business continues -- is paid for counseling. Whoever those advisors are, Mr. Secretary, I'd appreciate it if you'd explain. Now, dear friends, what happens when this is done? They also hold him, a very important politician named Topbaş, in Istanbul, where the minister called him, whose son is given 1 trillion jobs in the same business, and is given 1 trillion jobs. Now, the interesting thing is, it's the end of time, look, the start date is January 2014, December 2015, and there's nothing there. Does the system work, Mr. Secretary? It's not working. When did you extend? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain the deadline here. Unsatisfactory...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0043par0335	Talk to us, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0044par0336	Can you address the General Assembly?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0040par0337	Calm down, calm down, you'll get used to it!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0044par0338	Call the General Assembly!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0045par0339	What a shame!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0040par0340	Unsatisfactory, unsatisfactory...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0046par0341	He's asking questions. What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0047par0342	You can finally be embarrassed, before you know it...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0048par0343	I don't know what's right or wrong, but it suits his mouth, and he's fine!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0049par0344	Dear friends, my words disturb someone, I defend the public.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0050par0345	It doesn't bother me!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0051par0346	Go and ask the Minister, what is it, to answer for them. Ask him!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0049par0347	I'm just saying this because I want a minister who's a commoner, who won't respond to what I'm saying. Well, he knows I've talked about this before, but he's not answering any of them. He's going to say, "We've done this much wooding, we've done this much."
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0052par0348	He'll tell you what he's done.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0049par0349	Now, here's another thing, my dear friends: the Parkorman issue. Where's Parkorman? Do you have an Istanbul MP? The forest of Fatih is the liver of Istanbul, the liver of Istanbul. This is National Parks status, a company called Boresan rented it for $4.5 million a year. Mr. Secretary, they're offering this to a company called Egehan. Look, dear friends, how much is it? Seven hundred and forty thousand liras. Four and a half million... that's not important, that's small money, that's small money.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0053par0350	Wow! Little, little snacks!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0054par0351	Nuts!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0049par0352	Now, when this file comes in, the Istanbul Regional Manager, the four-member forestry technical delegation, the environmental technical committee, says that this is Istanbul's lung. This is where natural plants are. This is where the endemic plants are. If this is allowed here, the forests will be destroyed, the forests will be destroyed. He comes to the Minister's office, and he says in the Minister's immediate writing:... you will let him go immediately...and here are allowed dear friends. The Istanbul Regional Manager is being relieved of duty. So, do you know what's going on here now? What's being done, I'm telling you: twice the multipurpose hall, 525 square feet. Closed parking, five floors, bottom of the floor. The woods are falling apart. 108 bungalow-type villa friends with 200 square meters each. İstanbul MPs know the jungles of Fatih in İstanbul. That's where they're putting 108 villas. There are 2 restaurants, 15,000 congress halls, dear friends, 15,000 people.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0054par0353	Into the woods?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0049par0354	Yeah, in the woods.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0055par0355	You don't know, it's not Izmir, it's Istanbul, you don't understand! He's talking about Istanbul, not Izmir.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0056par0356	Not a single tree was cut down there.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0049par0357	Not a single tree was cut down. He says he did the same thing when he gave the Gazi compound. He did it there, exactly, in the House. He said, "Not one tree will be cut down." He said, "Here I showed him pictures of thousands and 15,000 trees that had been cut down."
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0056par0358	Not a single tree was cut down, so relax. You don't know!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0049par0359	Now, who is this Egehan company, Mr. Secretary, and why are you giving it to me? Tell me something about this, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0057par0360	Please address the General Assembly, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0058par0361	Tell the Minister, the Minister!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0059par0362	Why bother, Ahmet President?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0060par0363	Look, you're gonna jump a lot now. Isn't the willow where the Justice and Development Party is? Do you know where this is? This is the Justice and Development Party parking lot. Look, there's 3,600 square meters here for the use of the Justice and Development Party building as a green space and park, Mr. Secretary. Why does he give it to you? Do you have a civil engineer, an architect? Because a building needs a green space and a parking lot to get a license. The forest is surrounded by the Justice and Development Party. Is this the Justice and Development Party now? Not enough, dear friends. Do you know where this is? At the bottom of Çukurambar, at the back of the AK PARTI building, is the Willower National Park. Where Ataturk breeds and breeds the barren land, dear friends. I talked to him again here last year, and he said, "Where do you get off making a restaurant for a fisherman, a famous fisherman, a kebab shop?" Now, the famous fisherman, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the president of the Republic, who called him a fisherman, made him a fisherman and now works for the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. Your job is to fish, Mr. Secretary, or your duty is to kebab? I mean, can fishermen and kebabs be replaced by the relics of Ataturk? Is that even possible?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0061par0366	Is it your job to scream too?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0060par0367	Is that possible, dear friends?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0062par0368	That's not gonna happen, leave a mud trail with things that don't actually have linings.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0060par0369	Now, if one of them is a lie, let the Minister come and answer, for God's sake, I have all their documents.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0063par0370	Okay, bring it, why are you yelling?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0064par0371	You've got a lot of hate in you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0065par0372	Mr. President, give me another ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0063par0373	Time's up, come on, come on.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0066par0374	You don't run this place, the President runs this place.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0067par0375	Your time is up, Mr. Yilmaz. Please...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0068par0377	No, brother, he's running it, we're listening, you can't violate my rights.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0069par0378	Mr. President, you've interrupted me twice...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0067par0379	Mr. Yilmaz says it's the Civil Code that tells me when to cut it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0068par0380	Your time is up.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0069par0381	I'm here to...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0067par0382	I mean, you can criticize, you can criticize, but if you can't charge anyone, you can't charge anyone.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0069par0383	Mine's a review.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0067par0384	I mean, the Civil Code says it's not right to deal with a person like that.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0070par0385	What accusations? For God's sake, it's a budget control tool.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0071par0386	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0067par0387	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0072par0388	You're dealing with the person, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0073par0389	Where did he spend the money? He has the right to ask...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0074par0390	Look...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0075par0391	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0076par0392	Mr. Yilmaz, your time is up. Come in, please...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0077par0394	He's out of time, Mr. President, he's invading right now.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0078par0395	Okay, that's enough.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0079par0396	It's a budget talk, a full budget, ideal budget interview. That's how we talk about budgets, guys.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0080par0397	Time's up, time's up.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0081par0398	Mr. Seyfettin, time's up.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0082par0399	You guys don't run it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0083par0400	We don't have to listen, you're out of time.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0081par0401	What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0084par0402	Mr. Yilmaz, you're the chief of staff, should I call the chief of staff? You're in charge of yourself, please...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0081par0404	What a shame!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0084par0405	Please... Your time is up, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0085par0407	Sir, you interrupted me.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0086par0408	You've been insulting me ever since you left.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0085par0409	I want my time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0087par0410	Okay, why don't you sit down, where do you want it?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0085par0411	Sir, you've cut me off.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0087par0412	For God's sake, I didn't interrupt.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0088par0413	Time's up, budget talks, bro.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0085par0414	You interfered twice, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0087par0415	I call upon you to speak according to the Law, and I command you to speak according to the Law.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0089par0416	I'm inviting you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0087par0417	Please... Come in, Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0089par0419	I invite you to observe the Civil Law. Don't tease the preachers. Don't take positions with the Minister, you're the deputy of the People's Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0087par0420	Mr. Vural, I know very well how to apply this Civil Charter, and I invite everyone to comply with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0089par0421	Are you the Minister's deputy?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0087par0422	I invite you to take the position in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0089par0423	Are you the Minister's deputy?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0087par0424	Please...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0089par0425	Don't pick on the one on the stand.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0087par0426	Mr. Vural, I beg you...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0089par0427	So you're going to put him on this stand because he's picking on the Deputy Speaker...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0087par0428	Mr. Yilmaz, please...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0090par0429	Will you give me my time, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0087par0430	Mr. Yilmaz, please, I beg you, come in...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0090par0431	That is not just.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0087par0432	I've never extended anyone's time, nor have I extended yours.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0090par0433	You don't rule fairly.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0087par0435	For God's sake, I rule with justice, and I know exactly how to rule, and I'm not going to learn from you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0090par0436	You have no idea.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0087par0437	I'm not gonna learn from you. I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary, is this from your position?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0091par0439	No, from the stand.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0087par0440	Here you go. I'll give you two minutes for bullying. Please end it before you can challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0092par0445	Mr. President, the most valuable MPs, especially if I may say so, our friend was the regional manager, then he was relieved of duty. He's carrying out his rebellion. [[Noises in MHP rows]] For once, I'll tell you this...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0093par0448	He's a congressman now.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0094par0449	Now, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0092par0450	Thank God, we do everything in the Ministry by law and by law. For one thing, I've had a lot of...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0095par0452	Why did you relieve him? Was he corrupt?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0096par0453	What did he do?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0097par0454	Congressmans, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0098par0455	He talks about my brother over and over again, and I don't have a brother. Only one of my relatives was an environmental engineer for 12 years, and when I was Minister of Environment and Forestry, I said, "Come help me." I said, "A very good environmental engineer." Then, when the Ministry of Environment and Forestry became the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, the environment went to another institution. Because I can't be useful here, he's gone to the waste disposal unit, which is all that's out there, because he's been working there before. That's what's done, one.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0099par0456	That's what the Hafriyat means. Second, he mentioned Parkorman. So far, not a single tree has been cut down in Parkorman, but nothing has been done.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0100par0458	There's no more trees, trees!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0101par0459	There's going to be a playground. There's not a single tree that's been cut down.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0100par0460	I've seen it, I've seen it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0101par0461	The third thing is, we have a guy, unfortunately, embezzled. That was determined by my Director General and my Undersecretary. Right now, that guy's in jail. That's what he said.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0102par0462	Where's the money, the money?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0101par0463	We did what we had to, he's in jail. What could we do?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0102par0464	Where's the money, the money?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0101par0465	In the end, there was a lawsuit. And I'll tell you what's going on with the weekend: in the past period, all the heads of the group said: "Don't get this tender, there's a need for construction sites in İzmir, Istanbul and Mersin. Let's give it to the municipalities. There's a law here with the vote, given to the municipality.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0103par0467	Who said that? We didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0101par0468	In fact, we're getting a lot more from city municipalities than we've been paid in the past. We've just assigned an area to the mayor of Izmir Metropolitan, that's all. I'd like to stress that in particular. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0104par0471	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0105par0472	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0106par0473	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0104par0474	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0105par0475	He says he's speaking out of pain because I took him from the forest district office. Because of the bullying, there's a...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0104par0476	Here you go. Without a new pick-me-up... Mr. Jahan, I'll listen to you too.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0107par0479	If he had responded to both of them together, he would have answered, Mr. President. You're not following the Civil Code, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0104par0481	Let's not afford another tease. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0108par0484	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are giving false information even here. The director of the forest is in the back, check his records. I was the Director of the Adana Forest District, that's right, I made a very successful Forest District Directorate. I've been elected the most successful regional manager every year, I've got commendations, I've got governors, I've got general managers, I've got ministers.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0109par0485	Is that why you were relieved of duty?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0110par0486	They give it to everyone.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0108par0487	I'm not offended. You'll understand if you listen. Mr. Secretary is on duty, dear friends. I found out that Mr. Minister's sense of duty, outside of forestry, had seen the desire to work with fully political, political, advocating bureaucrats, and I've petitioned myself to not work with you. I have a petition, Mr. Secretary. Look there, look there; you didn't take it, I petitioned it, I did. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Now, where have you brought your nephew, your nephew? There are thousands of unemployed people in this country as much as your nephew, watching us, thousands of unemployed. I'll send you a man, and they'll be very successful, they'll be able to speak three foreign languages, they'll speak 13 foreign languages, they'll know the computer, they'll know the world well, I'll send them away, do them a favor and take them with you. He's taking it, he's telling me where I'm bringing it to the Department of Dirt Documentation, and then he's bringing it to his precious friends, the Istanbul Forest Regional Directorate, he's pouring it out, he's winning trillions. Mr. Secretary, when it comes to duty... Before that, there was the AKP minister, Osman Pepe, where was the money going? He was going into the woods, into the woods safe. But Mr. Secretary came and did what? He gave it to the city, he put his nephew in charge, three or four people who were given to subcontractors... come on, explain to me how much money they made, who took it, why don't you explain? Mr. Secretary, explain them for God's sake, convince the AK PARTY MPs, we don't need to convince them anyway. Convince me, where did this money go? Let's find out, dear friends. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0111par0494	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0112par0495	Dear Pekstone...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0111par0496	Sir, the orator has been picking on me.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0112par0497	Here, I'll give you two minutes so we don't have to put up with any more bullying.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0111par0500	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The speaker who just spoke on the stand mentioned my name a few times when I wasn't here before, when I was a bureaucrat. While he was the director of the Adana Forest District, there were some reports of him being deposed at the time...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0113par0502	Like what?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0114par0503	Say it, say it!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0111par0504	His dismissal came up.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0114par0505	Not like that! Tell me what it is!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0115par0506	Don't throw mud, say it!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0116par0507	Congressmans, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0117par0508	Read the transcripts...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0118par0509	That's not gonna happen, he got that disciplinary action. You're gonna have to say it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0116par0510	Mr. Pektaş, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0118par0511	There's a call. He says, look at this!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0119par0512	Say it, say it!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0116par0513	You speak, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0120par0514	His dismissal came on the agenda, but when some of the birds in the ministry said he was going to be relieved of duty, the friend, unfortunately, ran off to Adana City.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0121par0515	Mayor, warn me, how...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0122par0516	Explain, say it!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0120par0517	Look, we're open to criticism, but I look at criticism before criticism.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0123par0518	Warn him how he talks, step in.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0124par0519	Congressmans, I beg you. I beg you...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0120par0520	I look at the nature of criticism, the quality of criticism, the message of criticism.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0125par0521	Tell me, is it true about you or not?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0124par0522	Wait a second...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0120par0523	The nature of the criticism shows the diameter of the critic. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0126par0525	What were the allegations, the allegations? Name your bets!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0127par0526	Throw mud, then sit down, and I'll look in front of you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0128par0527	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. Two minutes... Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0129par0531	Mr. Seyfettin, calm down! Easy, easy!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0130par0533	Easy, easy... Now, you understand who the friend is, don't you? Chief of Staff. Now, did you get three and a half years' salary from the head of the Strategic Development Agency, and shouldn't he come out here and explain it, precious lawmakers? What's my bet? That's it, isn't it? Did he explain it?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0131par0536	Explain! Explain!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0130par0537	Secondly, look, I have something to say.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0131par0538	Explain yourself!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0130par0539	Wait a minute, guys... Let him explain it, let him explain it. Secondly, I petitioned, I didn't run, I became Assistant Director. This Minister sent me 12 inspectors for 18 months, 12 of them. He sent 12 inspectors. Is that correct, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0132par0542	What happened?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0130par0543	One inspector goes, one comes, one goes, one comes. What's the deal?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0133par0544	Nothing!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0130par0545	There's nothing there. The one with an open forehead has no fear. I served six and a half years as district manager under the inspectors' command, under the review board, and get everything out of there! I ain't never had nothing to eat, so I'll have a job that can't be answered for! But now that you're out of here and you haven't responded to any of these allegations... You're the chief of staff, the minister's there... 12 inspectors for 18 months.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0134par0546	There's no credibility in what you're saying. I can see why you're talking about this! Don't push yourself!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0130par0547	Found it, found it, registered! Who sent those inspectors? It's from the Minister. Find something about it. They said, the inspector told me. What happened, did you find anything? You won't find anything. You're in charge. If God grants me the authority, we shall see with these signs how the path of the High Court will appear. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit01spe0135par0550	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0135par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the sixth round of the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Act. 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 I) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014 The commission and the government are in place. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the last speaker is Adana MP Muharrem Varlı. Dear Varli, come in. Your time is 12 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0136par0050	Mr. President, I have been promised to express my opinion on our group's budgets for the State Water Affairs General Directorate, the meteorological General Directorate and the Turkish Water Institute. On this occasion, I salute you all. Of course, there's not much I can say about two institutions, but what I'd like to say about the State Water Affairs General Directorate is that I'd like to share with you my thoughts about the issues that I've said here before that none of them have ever been mentioned and have never been implemented, and I'd like to share them with our dear citizens who are watching us at the beginning of the screens. Dear lawmakers, there is a Seven Eye Dam in our Adana, which deals with 750,000 acres of land, and is actually very important to a very beautiful land. Mr. Secretary is one of the oldest members of the Council of Ministers. I'm more or less a friend of yours who's a member of parliament here. I bring up this dam every semester. Each time, Mr. Secretary, we will do it, we will finish it. With his words, he has distracted us, and he has occupied our people who live there and work as farmers.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0137par0053	Which dam?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0136par0054	So far, only 10 percent of the Seven-Eyes Dam... I'm telling you the part about irrigation, not the energy part. Since it's a little more of an interest to you, you've already completed the energy-related part. Because there's money flowing through there. I don't know where that money's going. You got there a little early, but the watering part... was completed to water 20,000 acres of land between Mosullu and Imamoglu alone. Yet, on 730,000 acres of land so far, no facility has been built and no water has been spilled. Now, I've brought it up every time since 2007, and every time, it's going to be over in a year or two. You said -- all of these are in the transcripts, and I can bring them to you -- but so far, Seven-Eyes Dam, unfortunately, is being thrown out. I'm asking the authorities, what's going on? I'm saying, if the tenders don't go wrong, if we can make these tenders, we're thinking of finishing them in 2020, they're thinking of finishing them. I mean, where's 2002, where's 2020? It's been 18 years. But your politicians and you, every time you go to that area, a year later your water comes in. In a year's time, we will save you from thirst. You said, "You have deceived and deceived those people." Now, people don't believe in you anymore; they're drilling 250 meters deep, trying to water their own fields, trying to water them by burning diesels. However, if this dam is finished, if those religious lands are watered, the economy of those farming in the region will strengthen and contribute greatly to Turkey's economy. But because you didn't care about the farmer, because you didn't care about the people who planted the fields, you finished the energy part because you were more interested in energy, no matter what happened after that. Thousands of people are eating bread from that land, thousands of people trying to support their children from that land. You don't care, of course, I told you every time, I told you every time, but this came in your ear, it came out of your ear. You know that saying, "I'm going to have you drumming here next time, Mr. Secretary, so that you can understand." (Applause from MHP rows) Otherwise you don't understand or you don't want to understand. Now, we've made laws here about irrigation troops, and we've given that law, and we've supported the law on irrigation, but so far, unfortunately, you haven't used it in your favor. Look, Mr. Secretary, the main even the city's wastewaters are falling, watering the plains of Ceyhan, starting from Osmaniye Cevdetiye to ovary. I've said that a dozen times. The DSI has a project on it. The DSI says: "Let watering troops do it. " The irrigation troops are in no condition to manage themselves so that the irrigation troops can do it. Why don't you get the DSI to do it, why don't you? There are several water cuts every year. Why? Because the canals hold moss, it needs medicine to clean the moss, and the water stops when the irrigation troops are throwing drugs. Just when the farmer needs to water his corn, his cotton, suddenly there's a water shortage, and the farmer is a victim. That's why the farmer lost at least 250 or 300 kilos of corn last year. That's why the farmer lost at least 100 kilos of cotton last year. Mr. Secretary, listen to this, please take this seriously and do the projects on these as soon as possible. I'm the kind of person who would say all this, knowing it, knowing it, and saying it, and I'm not the kind of person who talks. Look, again, you've privatized this energy business of irrigation troops. The Minister of Energy was just here, and now he's gone, and I don't know where he went. Now, they want monthly collections from the irrigation companies. The irrigation troops don't have the power to collect monthly. Why? Because the irrigation troops are collecting money from the farmer year after year. So, there's a chance to pay year after year by year by watering troops, but energy now expects monthly collection from the irrigation troops, so there's a draft cut, energy cuts in many places, and other farmers, peasants, are victims. Now, if you'll please take notes on this and make an adjustment and comfort our farmers and watering troops in this matter, we'd appreciate it. I'm not speaking to defend the rights of the irrigation troops, I'm saying this because the farmers are being victimized by the irrigation troops, the villagers are being victimized. Mr. Secretary, again, can this electricity... contribute to the watering forces as agricultural irrigation? If this contributes, the irrigation troops will be able to water the farmer in a cheaper way, so our farmer will have won. So do you have a project to convert energy into agricultural electricity, do you want to do it? I'd appreciate it if you'd take a note. Again, the other day, I talked about agricultural loans, and you bragged that they belong to me. Is that right, Minister? You said the loans were mine. I don't think I got it wrong, do I?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0138par0061	Farm loans?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0136par0062	Yes, while I was talking from here, you bragged there and said the loans were mine. Now, agriculture loans are supposed to subsidize fertilizer prices in this country, while fertilizer prices are supposed to be in the farmer's favor, but I'm unfortunately talking to the old numbers to make our people understand the free market's price of fertilizer more comfortable. But if agriculture is on the market... and they also say: "We bring fertilizer from our own factories." Well, if you're bringing fertilizer from your own factories, why don't you give the farmer cheaper fertilizer? Why don't you want to subsidize fertilizer prices under the free market? As I said earlier, none of this matters to you because you don't have a project to protect the farmer and you don't have an opinion. Again, these stone furnaces... you see, just above the village settlement, the quarry was allowed, and 20 years ago, trees were planted there, forested, trees were so beautiful, trees were formed, you gave it to the quarry. Why are you doing this, Mr. Secretary? I mean, don't you ever get tired of destroying all those beautiful settlements and beautiful forests because there's gonna be a penny to be made here? I mean, my dear friends, look, these are all things that, unfortunately, we live on a daily basis, and they give us a hard time every day. The people who live in that village want to leave their village. That woodland, the forest, was completely destroyed by the quarry, by its destruction. Now, from one side, let's build a forest. We say, "Let's grow trees." We say, "Let's grow trees." Again, there was a law that we all passed here in 2008, about the past-looking BUG-KUR. If there's a certain amount of money that one person has invested, we've granted you the right to retire on the condition that you complete the rest. It's good, it's true, it's an app. Now, I'm talking about the Adana area, Mr. Secretary of the Adana region only. Maybe it's not your concern, but you're one of the oldest members of the government, and you're more or less involved with farmers and agriculture. Now, people have gone from 1997 to 2008, they've invested in advance. Look, there's a document here, and I'll give it to you in a minute. I mean, how long has it been? He's pretty much paid his ten-year bonus in advance, farmer. He's registered with Agriculture and made all his monthly payments, received medical services, operated on, operated on himself, went to the hospital, took advantage of BUG-KUR, but his age is up, his day is up, he can't retire now. Why? Sir, every year you have to renew your records in the agricultural chamber. Has such a warning been given? No such warning was issued. Now, isn't that unfair, Mr. Secretary? Eighteen years, 20 years, and you got ten years in advance. Here, here, from the village of Aykapınar Halil Value, one of 10,000, 20,000 people. Now, isn't that a lack of rights, isn't that unfair? Why stop these people from retiring, why don't you retire these people? They're all in court right now, and they've all sued you, your government, for the rights to that law, and for the rights they've earned. Hopefully they'll win soon, but you haven't been able to stand by every law you've passed here, and after every law you've passed here, you've passed new laws about renewing it, about changing it. The law 2/B is the same. And there are a lot of flaws in the 2/B law, and we've said it every time, and unfortunately you haven't considered any of them. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0139par0067	Thank you, Mr Varli. The People's Democratic Party Group is now in place. The first word for the group belongs to Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen. Mr. Bilgen, come in. [[Applause from HDP rows]] All speakers speaking on behalf of you and the People's Democratic Party Group from now on are limited to 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0140par0073	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I told a joke late last night. There's been an argument here before, and there's the President, and a congressman just felt the need to make a statement. We're also human rights advocates, not only are we officially in the Human Rights Commission. Therefore, patient rights are part of human rights. Being sick is a need to be human. Your physique may be disturbed, but your mental health may also be troubled. I mean, it'll be condemned, it'll be condemned, it's nothing to be ashamed of. But human history, Islamic history... In this geography, there have sometimes been difficulties with the mental health of the rulers of the previous states. Therefore, we should never take this as a personal matter or any approach that would cause a pollen.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0141par0075	My friend, come on, you don't have to, you don't have to. Okay, if you want to be an ad in the papers, let's just say they'll make headlines, you'll be a headline in other subjects, let's just drop it, let's just drop it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0140par0076	On the contrary, the fate of a people, the fate of a country, cannot be abandoned to the position of a person. So instead of reminiscing about their approach to this matter...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0142par0077	Talk about the budget.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0141par0078	Leave it, leave it. Shame on you! You're talking about the head of state who runs Turkey.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0140par0079	...to put the future of the country above everything else...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0143par0080	Mr. President, will you step in?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0144par0081	Mr. Kurt, Congressmans, please do not interfere.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0145par0082	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0146par0083	...personal ambitions, personal accounts.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0147par0084	Talk about the budget, about the budget.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0146par0085	So instead of reacting, if there's anything to be done to prevent the country from getting hurt by this extremely human situation, it's important to focus on it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0148par0086	Yeah, well, if you want to be a headline, they have different ways.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0146par0087	I mean, I don't want to take too long with this polemic, I just don't want to...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0149par0088	What are you going to extend? You're saying what you're going to say.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0150par0089	There's one thing to do, not to support terrorists. There's something to do, there's so much to do.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0151par0090	Talk about the budget, about the budget. You've wasted two minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0152par0091	Now, I'll get to that in a little while, but if you'll just be patient and listen, you'll understand.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0153par0092	We're here, we're listening in the morning, we're talking nonsense...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0154par0093	Oh, shut up, will you?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0153par0094	What do you mean, shut up! What do you mean, shut up!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0154par0095	Mayor, there's no such thing!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0155par0096	Turn around, in front of you!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0156par0097	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0157par0098	The budget talks are part of Parliament's responsibility in parliament...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0158par0099	Everyone will know their place!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0159par0100	And you know your place!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0160par0101	Mr. Bilgen, please address the General Assembly. However, if we could please weigh where your words are going...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0102	No, I've mentioned one of the most fundamental things about human rights, and there's nothing to be offended about, there's nothing to be offended about.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0162par0103	Talk about the budget.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0104	Magna Carta, as you know, is the first of the parliaments, which counts as the first of the modern parliaments, and what actually begins with Magna Carta, is that one of the decisions that the kings take alone, that whoever has the power of the people in that country, the amount that they can participate in their decision process, the amount of money that they can be taxed, the amount that money is spent, and the second part about finances, and when the enemy is declared, how many soldiers will be fought, how many soldiers will be sent, so one of them is concerned with security, in fact, the real responsibility of the parliament, the real reason is the real reason of the budget. When these two tasks are being done, when these two decisions are being made, when these two jobs are being carried out, is it better if one person takes the initiative? Does the king know how much money will be collected and where it will be spent, or does the people know, too, the chosen among the people? Second: Can the people decide whether it is safe, peace, peace, or whether it is within the king's authority to determine the issue of enemy detection, domestic threat, foreign threat, or enemy or whatever, or whether the people know who will be described as their enemy, who will be used to use the money for the weapon? Every joke, every reason, value, legitimacy of parliament is based on it. In fact, when you read the history of these lands a little bit, you'll see that even during the Law period, which was considered the Ottoman Empire's peak, even during Sultan Süleyman's period, the period when riots started in Anatolia, when the palace was in distress, because of the heavy tax releases, due to the unfair collection of money, the state's budget for wars, when the hard-lived Anatolian manufacturer was in distress. Here's the riot that we read in the textbooks of Zünın the Father's Uprising is the rebellion of the Bozok Turkmens against heavy taxes released, and that's just a reaction to the use of money for war. Again, there are other riots. Kalenderoğlu's Uprising is one of the major riots supported by Dulkadir Türkmen. Again, it's from the same reaction, the same discomfort. Of course, as those who opposed, opposed, opposed, opposed, reacted to the separation of the war effort and the sweat of their foreheads, as they were described today as "shakiki" (for example), whoever opposed what they were against, whatever they were against, or what they were against, it became a habit of the authorities to step out. With that concept, please, at least the MPs in Parliament should be a little more careful. They don't look at history, they don't care how these concepts are used in history, at least let them look at the world. At the moment, a decision has been issued in the United States on the lower commission to consider Ihvan Muslimin a terrorist organization. Maybe he'll be in the House of Representatives, maybe in the Senate. In China, Eastern Turks are already considered terrorists after Uygur Muslims, as the Turks in Bulgaria have been considered in the past. So, in Iran, in Saudi Arabia, in Yemen, in Russia, in Caucasus, in the Balkans, whoever opposed the dominant power, if he opposed it, it became a habit to label and describe it as a terrorist. Yes, there's such a thing as terror, there's such a thing as blind violence, but if you have to put it all on the same page and use it without principle, without principle, without pleasure, when you encounter terrorism, then you don't have words, sentences to describe it. There are serious objections to these wrongs at the time of the Law, to this form of governance, there are serious reactions, but I'll pass on a very small anecdote because it's a very serious light today. One of the viziers of that time, Sadrazam Ibrahim Pasha, speaking to the German ambassador -- very interesting, in fact, because it contains a very clear message to today's political debates -- says to the German ambassador: "He's very loyal to the law, he's very strict with the law, he's very strict with the rules; he's saying that if he doesn't, he doesn't really know his pride, he doesn't interfere with my powers." But when the German envoy tells his own country, he says: "Ya, however the Veziriazam İbrahim Pasha says he doesn't interfere with his own powers, if he doesn't, if he doesn't have his own powers, he doesn't really know his pride, he doesn't listen to the law or the law, he doesn't listen to me. I'm going to put aside the warnings of all these times, the pause, the collapse, but, for example, the valuable MPs here have read it all, Coachi Bey Risales are all about the state going to the altar, the luxury, the waste of it, and not being seen from the palace, the influx of its influence in society. In other words, there's a lot of things written in the government steps about it. For example, there were discussions about the waste, the sheikulism of the period, the conquest of the sheikulism, the debate about bribery, the fetish. For example, what takes bribes and what doesn't? You know, because of the position and the office -- they call it "commissioning" -- is it necessary to get this money taken? They said, "If you didn't sit in that office and they wouldn't give it to you, then it's illegal and it's bribe. So it doesn't change even if you give it to the proper fetishists by giving you the right corners. If you have received that commission because of that authority, they call it duty, that's what they say in Ottoman times, even during the legal period, the sheikhs have shown courage, and they can say so. There are interesting warnings at that time, such as the warning of Bookeddar Yellow Mehmet Pasha, and I read the same sentence: If there is a penchant for the progress of the country, the administrators should not go through the way of collecting wealth and having new treasures; rather, they should try to eliminate injustices, fix disorder and persecution. You know, Hazreti Ali has very good words about this, the exact statement he wrote to the governor of Egypt. Another statement was in his letter to the governor of Egypt: "Don't repent to anyone by personal intimacy and influence. " We're not talking about today, there's no need for anyone to be sensitive, there's no need to react, just to make an example, just to learn a lesson. The Minister of Customs and Trade is in fact partly right about the security, peace and trade relationship, he says: "If there is no peace, there is no trust, there is no success in trade." He also gives a very serious warning, saying: "There are those who want to drag us into Syria, we will never fall into this game. There is a clear, predictable sentence to be applauded. But, unfortunately, Mr. Secretary also adapted to the famous habit and said: "We will fight terrorism until the last terrorist remains. I think he meant until the last terrorist dies, until he's killed." Or what do we do with the last terrorist? I don't think the government's gonna be too busy with one terrorist or anything. So here we need to establish the security and trade relationship, the peace and actually the economic development relationship. Again, Mr. Minister of Russia has a nice line about the crash of his plane, he says: "We didn't want any problems, we didn't want any problems, and we never did anything wrong with climbing, so we're not on the side of climbing. We have to ask Mr. Minister: What could Turkey have done to increase tension? So you dropped a plane, and we didn't do anything else about it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0163par0109	We dropped the plane on our own, dropped the plane on our own!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0110	But it's obvious, politics is the insight in politics, the vision is...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0163par0111	We opened the doors only to 200,000 Kurds who had fled from Syria, to 200,000 Kurds who had fled from the PSYD. That's not a defense here. Shouldn't we have opened the doors to 3 million Syrians?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0112	You think about what the next step is going to cost me: what does it get me, what does it take, when I'm a eunuch, when I'm big words, when I'm big words, if the tourist pays for it, if the merchant pays for it, if you think about it, if the merchant pays for it...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0163par0113	Let the CHP talk about it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0114	...if you can afford it, if you can afford it, if you can afford it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0164par0115	Mr. President, will this friend shut up?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0165par0116	Mr. Wolf, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0117	But you don't have to be a gentleman and dare and challenge and then lobby the Russian bureaucrats after them. How do we make contact, and how do we get our apology accepted? You don't stand up. If you lower the country's reputation for honor, you stand behind it, but if the hotel people are in a riot, and your newspapers are making headlines like this: "Lemon is a strategic product, the Russians are never going to stand up to us because lemon prices increase and the Russians kneel down. Now, if you rely on lemons, you have nothing to do, sorry, you'll have to bear it, too. But -- let's skip the big hotel owners, tourism agencies, and so on -- the small tradesman is paying the price. Even the small tradesman pays, and the small tradesman will have a lot to endure, and it's a pity they don't have the resources to resist. Look, every year in Turkey, there's an ahi ceremony, and it's very important. It's one of the most valuable traditions in geography: the ahi tradition, the control mechanism, the merchant, the merchant man of commerce. You see, it's a serious tradition to sell broken goods, unfair competition, to avoid all that. In fact, the famous expression in our language is "Ahi." So, if a trade dealer lies, sells cheating goods, if he forbids what he earns, they throw his shoes to the roof; he's not being shoplifted by a thief or a shoplifter who looks bad on the roof. Now, I think, if we looked at commercial life, commercial morality, I don't think he'd be rich with shoes on; all the roofs, all the roofs of those big malls would probably go back to the shoe graveyard. There are other serious things in the tradition. When countries are in chaos, when the state of Anatolia is in a reign, when they face war, there's not only been a tradesman's organization, but, yes, you'll be very angry now that it's become a self-government model, and even after a step, there's also been self-defense, Mr. Congressman, self-defense.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0166par0119	Against terrorists, against rebels!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0120	When the palace fell into a fight over the throne, the people of Anatolia took care of themselves, protected themselves, protected their values, protected their livelihood, protected their principles, protected everything and defended themselves.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0166par0121	Against terrorists!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0122	Now, I mean, I don't know what you know about the history of secularism, but if you'd read the history of the Constitution a little bit, you wouldn't be using these concepts so easily.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0166par0123	Is the concept of absorption a pit?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0124	Let me remind you that in this land, the merchants have signed something very serious. For example, in the 40 per cent, the late Ecevit's party fell down with a cash register, you remember, and then it landed at 2 per cent. Therefore, it is necessary to avoid approaches that will cause so much harm to the small trade, that will cause so much trouble, that will threaten both security and peace, and at the same time burden the trade.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0167par0125	That's what you'll think when you break the shop windows, when you close your shutters, when you stop your trade!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0168par0126	The tradesman's safety is the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0127	You know very well what big malls do to a small business, and so do I. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] And let me tell you a little bit about smuggling, because it's about the Ministry's budget. Now, if smuggling was just a financial issue, let's say it was covered up, but the issue of smuggling -- especially the issue of fuel smuggling in Turkey -- is not just a financial issue, but a serious crisis in foreign policy. Why is there a crisis in foreign policy? Before the Russians hit them with their planes, they bomb trucks and say: "Ya, these trucks buy this illegal fuel from places run by ISIS and similar organisations and are brought to Turkey and sold in Turkey." These are very serious allegations. There are articles about this in international magazines, security magazines, defence magazines. State doesn't defend itself, State Department doesn't say: "No, it has nothing to do with us." It's just public opinion, it's called something, but there's not even a defense out there.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0169par0131	These were good when they came under PKK's control and sold in Turkey, weren't they? He was providing logistical support when he arrived under PKK control.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0132	Look, I'll give you another example of this smuggling business: an ex-politician, Sevket Bulent Jahnici, look, now listen, who's controlling it. In an interview he gave years ago, he said that in the 90s, in the 90s -- just like today -- before the white Toros left -- the White Prime Minister's white Toros -- there is no drug smuggling or fuel smuggling in this country, there is no white Toros escorting in advance, and that's how it's done.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0169par0133	Opens a corridor in the mountains...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0134	Message received, right? I don't suppose the white Toros were escorting the organization, were they? The white Toros are dealing with other people, especially fuel smuggling.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0170par0135	You took care of it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0136	Look at the chips, who's on the boards of those firms, and then you can answer me, okay? When you look at the boards of directors of those companies, you'll see very clearly which of your former political friends or those who retired from the security departments.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0171par0137	If you have a reason, don't talk nonsense.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0138	Your choice of empty or loaded appreciates it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0172par0140	He did, on November 1st. We're here because the voter appreciates it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0141	Your representatives come up here, they give a lot of speeches, everyone's so convinced, they're so happy, they're so happy to listen!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0173par0142	Let's not interfere, lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0143	For two months on our border with Iraq, people lived in trucks. We don't have a problem with Iraq, as far as I know. But, yes, we have little problems, what is it? There was a time when a congressman expressed it, turned to some parties, and said: "You Baasciers are now known in Turkey as far as I know, a Syrian Baa, and an Iraqi Baa." Syrian Baa is okay, Assad, you've already been on vacation, now you've declared war. But there's only one person left behind by Iraqi Baa, who? Tarek Hashimi.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0174par0144	He's here, too. These are Baasci, these are.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0145	It was not enough that Tariq Hashimi had hidden him in Turkey -- who was publicly declared a terrorist by the Iraqi Central Administration and was wanted -- but you were the one who showed up at his convention and applauded.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0175par0146	Wasn't he the vice president then?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0147	Now, are you the party here that's giving Baas a seat at his convention? I'm telling you why our relations with Iraq are broken.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0176par0148	It's a mindset, a mindset. You don't even know it's mental.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0177par0149	You have the same mentality, that's what it says, the same mentality, not the person.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0161par0150	It shows why our relations with Iraq were broken, why the trucks remained on the border for two months. But you've been in power for thirteen years, fourteen years, fifteen years, sixteen years. Look, I'll tell you one little thing about trade, customs: we have an off-the-book gold trade with Iran, don't we? We know that. They've been caught, like, 17-25, a lot of complicated jobs, but Iran and Turkey can't even arrange holidays and develop trade. Thursday-Friday afternoon, Iran takes a vacation, Saturday- Sunday we're on vacation, the people who trade with Iran are trading in three days, and you can't even solve it in 16 years. As I finish, I'd like to read another word from Lord Ali because there was a serious discussion here last night between the Minister of the Interior and the CHP MPs. Hazreti Ali says if you have a contract with the enemy, or if you have a pledge with him, fulfill it, and if he calls for protection, pay him with your life. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0178par0154	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0179par0155	Mr. Pine, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0178par0156	In part of his speech, Mr. Bilgen made an irony about the cash register to former Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit. We understood that irony, but for the record, the tradesman was at a very difficult time in those days, and the citizen used his democratic right to come to the Prime Minister and throw the cash register and protest, but today, there is no way to even get in front of the Prime Minister, let alone get in front of him.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0180par0157	No way...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0181par0158	There's no way in hell they're from the guards.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0178par0159	People are unable to express their reactions and sensitivity. The Prime Minister and the prime minister of today's era should not be compared to the prime ministers of the past; I consider that a note in history, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0182par0160	That's why the election results are always like this.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0183par0161	Mr. Pine, people decided that day, and people decided today. People's decisions are above our heads. We're not going to criticize people's decisions, we're going to respect them, we're all going to respect them.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0184par0163	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0185par0164	President, there's a congressman's report, and you're commenting!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0184par0165	Of course, people will decide, but we also have to do this comparison: the cash register was being thrown that day, and now it's impossible to get within five kilometers of it, and so is the tradesman. But we also know that the shopkeeper burned himself and committed suicide. We'll have to make that comparison in the meantime. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0186par0167	Yes, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0187par0168	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0186par0169	Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0187par0170	Mr. President, it's not just part of the character's speech, but it's an irony from beginning to end, and there's a serious bullying of our group, our policies. I demand word from you according to 69.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0186par0171	I need to ask you exactly what Mr. Inenus said, please.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0187par0172	For one thing, in the introduction of his speech, he may have been physically disturbed, not only by our fellow MPs but also by the heads of state, referring to previous meetings, parliamentary meetings, but he once left our group, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, under suspicion. Plus, in his speech, linking the government of the Republic of Turkey to terrorist organizations, like selling oil...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0186par0173	Mr. Inetry, I'll give you two minutes, but please don't let us challenge a new taunt. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0187par0178	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, of course we're going to talk about the stand of the nation, but while we're doing this, our own country, our state, our nation... our policies can of course be criticised, but as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, there will be complaints from their own country, talks that try to bring down their own country, and if you do this in irony, then, of course, there will be a need to address it in terms of protest and record. First of all, the Russian plane was shot down, and today you stand up to sort it out. We want to make it clear that we have rejected such expressions. In the south of our country, Syria, there are some developments here, while Russian planes are violating our airspace, violating our territory, while he's being given the necessary notices, of course the Republic of Turkey is not a banana republic and will do what it has to do.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0188par0181	16 islands are occupied!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0187par0182	Other than that, in his entire speech, in an ironic way, referring to previous meetings here to our President and fellow lawmakers...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0189par0183	Mr. Bozkurt, please...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0187par0184	I strongly recommend that the offender who gave this speech first look in the mirror. That's how he exposed himself by giving such a speech. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, when you were talking about the trades and the adjectives, in fact, to me, you entered into a much bigger failure. You won't be able to divide this country with your subconscious messages, we won't make you divide this country.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0190par0188	You're the one who's interrupting.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0191par0189	You'll split it!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0187par0190	As we bring up our tradesman, the Ahilik, and the citizens of the east and the southeast, to the tradesmen... we have engaged in all the economic, social, political areas that have not been done in the fight against terrorism for 14 years, so that those shutters can be opened, our trades can be won, regional differences can be removed. So it was also ironic that you were talking about tradesmen here, ignoring the persecution of our trade brothers and sisters there, the persecution of terrorists, the PKK's terrorist organization. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0192par0193	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz. Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0193par0195	He's been picked on by targeting me directly, so I'll answer.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0192par0196	What exactly did he tell you?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0193par0197	Putting the country in a state of misery, complaining, taking action that would put the country in a difficult position.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0194par0198	Didn't I tell you? I mean, I'll answer if the President lets me.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0195par0200	Here you are, Mr. Bilgen, and I'll give you two minutes, so please don't let us challenge you again.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0196par0202	Now, I'd like to close the discussion on this mental health thing first, but since you brought it up, look, there are doctors on Facebook who are commenting on this right now, sharing things, prisoners. However, it is the doctor's duty and the patient's right. But if it means anything to you, I remind you that as one of the conditions of the metaphor -- whoever you read in the Islamic philosophy of politics -- you have to be smart. Now, if there's a problem with my mental health, a panel of referees is set up; the Medical Association, the Ministry of Health, international experts treat, diagnose, examine my mental health, make a decision. Mr. President or anyone else -- I don't have any business with people, but -- the people who are in charge of the country's politics, who are in charge, who are in charge, if they have problems, if they have problems, let the country pay the price.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0197par0204	You're the problem.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0196par0205	Yeah, we're not saying anything, okay, no, maybe not.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0197par0206	Then you won't talk.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0196par0207	But we say that when something like this happens, it's worth...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0197par0209	You won't talk... then you won't talk.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0196par0210	Dear MPs, look, there was a king in this country called Ibrahim the madman, so don't make me tell his stories in a minute.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0198par0212	Wait a minute! What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0199par0213	Well, Mr. President, can it be that way?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0198par0214	Don't talk like that! What the hell!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0200par0215	No, I'm going to finish my words, so let me take my time.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0198par0217	Don't talk like that, okay? What the hell!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0201par0218	It's a shame!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0202par0219	Is that even possible? He's systematically continuing this. Is that acceptable?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0203par0220	Congressmans, let him finish.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0204par0221	Mr. President... Sit down.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0203par0223	One moment, Mr. Idris Baluken. Let him finish, one second.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0205par0225	Mr. President, I have 47 seconds.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0206par0227	Mr. President, this is not a conversation, President! That's enough!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0205par0228	Sit down, sit down, calm down!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0207par0229	Sit down, sit down! Don't yell like that!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0208par0230	Go ahead and finish it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Bilgen, please finish.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0209par0233	Calm down!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0208par0234	And I forbid you to say mean and hurtful things, please, please.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0209par0235	What are you going to say, defending me for picking on crazy Abraham?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0210par0236	Isn't there a crazy Abraham in history?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0211par0237	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0209par0238	Have a seat. Calm down, calm down.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0212par0239	You're still insulting me!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0209par0240	As for making the country miserable...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0213par0242	Shame on you! You're not ashamed!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0214par0243	What the hell? Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0213par0244	You're still talking! You're insulting the President. Shame on you! Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0215par0246	Mr. President, will you keep the peace?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0216par0247	Go ahead and think about where you're going.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0213par0248	Mr. President... shame on you!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0217par0249	You can't insult the President! Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0218par0251	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0219par0252	We're talking about making sure the country doesn't get caught up in it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0220par0254	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0219par0255	We're talking about you burning the country to fill your own pockets. Whether you like it or not, it's like this, unfortunately.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0221par0256	He's being rude, Mr. President, please silence him.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0222par0257	You're still insulting me!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0223par0258	You're slandering the whole nation.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0224par0259	If the country is in distress today, if this country is disgraced in the international arena, if we don't have one neighbor left, it's on you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0225par0260	Sit the fuck down!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0224par0261	We're not complaining about it, but on the contrary, fix it so this country doesn't get embarrassed, okay?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0226par0262	Mayor, should we get going?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0224par0263	I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0227par0264	Speak properly! That's enough! You don't sound like a man! It doesn't suit you! It's a shame, isn't it?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0228par0265	It suits you, it suits you...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0224par0266	We're talking like men, man!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0229par0267	Mr. Idris, please shut him up.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0230par0268	Congressmans, one moment, sit down. Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0231par0270	No insult, Mr. President, no insult in his speech. What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0230par0271	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0232par0272	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0233par0273	Are you Ibrahim Pasha's lawyer? Are you the lawyer of the madman Ibrahim?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0234par0274	Open the transcripts, no insults.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0275	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0233par0276	They strangled the madman Abraham, and you want to drown him? You're not doing me any favors.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0234par0277	And you're gonna drown him.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0278	Sit down, I promise, sit down. Now, first of all, he binds the bad word, he binds the word, he binds the preacher, he doesn't deal. Everyone needs to know that.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0236par0281	President, you're commenting.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0282	You can criticize, you can criticize, it's your natural right, but you can't put anyone on this stand, you can't investigate, this nation can't accept it, nor this Council can't allow it. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0237par0283	Who are you telling? What sentence is there in question?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0284	Congressmans, look, I talked to him the other day, and look, there's some accusations...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0237par0285	Get those transcripts out.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0286	What if someone tells you that you've lost consciousness, that you need psychological treatment? Would you accept that? Would you accept?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0238par0287	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0237par0288	No, he did that as a general assessment.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0289	You can admit it, it's your problem. But you can't use words like that here.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0239par0290	Yeah, it's a patient's right, don't you get it? They have mental health hospitals.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0237par0291	Pull out the records and see if there's anything personal about it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0292	Look, lawmakers are the head of the Republic according to Article 104. He represents the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the Turkish Nation. Again, on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, he represents the Commander-in-Chief of the Turkish Armed Forces. You may very well criticize our President, but no one can question him with accusations that will overcome severe criticism. Criticizing is one thing, but each one of these statements seems to have a fixed crime charge, and especially by conducting a perception operation, I want you to know that neither this nation nor this Parliament will accept your propaganda against the public, and you can't smear it in the public's heart.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0237par0294	You can't comment like that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0240par0295	Don't decide what to do! Sit down, sit down!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0296	As a result, it must not be forgotten that the head of state is the President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0237par0297	Get in here, talk from here.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0241par0298	He's reading from paper, the Speaker's reading from paper right now.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0299	He represents the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the Turkish nation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0237par0300	Mr. President, get in here and read from here. You're running the coven. Shame, shame!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0241par0301	He reads it on paper, he's prepared!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0302	Please, I'd like to ask you to use your words in a reasonable manner. Look, I'm here to take this from this Constitution and the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0242par0303	You can't comment.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0304	Article 161 of the Civil Code prohibits the President, the Speaker of Parliament, from assaults against the Council of Parliament, charges, and gives authority to the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0243par0305	What attack, Mayor?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0244par0306	Tell us objectively...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0307	Please, members of lawmakers, from now on, everyone should use the word they're going to use and think about where it's going to go. The accusation, the slander...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0245par0308	Are you starting a new era, Mr. President, in the House? What do you mean, after this?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0309	Look, you can't use cruel and hurtful words.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0246par0310	Can you tell us, objectively, in what sentence, are you making these statements?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0311	Now, look, the Civil Code...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0246par0312	There's no insult to the character in any of the talks that Hati made there.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0313	As an example, if he's going to stand up here and accuse Mr. President of mental health...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0246par0314	Historically, from date to date, government officials...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0315	...if it's really going to run a perception operation, I won't allow it on this stand, I won't allow it, I just want you to know that no vice president will allow it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0246par0317	Mr. President, we need you to tell us what sentence you made to explain about the character. Which one, which one? Tell me.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0247par0318	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0319	He used a lot of metaphors in an ironic way to express them here...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0246par0320	You can't just add a personal comment like that. You run the House, you're not the AKP group president.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0248par0321	You're still objecting. Sit down!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0322	...and speaking of yesterday's debate, I don't think it's right for the General Assembly to take the same approach despite the decision of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0246par0323	You're not the deputy leader of the AKP group.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0324	I'm the Deputy Speaker of the House.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0246par0325	You have to give us a concrete statement about that conversation.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0326	I'm the Deputy Speaker of the House, and I'll make my opinion very clear and clear.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0249par0328	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0235par0329	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0249par0330	Since you have violated Article 64 of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's 64th Amendment, I demand a formal debate under Article 63 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I demand a word against your attitude.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0250par0331	You're in violation now.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0251par0332	Against you...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0252par0333	No more neutrality, Mr. President, no more neutrality.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0250par0334	I'm not opening it!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0253par0335	Now, Mr. Altay, read the number 161. Look, if the 161st article here gives you a mandate, then under that authority, the Deputy Speaker of Parliament here must make the necessary corrections.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0254par0336	Read the second paragraph of 64, Mr. President. Let everyone hear it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0253par0337	I read the third paragraph of 161.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0254par0338	Read all about it, everyone.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0253par0339	Look, this is a special authorization for the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, the Presidential Court. During the talks, a crime has been committed against the President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the President of the Grand National Assembly, the Vice President of Turkey, to insult, abuse, or threaten the President, or abuse the Turkish Republic or its Constitution. There has been a crime committed here and the punishment for the removal of this Parliament was imposed yesterday by the General Assembly -- on the proposal of the Vice President of the Parliament. If he makes such accusations today based on similar statements, similar arguments, based on yesterday's debate, using different metaphors, I will stand up on this basis, and I will use my authority in the Civil Law, and at this point I will make the necessary corrections.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0255par0340	There's no such accusation. Mr. President, how do you say the same thing? There's no such thing as an accusation, there's no such thing. There's no such accusation, there's no such thing. What sentence is there?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0254par0341	You don't have that authority. You don't have that authority. Mr. President, I'd like you to read Article 64.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0256par0343	Wait a second... Read Article 66.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0254par0345	I say '64, you say '66.'
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0256par0346	I'll come to 64, just a second.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0257par0347	Don't shout! Why are you shouting! Don't shout!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0254par0348	Did you just call me Lan?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0257par0349	I told you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0254par0350	Did you call me Lan? Did you call me Lan?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0257par0351	Don't shout, talk like a human being!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0258par0352	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0257par0353	You're not gonna scream!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0259par0354	Don't be rude. I'm talking to the president, he can't hear me.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0257par0355	Talk to who, talk to them without yelling.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0260par0356	Mr. Altay, Mr. Erdinç, please...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0259par0357	You dirty man!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0260par0359	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0261par0360	Sit the fuck down! How many days you've been building this place with such brute force!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0259par0361	What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0262par0362	What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0259par0363	Mr. President, 64 is very clear, I demand a formal discussion.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit02spe0263par0364	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0263par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the sixth round of the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Act. The commission is here. The government is here. Yes, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0264par0006	I repeat my request, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0263par0007	You have a request for a formal debate, and I will grant it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0265par0008	Lehte...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0266par0009	Lehte...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0267par0010	Against...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0268par0011	Against...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0269par0012	Lehte, İlkinur İnceöz, Yilmaz Tunç; against him, Engin Altay, Idris Baluken. Yes, the first word in favor belongs to Mr. Yilmaz Bronze. Here you go, Mr. Bronze. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You're on for three minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0270par0019	Mr. President, I've been promised a favour by the esteemed MPs to discuss the procedure. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. The Usul debate opened at the request of a Republican People's Party deputy regarding the position of our Deputy Speaker, after a speaker, a HDP MP, spoke insultingly to our President. Now, first of all, let's say that we are bound by the Constitution and the Civil Law. Article 104 of our Constitution is open. Article 104 of our Constitution is the head of the President State. It represents the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the Turkish Nation; it monitors the implementation of the Constitution, the regular and harmonised work of state bodies. The 161th article of our Turkish Parliament is open again. The 161st article binds all of us. In the third joke of Article 161, insulting the President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the Council of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Vice President of the Grand National Assembly, and the Vice President of the Presidential Assembly during the meeting of the 161st Article... requires the punishment of removing three mergers from parliament. In previous days, a Republican People's Party MP has made heavy insults to our President -- none of us approves of those sentences, not even the deputy leader of his own party -- and he has been sentenced to remove two mergers from parliament. What the HDP MP has done today is to maintain the insults of that MP here today. In fact, we are faced with a situation that requires the removal of the Parliament, which is consistent with the third joke of Article 161 of the Civil Code. Look, these insults have been done to other leaders in the past. Who was it made for? Whatever leaders are in the hearts of the nation, certain factions have made the same insults to those leaders. They did it to Celal Bayar. They did it to the late Adnan Menderes. They said, "They did it to the late Turgut Özal. They also said, "We will bring him down from Çankaya." They said, "He is the fat man of Çankaya." Now you wish to continue the same insults against our president, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who once again stood in the hearts of the nation. But, you know, people are watching your insults, and you're not gonna be able to erase it from the hearts of the people. We're going to repeat this from here one more time, and we're going to return these insults to you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our Speaker's position is in order. I'd like to point out that we're in your favor. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to ask that the suspension be considered in connection with this MP. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0271par0031	First word against Mr. Engin Altay. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0272par0034	Thank you. Mr. President, despite my insistence, you have not read Article 64, and I will tell you that the President or the Vice President cannot participate in the debate, except in the circumstances required to fulfill his duties; personal rights are reserved. Now, Mr. President, of course, an insult to the President is a business I don't approve of, and we don't approve. There seems to be a large and long discussion of whether or not there is an insult. However, Mr. President, in every criticism of the President, you are not entitled to this kind of interference, comments by the ruling party's parliamentary deputies in particular. You are responsible for implementing the Civil Code, your duties are written in the Civil Code. I mean, of course, I find your great respect for the President, your motive in the desire to be loyal, a normal understanding and a human being, but please, while you're here, if you're not on duty, you'll come out and defend the President, you'll defend him. There's no way we can let this happen, and there's no way we can accept it. I've always said that the last place to break the law is in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. As for the insult to the President, how nice is Yilmaz Bronzeç, who has studied the Constitution here. Well, thank you very much. This says that the 101st Article of the Constitution, which you read, will also cease to be associated with the President's party.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0273par0038	It's already been cut off.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0272par0039	According to Article 103, he swears by his honor and honor that he will be neutral in contrast to the oath of lawmakers. We don't want the President to be debated. We also know that you've been feeding on this argument. On the contrary, the President should not be discussed in this country, but if we are to discuss his budget, we should discuss Ahmet Davutoglu, whose budget we discussed here.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0273par0040	But you're arguing.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0272par0041	But it doesn't mean that, as I said last time, the President will be criticized, all presidents have been criticized.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0274par0042	Criticizing is one thing, insulting is another.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0272par0043	Mustafa Kemal was criticized in this country. Just yesterday, a member of your parliament criticised Ismet Inönul. Our MPs have warned me, it's political criticism, it can do it." I said. Politics will be a criticism. I've said at least 10 times for Mr. Erdogan from here. You're angry. I said, this is a political criticism. And there's been a sit-down on this, but on other matters, insult, I don't think it's right. Not that I'm underestimating an insult, not to the President, but to everyone, whoever it is, even to our friend here, the Kaves have the same rights to me as our friend and the President. (CHP cheers) He has the same rights. Therefore, if the President is doing business and processing as the head of the administration, as written in this Constitution, there is nothing more natural than the criticism of Mr. President in these budget talks. You have to accept that. It's insulting... Honestly, I promise, if there's an insult, I'll take my word and intervene before you do.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0275par0046	We're waiting for him.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0272par0047	But not if you jump when the President's name is mentioned. My desire is still that Recep Tayyip Erdogan was elected by the people's votes. I said from this bench, "Thank God, he's been chosen. Good luck." He has a place above our heads. But at this point, the opposition parties... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish Mr. Erdogan hadn't said those words to everyone who wasn't himself. You -- it wasn't long enough -- you made such analogies to Mr. Erdogan that -- here you are -- you made such metaphors that you didn't give up your prophethood or your second prophecy.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0276par0052	For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0272par0053	And, Mr. President, that's a bit of an exaggeration. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0277par0056	It's because of your jealousy that she's become like this.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0272par0057	I'll tell you what you said one day.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0278par0058	Mr. Engin, don't you think you're defending a friend of the Kavas, but didn't your friend insult you for clearing the bench?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0279par0059	The second word in favor is yours, Mr. Inuöz. Here you go. Congressmans, please don't interfere. Let's not disturb the character on the stand.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0280par0063	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have just made a commitment on the procedure, as the Republican People's Party requests a debate on the procedure. Well, first of all, I really agree with what you're saying, but when it comes to practice, I also criticize the fact that you don't sound the same. I'd like to point out in particular. Of course, everyone in this country can be criticized, of course it can be talked about, but, of course, it can be criticized, it can be insulted, and if it's to be systematically done from this stand at all times, our objection is to that. The speaker has not only mentioned the name of our President, but the intelligence, perception of everyone here, is capable of understanding who he means, along with the examples of the past in the conversation. Otherwise, it will also be considered an insult to our fellow lawmakers. I agree with 64, however, that the president should be neutral in carrying out the duties of the vice president. But Mr. President, when he had just carried out this decree of the Civil Code, together, in the Civil Charter -- the third joke of my brother -- mentioned by the Yilmaz -- the Speaker of Parliament, if the second joke of 64 stood there and did not speak out in any way, then he would have been in violation of the Civil Charter. 161/3: During the negotiations, the President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Speaker of Parliament, and the Chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as he performs his post of president, the President of the Republic of Turkey, the President of the Republic of Turkey, or the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0281par0066	The application is separate, Mr. President will not comment.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0280par0067	If 161/3 had any other attitude when we were there, then we'd want to open up the argument in the same way that we didn't apply the Civil Code. That's one. However, in fact, with these systematic insults, along with subliminal messages, he has been elected by 52 per cent of the vote, indeed, not only in the capacity of our President, but in particular, I say this -- every member of parliament here -- as the natural leader of our party, founded in 2001, as President of the Founder, has brought change and transformation to the country for 14 years, and has served in every field, and has, for the first time, been elected by the vote of the President of the Constitution, and, of course, when he is elected, we would not remain neutral, and we would certainly not be silent about any insult to our President, who declared his side would be a party member of the nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In favor of your attitude, I think your attitude is correct. In every insult here, the goal is actually 52 percent nation.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0282par0071	48%...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0280par0072	...that the militia also means insult, which is not to be ignored, I salute.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0283par0074	Second and final word against Mr. Idris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0284par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you all. The content of the clause in the procedure debate is very clear: either the president or the vice president cannot participate in the debate except in the circumstances in which he should perform his duties. However, when the AKP's Parliament Speakers run the General Assembly, when there is the slightest criticism of their own political parties or the President, they are forced to comment on their political views and respond to political parties in such a state, they feel this obligation.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0285par0080	It's not a criticism, it's an insult.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0284par0081	Now, that argument was held yesterday. Yesterday, again, the AKP's deputy speaker of parliament, with a personal comment on every comment we've made, surely with a political response, was able to pick up a reply from there, over and over again from the Presidential Court. Now, that attitude isn't right for once.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0286par0082	Mr. Baluken, would you mind if someone called you a mental patient?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0284par0083	Look, I've told you from the very beginning, we, the HDP, have not been involved in any discussion about the President's character or family here, and we don't intend to be, but we've done the harshest, harshest criticism of the policies he's set for the President's position outside his own mandate. This is our most natural right. I asked for the minutes in the back of our speaker's speech today, and I said to the president, "What word, what sentence did he insult you with, and you couldn't bring those transcripts?"
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0287par0084	We wanted to, so we're waiting.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0288par0085	The report didn't come, so we asked for it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0284par0086	Mr. Orator, speaking on behalf of our group, from Ottoman to today...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0289par0087	Did he mean Demirtaş, who did he mean when he said Mad İbrahim?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0284par0088	...he gave a speech about the framework of the government's management system that should be and shouldn't be, and he identified it with the current and presented it with political criticism to the General Assembly. Whether you agree with it or not, if you agree with it, you will not be in any position to respond by accepting your current situation from there, but if you do not, you can point out from here where you disagree with that political criticism. Your group is so sensitive that even when the President is in any sentence, with such a riot, a brute force preparation within the House...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0289par0089	It's not that, it's not that; we react when it's an insult.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0290par0090	We don't know what's behind it, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0284par0091	...the obligation to set up an event, such a search, that is a wrong attitude. Our minister has nothing to do with the President's character, with his family. The historical assessments and current criticisms of his speech are all incompatible with the political criticism expressed by HDP. Nor is it right for the president to comment on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0291par0095	Thank you, lawmakers. Congressmans, I'm reading the second joke of Article 64, Mr. Altay insisted, of course: the President or the Vice President can't participate in debates other than the duties required to be carried out by drawing the bottom... ▪ Where are the tasks required? Again, there are 65, 66, 67, 68, and 161. What does Article 65 say? I point out again to interrupt the General Assembly -- it is forbidden to deal with the individual and to act out of order. It is one. The 66th article also regulates the president's interrupting situation. The statement of the member of the council can only be interrupted by the President to invite him to observe the Charter and not to leave the subject. The 67th article, again, gives the president this authority as a condition of his duty, and regulates the way he speaks. The president, who speaks rude and hurtful words in the General Assembly, continues immediately, to speak in a clean language, although he does not use a clean language. There's more in 68, I don't read it. The 161st article... it's not a procedure. So reading the 161st article, of course, is more of a subject than a procedure for the procedure. Thus, he gives all these powers to the President of the Civil Code. So as one of the things that my mission requires, in each of these substances, this is actually mentioned, this is one. Second: Of course, I have no desire to interfere with anyone's speech here, nor do I have such a duty, except for the Civil Code. We're just saying that we need to have a beautiful work process that's appropriate for the presence of our Congress, in a way that's really appropriate for the dignity of our nation, the honor of all of us, and that's all we're asking. And at this point, we'd like to have every veteran on the stand pay maximum attention, show the highest respect to the members of the General Assembly against any bench. We are fully intent on this, and in this context, we hope and hope that all of the provisions here... are not in the pleasure of implementing every judgment, nor do we have such a desire, such as any judgment. But, here, in mutual understanding, with harsh but appropriate statements, everyone can express different truths on their own terms, everyone can do their own will, but no one else has to agree with another, but he has to listen with respect. Therefore, our MPs, this is what we intend to do. I say we all take the maximum attitude in order to maintain a productive working basis, to maintain, to ensure that my investment in the budget remains intact. Again, I'd like to thank you all for your sensitivity to all groups. And in this context, I'd like to say that there's no change in my attitude. 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 I) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014 The second word on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group belongs to Ankara MP Sırrıyya Önder. I'd like to call Mr. Leader to the stand. [[Applause from HDP rows]] And your time is 20 minutes. Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0292par0153	Thank you. Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. Ayhan Bilgen had finished with one word from our friend Lord Ali (RA), and I want to begin with it. The rest of that statement goes on to the commander, and his advice to the people he will fight against, in the talk of war, the morality of war, the law of war within himself, remember that it is your wife, or your brother, who is obedient to you. I mean, he doesn't even take religion as one thing, he talks about being created as a human being as a law. It's impossible to disagree with the president's last speech, he's well-advised and well-addicted. He said that he had acted under the authority of the Constitution and the Civil Code, but I wish Mr. President had been as loyal to the Constitution and constitutional institutions as our Vice President. You know, I don't respect him, and I don't intend to. He had an evaluation.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0293par0157	That's not what he said, bro!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0292par0158	Now, my dear friends, I'm going to try to talk to you about the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks, and speak to you on behalf of my party. But to do so, since 2002, the EC PARTI would need a declaration of origin and election declarations before preparing for the government action programmes and government programmes. Sustainable environmental and ecology sensitivity is only in this party's corporate declaration. In the government program that follows him immediately, the dust is being wiped away, and it's not being released again, and as a practice, we don't see any government action or influence. Here, you know, the Forest Law, the Mera Law and the Metropolitan Law were discussed during the 24th term. I'd like to take some of this. A summary of the political line that the current government represents, and its position, what they describe as modern conservativeism, is intertwined with neoliberal policies, marketing neoliberal policies and EU requirements, European Union legislation. When we look at this government serenca that lasts more than a decade, we see that all efforts -- which seem to be good for the preservation of a sustainable environment, ecological rights and other cultural and social assets -- have been brought up with the obligation to comply with the European Union's legislation, but when it comes to a practical attitude -- are rapidly shifting into a free marketer, neoliberal understanding. That's the summation of what we're watching, what we're seeing. Now, the Forest Law, the Coast Act -- the law to protect the coasts and coasts -- is the regulations for the ports, the Metropolitan Law, especially when the opposition was discussing the Metropolitan Law -- had always said it was the preparation to open a door to division and autonomy. Our people have a saying: "What my beloved thinks is called the heads of friends." Oh, I wish. What happened? The Metropolitan Law, especially the surrounding and urban areas, and the forested areas, were linked to municipalities in terms of an important law enforcement process. But again, in terms of the environment, the public has handed over its obligation to municipalities, but it has financed policies that are only available to its closest municipalities and its macro policy, leaving the others as they were. When it came to the forest, the tree, and the environment, there were two major incidents in government officials that caused trauma: one was the Trip movement, and the other was the development of Artvin Cerattepe, you know. This has made the Minister so agitated that for the first time and positively, Mr. Prime Minister, I should listen to the civil society and the objectors there. When he said, he gave a preemptive speech saying that there would be no steps to sabotage this meeting. It was an injustice to Mr. Prime Minister in the first place, and at the same time it was vicious, because he's the Prime Minister in this country, but the Minister entered a prerequisite that reminded him of his own red lines. What's the first thing that comes from these red lines? As you think, it's not spiritual or conservative, it's marketing. The National View movement, the movement that evolved from the National View movement to here... we took off the National View shirt by the AK PARTI pioneers. When it was said that the opposition had always accused them of hypocrisy: "No, in fact, you are mentally, subconsciously nationalist. The government was telling the truth. They sat on a Neoliberal political line, literally stripping themselves of everything about national opinion and nationalism. Let's start with what happened in Artvin. And then we're going to connect it to what happened in the Travel movement, and we're going to try to see how they cut all ties from the National View movement, both ideologically and practically, together. Before, the National View... as everyone in my age group will remember, when we were going to schools, there were paintings like horseshoes, and it was a sign for all of us to increase the sensitivity of the environment, the forest, the trees. What was he saying on that sign, Sultan Mehmet Han of the Conqueror, was saying: "I will cut off the head of a branch cut off from my forest."
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0294par0166	It's a good thing this Minister didn't live through that period.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0292par0167	Mr. Secretary and I are probably in the same age zone, maybe a few years older than us. May God grant you a long life. Now, the AK PARTY has cut off all interest in this Conqueror Sultan decree, the National View was very sensitive to it. Now we have the honeys, we have the long rope, we go into the forest, we go into the forest. Because here I will cut off the head of a branch cut off from my forest. We have forgotten the decree. I say a bad word to them. There's a new, unrooted class of capital in this country where this neoliberal understanding is growing. What they said about Cerattepe's defense is that now, when the resistance of the people of Artvin and democratic forces returned to the memory of the Trip, it became a great delusion, and they made a copper mine that had been coded as a gold mine for 25 years, and it did not escape from any of the eyes who had seen it, but it did not escape. So why did that gold mine become a copper mine? The sensitivity was about cyanide, and under the ground gold is not removed without cyanide, it is not necessary for copper. All of a sudden, they're copperd, like the machine of Con Ahmet. They're inserting something, turning it into something else, they're very clever about it, you have to give them their rights. That's why this 25-year-old license was suddenly turned over. It's a completely contrary statement, Mr. Minister, I know that, in fact, maybe I've just taken some of your sin, and they say to the Prime Minister: "Ya, this spear can't fit in this sack, don't negotiate with them for nothing, because we're going to build an indoor gallery. Everybody who knows that it can't be closed can't be closed at the elementary school level. There is talk of 17 million tons of reserve; it's not all gold, it's just a reserve, don't rejoice, it's a reserve. Now, two tons...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0295par0170	So there's copper.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0292par0171	Of course there's copper. Friends, there's a lot of byproducts when you extract gold, but when you're called a mine, the method and judge there is called a target mine, so if you don't, coal comes out while you're doing it, maybe oil comes out, but all the work bases, equipment, infrastructure, gold is built according to it. Now, roughly one cubic meter of 2 tons, and if we talk about 17 million tons of reserves, there's going to be an area of about 8.5 million cubic meters underground. Mr. Secretary tried to tell the Prime Minister that perhaps because he worked so hard in the execution, practically knowing the field, there's nothing under the ground if we dig up 8.5 million cubic metres. So don't tell these environmentalists we're going to shut down. Genghis Construction also received this announcement and said: "What about the space to come out of here?" Those who have seen Artvin know that Artvin is not a flat place, his topography, his geography is one of the most advanced regions of this world. Now, we're not going to cut a tree, and we can't use cyanide as an intention, he says, but we're not going to use it. He's not going to commit to anything, and he doesn't want to be guaranteed by contract. All right, well, it's just that Ali Genghis is doing a play on his name, Genghis Construction: We're not going to cut down the tree, but the land that could cause the excitement is going to get up to five meters. Please, I'm asking you all to imagine. How is this five meters of dirt going to get out? Let me put it to the Minister that, for example, they're going to shave your head. So if we accept these wires as trees, we're going to go bald there. They say, "Well, that's something else." You scraped it up to 5 meters, the soil from here -- a rough calculation -- 385 thousand cubic meters. I don't know, did the Minister get these numbers? I got these numbers from the documents of environmental organisations, environmentally sensitive organisations and vocational rooms there. 77,000 square meters, roughly 378 thousand cubic meters, something like that. They claim its contribution to the country's economy is 2%. I mean, it's probably because the gold's gonna come out, that's all it's gonna be? But let's say for a second that they're the same number that they're maxisizing, 2 percent. This is one of the most important points that has ever left the National View. Mr. Secretary, I don't think... we haven't seen those practices of the environment and the forest, and I'm just saying that we haven't seen them in, like, five years, and we haven't seen you think for two days, two days. This is what we were promised today. We're looking at the company they're talking about. Is he an aspiring miner? There's no sign of it. The more I know about the mine, the more I know about gold and copper, the more this firm understands. We're not slandering. The firms have an assessment of themselves and their occupational areas. When we looked at them, I had nothing to do with this firm except drink mineral water. So we don't see how vulgar they're going to be in this 2% account. I'll tell you one simple thing: it won't hurt the environment. I'd like to bring your attention to the assessments of the government spokesman and Mr. President regarding the third airport. He says, "Sir, it's balded and barren by miners." Didn't he say that, Mr. President? Didn't each of us hear this assessment dozens of times as a reason for the third airport to be built? Those who are curious about the future of Artvin can only see that this third airport has a small Google scan of the forest quality that would have made Artvin even jealous before. Because the Artvins have this sensitivity that you don't have, they can predict what their home will be like in the future. Because what you're doing is a guarantee of what you're going to do. Now, what's unaccounted for? It's a social cost. This head is a mercantylist head, and they know that the contribution to two percent national economies is, well, that's a billion dollars... Now, we've learned on occasion the owner of this firm's opinion of all of our noble and humble mothers. It's not hard to imagine how anyone would approach the ground if they didn't show our mothers this ritual. Mr. President stood up and said: "These are the Travelers of Yavru." He was very angry. From the sound of his body, from the body language, we can tell from the sound of his voice that he was very upset by the Prime Minister's interview. If the National View had a small reputation, the right of the wolf, the bird, and the ant would be included in this 2% assessment. I gave up such a view as nationalism, and if you had a concern about what you often refer to as localism and nationalism, you could see how this would have left the country barren, how it would have contributed to the budget of this year or 12 years, but in the future it would have caused irreparable and inextricable damage. Why can't a man be sure of himself, living today, living daily, not sure of himself? You got 50% of the vote. Does a party that gets 50 percent of the vote have any self-esteem? What drives you to be sensitive enough to take a blow to the tree of Artvin, its bird, its ant, even the people who own it, is that you know that your policy is not a big deal, it's a marketer, it's a neoliberal approach, it's a nonhuman thing. We will discuss the trip on another occasion. I salute you all. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit03spe0296par0183	Thank you. I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0296par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume our sixth round of round talks with the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Act. The commission and the government are in place. It is now on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group that Mardin MP Erol Dora (HDP) belongs to the People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Dora. And your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0297par0007	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources bill for 2016. I salute the General Assembly. In a largely industrialized world, the valued lawmakers are the main factors that determine energy sources, political, military and economic strategies. For the past two hundred years, all major wars have been known to be based on international large alliances and political moves, largely on the desire to dominate energy sources. Today, in the Middle East, where the world's most important oil and natural gas reserves are located, there is a great battle in which we all follow closely. Both the Middle East and the world's political balances are being restored, borders, power sharing and governance are being redesigned. Imperialist forces with the world's largest economies -- primarily the United States, Russia, China and the EU -- are doing their calculations based on energy needs to predict 20 years ahead. Dear lawmakers, in order to make more sense of what's going on, we need to take a closer look at the state of the world's energy sources and the predictions of energy consumption over the next decade. Today, the world provides 87 per cent of its energy from fossil fuels such as oil, natural gas, and coal. The oil, which has a strategic position among primary energy sources, meets 33 per cent of the world's energy demand and 24 per cent of natural gas, according to 2013. Nuclear energy is 4.5 per cent among energy sources; hydroelectric energy is 6.7 per cent and renewable energy can meet energy demand at 1.9 per cent. So far, various international institutions and organisations, such as the International Energy Agency, the US Energy Ministry, BP, Exxon Mobile and Gazprom, have long been envisioned to protect the share of oil and natural gas in primary energy consumption. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the world's daily oil consumption takes place in 90 million barrels. This is met by some 30 million barrels by Middle Eastern countries. 56% of the world's oil reserves are found in Gulf countries covering Iraq, Iran, Qatar, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. About 43 per cent of the proven natural gas reserves are found in the Middle East, 29 per cent in Russia and the former Soviet Union, 8 per cent in Asian Pacific countries, and 6 per cent in North America. Dear MPs, Turkey provides 55 per cent of its gas demand from Russia, and the rest is supplied from Iran and Azerbaijan. It is not possible to supply the amount of gas from Russia with another alternative in a short time. However, we are not alternative to government officials. Qatar, there's Turkishmenistan gas. It means that they're going to make trips to these countries and making statements to mislead the public. In the 1990s, when Turkey's energy needs are involved, authorities have always applied to the hammock. When we look at the period of AKP governments, we see similar statements from government officials in any situation where Russia is in trouble with the government. With all these explanations, our great state, we don't compromise. By creating emotions in the form of it, society was asked to be manipulated, but Turkey is becoming more dependent on Russia by energy every day. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the nuclear plant project, developed as an alternative to electricity production in Turkey, is also done by Russian companies. For example, 51 per cent of the nuclear power plant in Akkuyu will be Russia's and Russia will sell the electricity produced here to Turkey with the guarantee of buying it. As part of being an external energy-dependent country, we're finally witnessing with concern after the Russian plane crisis that Turkey is being humiliated internationally because of the AKP government's diplomatic failures. Oil and natural gas, in today's world, fuel is not the only source of heat in our car. It has become an important economic, political and even military force that determines the balances in world politics. In this context, the AKP government does not have the luxury of making unpredictable political, diplomatic moves on energy sources, such as oil and natural gas, which we heavily import. In this regard, rational and peaceful policies are needed for the benefit of Turkey and the region's people. Dear lawmakers, no doubt one of the most important topics is the mines. In Turkey, mining activities have been proven once again at the expense of the lives of hundreds of our people, with the lack of technical infrastructure, the vast lack of security of the working environment, the catastrophes of Soma and Ermenek left no doubt. As a result of the catastrophe in Soma, 301 mining workers are, of course, a simple business accident, and reading about the situation through the concept of the accident, contenting with the efforts to heal relatives of those who lost their lives as compensation, means continuing slave labor conditions in the mines. The other thing to remember and point out is that the disaster that happened in Soma (Soma) was presented by the government a century ago by the government, compared with similar events that took place in different countries a century ago, is a confession that the miners in our country were actually employed by slave logic a hundred years ago. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are the first to be replaced by the reports of special organisations that specialize in explosions and fires in Turkey's mines, the lack of production management, the lack of production plans and projects, and the lack of ventilation and failures in the air conditioning. The Mining Engineers' report also shows that the main causes of accidents are caused by preventable problems related to infrastructure and technology, subcontractorisation, private sector takeover policies, the government and ministries have failed to carry out their control functions, as well as that the workers' living rooms have been often seen. The Mining Law and Occupational Health and Safety Law, which have been changed due to the necessary measures after the mining disasters, has been left far behind from the commission's proposals for the reduction of mining accidents in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, the Commission's report on the investigation of the Soma disaster, and its proposals for resolving the negatives have been ignored by TMMOB. In this context, the working conditions and technical competencies of the coal mines in Turkey must be opened to international debate and evolve into international standards. We've experienced over and over again as the whole country that this is too crucial to postpone. We must keep in mind every moment that every time the AKP government boasts about high towers reaching to the heavens, every shining AVM (AVM), every huge growing AVM (AVM), every huge growing TOSKI (HOSE), the lives of workers, and the lives of workers. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, another mining area in the ministry's operating area is the mines that are mined with cyanide. I would like to refer to the Constitution first. In Article 56 of the Constitution, it is estimated that everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment and that it is the duty of the state and citizens to improve the environment, to protect environmental health and environmental pollution. It has also been determined that the aim of the law in Article 2872 of the Environmental Law is to protect, improve the environment, use and protect land and natural resources in the most appropriate way in rural and urban areas, prevent water, soil and air pollution, protect the country's natural and historical wealth and the future generations' health, civilization and life levels, and to establish measures to ensure economic and social development in accordance with the laws and techniques of the country. Dear lawmakers, it is understood that the danger to the production of cyanide and minerals is not only a danger to cyanide. The cancer-making heavy metals, arsenic, mercury, lead, poisons, and the effects it will have on humans and other living creatures after long years of transport to society through subterranean water, are underestimated by cancer events that will occur ten to fifteen years later. According to data presented at the National Pathology Congress, cancer has risen to number 2 of the causes of death over the past 40 years. Again, according to data, Turkey paid about 457 million dollars for cancer drugs in 2012. This figure corresponds to about one fifth of the health ministry's 2012 budget. In addition, air pollution is revealed during the mine's operation as a result of noise pollution and heavy metals in the air. Mr. President, the most valuable lawmakers, the last example to be seen in this sense, Artvin Cerattepe, are the great resistance of the people of Artvin and the life-field advocates against the cyanide mining business, which was intended to be opened by Genghis Holdings. They had cities as big as the Artvin trees, their traditions, their culture, their health, their right to access healthy water and air, their mountains, and their wild animals, in short, their physical and spiritual habitats. Here we welcome once again the sentiment of the people of Artvin. We need to emphasize that it's legitimate to stand up for any kind of mining activity, any kind of personal interest, any kind of Rant project, which is not primarily acceptable to the people around you, which will do more harm than benefit to nature and human beings. And it's a manifestation of environmental sensitivity. The attacks that security forces have developed on the defence of the living spaces of the people of Artvin are absolutely unacceptable. Because it's not the Artvins who disobey the legal process, it's the company and the political will behind it. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, Genghis Holdings, carried the trial that the Artvins won in December 2014 at the Rize Administration Court. The prosecution rejected the request to stop the execution, thus eliminating the firm's grounds for exiting Cerattepe. While the prosecution has not yet concluded the basis of the case, the company has applied to the Ministry of Environment for a new CED, which sees the decision not to stop the execution as a negative signal for itself. Thus, the company made a positive decision from the Ministry of Environment to return to Artvin, taking advantage of the legal gaps. The reason we're talking about this process is to reveal once again how ruthless the Ministry of Environment is towards the environment, against its habitats. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the CED reports have been diverted from the purpose of Turkey. The environmental impact assessment is treated as a formality, being used for all kinds of plunders of the environment. When we look at the Environment Performance Index, which Yale has updated every year, we see Turkey ranked 177 degrees among 180 countries in the nature protection category. What's the point of being so cruel to nature in a country where biodiversity is so rich, we'd like to ask the Minister again. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the sources that makes up a relatively small portion of energy sources is hydropower plants. There are about 2,500 HES projects in Turkey, which have been completed and are being produced, continued and planned. All of these HES projects are expected to be completed in 2023. Even when all of these plants are completed and produced, only 5 per cent of the energy in Turkey will be met, and only 25 to 30 years. Hydroelectric plants don't contribute to the local population, except for a few individual interests with the so-called economic value it will create. In breaking the ecological balance irreparably, it weakens the sustainable economic benefits that nature can offer directly to man. On the other hand, there is a privatizing dimension to the applications we face in the area of HES, but it is not enough to define HES production processes in terms of economics, such as opening a taranta. The name of this process, so to speak, is the plunder of nature, the plunder of its habitats. Mr. President, I'd like to talk to the esteemed MPs about the mines and the HESEs, about a law that has been enforced without prejudice, about the Prohibition Act. As you know, the Council of Ministers was given the authority to confiscate the necessary relocations on the grounds of emergency military needs in the war with the Law on Prohibition of Prohibition of World War II in 1939, with the possibility of Turkey going to war, but the AKP's government has turned it into the law of looting the country in order to hasten public property, rivers and nature. The EPDK has used this authority in energy, mining, natural gas and oil sectors without any legal restrictions or supervision. Precious lawmakers, while investing in new and renewable energy technologies around the world, the AKP's power, one of the renewable sources, has been forgotten, leaving the country at some point in the development and use of wind and solar energy technologies. While important work is being carried out in the developed countries to provide housing heating and cooling systems with geothermal heat pumps, Turkey has no visible study. In this context, the Renewable Energy General Directorate must be restructured into a structure that contributes to scientific and technological projects that contribute to the creation of strategy and policies, which are making efforts to bring other renewable resources into the country's economy, particularly the transport and management of our geothermal resources. Dear lawmakers, in order to reduce external dependence on energy, information production and technology on renewable energy in line with our country's conditions should be invested first in a national energy strategy. Instead of long-term contract agreements, especially gas purchases, an agreement must be made that contracts can be reviewed within short periods of time. In businesses operating within Turkey's Taşkoömu Foundation and Turkey's Coal Company, redevans, service purchase, eras, policies that serve privatisation and subcontractorship should be abandoned and allowed to operate coal companies by the hands of these public institutions. Mortal mining disasters must be tolerated with zero tolerance, and every precaution to prevent these incidents from happening must be meticulously taken. In this framework, a comprehensive domestic service that will comply unconditionally with international labour safety contracts must be carried out immediately. Our proposal for the ministry's Union of Turkish Atomic Energy is clear, it is imperative that the adventure to build a nuclear power plant should be abandoned. In their mines, it is impossible for a weak understanding of governance to run nuclear plants from maintaining the safety of workers. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to finally repeat our calls to the government regarding the nature raid. One must immediately abandon policies that have no purpose other than to develop three or five capital elites under the name of the so-called "subject" who have no doubt that they can transform every mountain, every stone, every stream into metas and profit. None of us have the right to slaughter the habitats of the people and nature. In particular, he says we should stop implementing projects in local investments with central decisions that the public does not approve of, and with those feelings, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0298par0033	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0299par0034	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0298par0035	Our group has a meadow. I demand a brief word according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0299par0036	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0298par0037	On behalf of our group, Mr. Ancient Durmez, if you don't mind...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0299par0038	Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0300par0041	Mr. President, members of the High Assembly, today is the 92nd year of the adoption of the two most fundamental revolutionary laws of our republic. It is the most important turning point in our country's history to remove the myth, to combine education and education into a secular, modern structure, to separate religion from politics. In our recent geography, education, law and administration are painfully seen as secular countries do not survive the environment of ethnic, religious, and religious turmoil, but also in the hands of governance devices in the hands of other countries and sovereign forces. The founder of our country, the great Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends, did not see the republic's regime as a simple management device and form, and considered the republic a project of enlightenment and modernisation, and they have made major revolutions in this direction. On March 1, 1924, Ataturk made a speech on the fifth year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the purpose of the Fifth Legislature, an example of what country he intended and what vision he saw. The nation wants the republic protected from all attacks today and in the future for good and for ever.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0299par0043	Let's complete it, Mr. Durmez.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0300par0044	I'll finish right away, Mr. President. The will of the nation can be shaped as a way for the republic to be established on all the bases that have been tried and proven without any time spent. Since public opinion has been determined to favour the unification of education and teaching, we find it necessary to implement it without delay. The idea of our way out has said that a spiteful understanding outside this generation cannot be a substitute for science. Our path is the path of our founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his dear friends. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0301par0048	Thank you, Mr. Durmaz. 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 I) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014 The last word on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group belongs to Mr. Mehmet Ali Aslan. Mr. Aslan, come in. [[Applause from HDP rows]] You've got 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0302par0096	Mr. President and Mr. General Assembly, I salute you. Mr. Necmettin Erbakan, who died on February 27th, we ask for God's mercy, and we believe that he has made a major breakthrough in Turkey's politics. His ideas were perhaps capable of stopping today's war. Hopefully, his Turkish-Kurdish brotherhood will be implemented with proposals and solution methods for the brotherhood of all the peoples of Turkey. In the same way, we ask God's mercy on Malcolm X., who died in February and was martyred. Malcolm X had a very exemplary statement, something that we all may need today, something that he needs to understand: be very careful with media. If you take what the media gives you, the media can make you love the oppressors and hate the oppressed. In the same way, we pray for God's mercy to Yasar Kemal, who died in February. Do we need energy? There's an energy deficit in Turkey. There's a picture, like, without electricity? There's a picture that's almost every opportunity that's reflected in public that's unrealistic, with official production and consumption figures. In fact, as the country does not have an energy deficit, there is a surplus of energy. We're not using almost 33% of the energy produced right now. However, we are constantly investing in thermal power plants, HES, RES, nuclear power plants and other electricity. Is it because he intends to sell energy to Europe, which no longer wants to contaminate his own land, and we ask the ministers. We've already talked about Hasankeyf, and we're going to talk about it again because Hasankeyf is not a subject to be avoided, to be destroyed by a dam for such power. A law has been passed in violation of Article 63 of the Constitution. In fact, it must be judged and judged in order to make law against the Constitution. Because it's not only legal, it has a conscience, and I'll tell you the conscientious side: he joined Islam during the Hazreti Omer era. He was killed in many territories, led by commanders such as Khalid bin Velid, Muaz bin Cebel, and Iyaz Bin Ganem. Right now, it's underwater, which means all those grave owners are to be buried underwater. The prophet (AS/TK) has a saying: ▪ The persecution of the dead is like the torment of the living. It is also a statement: The damage to the bone of the dead is like the damage to the bone of the living. Other than that, the mother, the father, the brothers, the relatives of the people who live in Hasankeyf are now lying in the graves. Those graves will all be flooded. You guys put your hands on your conscience and question it. So imagine that your mothers, fathers, brothers and sisters will never be able to reach your children's graves again, that they'll be underwater, underwater, under the dam, so you'd really like that? In that sense, we had to ask the people of Hasankeyf, we had to go to a referendum. If it's a democracy, if it's a law, we have to take these roads. Public opinion is constantly misled by the following: "Hasankeyf is not moving, Hasankeyf is moving people. In Hasankeyf, only a few symbolic historical artifacts have been auctioned off. One of them is the Temple of Zeynel Bey. The Zaynel Bey Temple alone, for 16 trillion liras, the old money, the new money, will be moved to $16 million. There are thousands of historical monuments like the Temple of Zeynel. So, if you try to carry these thousands of historical artifacts, you're going to spend a lot more money than you're going to get in 60 years, so you can carry the entire Hasankeyf. And the transport process is very risky, so there's always the possibility of disintegration, destruction, disintegration. If we put aside the historical side of Hasankeyf, we still have to spend a lot more money than the energy revenue the dam will provide, if we just try to make a model. Let's think about 60 years from now. Sixty years from now, our grandchildren will have no energy, no Hasankeyf. So, for a 60-year-old energy, really, the destruction of an ancient place like Hasankeyf is not something that connects mind and image. This is the current Hasankeyf, and according to the latest drawings of the official authorities, this is him after the dam. I mean, how are we supposed to answer to the world, to our grandchildren? I told you last time, and I believe that even if it was forced into the water, a few years later, large budgets would be spent, and the government would do the necessary for the underwater rescue projects again, and the Parliament would make Hasankeyf the agenda again. Hasankeyf is not only the Temple of Zeynel Bey, but there are thousands of historical structures in large and small. The people of Hasankeyf and our people, who are sensitive to historical artifacts, are constantly performing for Hasankeyf in Hasankeyf. Mr. Secretary, please make this look good. The public doesn't want it. In the geography of a people, in their village, in their land, they must be granted the consent of those people because they live there. As you can see here, the ministers aren't opening any museums, there's an opening ceremony to flood a historical, ancient city like Hasankeyf. This will one day be part of the comedy work. Another feature of Hasankeyf: Hasankeyf, who has a twelve thousand years of history, has achieved a natural beauty as a result of the corroding of both water and air and different climate conditions, so there is not only history, but natural beauty; you will not find that beauty anywhere in the world. And the only settlement in the world, with 9 of the 10 criteria in UNESCO's world cultural heritage, is Hasankeyf. Many civilizations have passed away from Hasankeyf, but they have not destroyed Hasankeyf, not even the Mongols; and if they had destroyed it today the city of thousands of years would not have reached this day. It would be shameful for us to destroy what the Mongols have not destroyed, and it would not be fitting for Turkey, nor would it be appropriate for the Parliament, nor would it be appropriate for the government. Again, Hasankeyf, we call it "Hasankeyf" all the time because Hasankeyf, we only get energy. There's a place where it shouldn't be destroyed because it's an endemic animal species, plant species, and they're going to be destroyed; it's also a murder. We have to value the environment, ecology, history, culture, and we have to show it to all the peoples of Turkey and the peoples of the world in Congress. The Tigris River, unfortunately, is now covered in blood -- especially the Tigris River, which passes through Cizre. Funerals, civilian funerals, funerals are being poured out over there by the state's private administration, business vehicles. The body parts of the bodies rise to the surface of the Tigris. This is -- I came from Cizre yesterday -- the buildings that have been destroyed, the constructions that have been destroyed by tanks and artillery are being emptied into the Tigris River, and we ask you, Mr. Secretary, to take immediate action on this matter. It's not just this concrete, it's these things that exploded and didn't explode; it's an unexploded bullet from a tank; we shot it yesterday. These are being poured out into the Tigris River. It harms both the creatures in the Tigris River and endangers human life and life on the side of Iraq, Syria.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0303par0110	You didn't pull the terrorist group's bullets?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0302par0111	Again, in the constructions that we've seen there, they're probably some kind of gas from Europe, from America, and unfortunately, they're being poured out into the Tigris River, and it's very possible to see them on the streets right now. In this regard, the ministers must take the necessary measures, the government must take the necessary measures. Let's talk a little bit about the Turkish Water Institute. Of course, before I forget, there are alternative energy pathways for energy, there are GES, the solar power plant system. Turkey's southeast is the most sunny place in Turkey; Urbana, Mardin, Diyarbakır, Batman. The Hasankeyf Dam can be cancelled, and more energy production from this solar energy can be produced categorically from Hasankeyf. It doesn't hurt anyone, and it helps everyone. This kind of energy needs to be concentrated on. Many European countries don't see the right sun, but they've built solar systems in many places, and in many places, they've built an air-resource system. The Turkish Water Institute must also be obliged to produce information in parallel with international contracts and organisations, to ensure that this information is most widely circulated, to inform the public and the community, to stand up to the wrong policies of government and relevant public institutions. Again, as mentioned, the chemical waste of many factories is directed towards the streams, especially in some factories. The measures related to this must be initiated immediately. Once again, we are curious about Turkey's policies to reduce carbon emissions, given Turkey's responsibility for signing COP21. The Court's Control Report for 2014 has determined that legislation is not followed in the modeling of underground water in the Ceylannar region and the drafting of the management plan. We'd like to know if there's been a transaction on the responsibility of the administration. Is there any mission and study of Turkey's water legislation, which is still in the EU negotiating process, in order to regulate it according to the EU's Water Framework Direction? We'd like to make this public in a way. We want information on the work conducted by the Ministry to prevent unconscious consumption of water resources. How many HES are currently open throughout Turkey? We want real statistics on the fact that HES and dams, which are already operational, provide enough energy, not lack of energy in the country, but more. Will your ministry have a new understanding of ecological balance and a new environment that put human life at the center of human life, instead of the massive damage done to its habitats, dams, mines, and other areas so far? That's what we're worried about. And I'll make a quick point. While we were in the region, such as this, there was always a debate in Ankara. I'm actually ashamed to call myself a two-profession, or a trial, both because I didn't walk on the sidewalk. When we and our friends were walking on the road protesting the dismissal of our co-chairs, they warned us, walking the MPs, walking the sidewalk. I wonder what crime they committed, what corruption, what theft they committed? There's no such thing as a shoebox, no money-counting machine in our house. Why don't you walk on the sidewalk? And one of them -- I can give it to all of you -- I said to the cops, "We don't want you to die either. We're here for you too. They're here too. Therefore, the immunity of legislation against us is requested. I'm proud of them. Every time, whether it's the police, the young, the children, whoever it is, we'll always do our democratic actions so that he doesn't die; we'll walk on the sidewalks when it comes to it, on the streets, on the streets. But for those of you who have prepared it and those who have provided the ground for it, these headshots will be a great embarrassment. I'll frame these and hang them in my room. I'll expect you all for tea. These are the honorable documents for me and our friends. I'd like to tell the governor of Batman here that both our Figen Yüksekdağ Co-Chair and Selahattin Demirtaş have cancelled our co-Chair's meeting, and they didn't want to allow it. We've applied to stop the execution, and the motion to stop the execution has been denied. But thanks to you, the Batman people have stopped running with 50,000 people. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) The Governor of Batman has been the last province in Turkey in last year's exams, instead of deciding where the MP is going to walk, instead of gasing us with the police, he's been the second from the end of the exam -- so he's taken precautions on this, he's strengthened education, he's deposed teachers who want peace, he's deposed the educators, he's started investigations on them. Again, last year, Batman was number 2 in terms of unemployment in 81 provinces. Mr. Mehmet Simsek is Batman, who is also the Minister of Finance and Minister of Economics and is now Minister of State. Instead of ignoring people's demands and suppressing them, please do something for Batman; let us see your solutions for unemployment; for education, appoint teachers instead of teachers. In the same way, many teachers and officers who have been removed from duty in Mardin and many parts of Turkey say they have become members of a terrorist organization because they condemn the explosion of Ankara because they want peace. I mean, it's a shame, it's a shame. We left February 28th behind last week. On February 28th, the teacher's friends walking for their headscarf, their friends being punished at universities, are now judging and firing this government. This really isn't the government. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Just as February 28th is being questioned, one of these days they'll be accounted for.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0304par0127	You can't compare terror to February 28th, you can't compare them, they're very different.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0305par0128	You ask, you ask!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0302par0129	God will ask even if we don't ask. We believe in God, we trust in him, but not in the word, the essence.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0305par0131	God knows who to ask.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0306par0132	Thank you, Mr. Lion. Thus, the talks of the People's Democratic Party Group are completed. Now it's time for the Justice and Development Party Group. Each speaker speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group is limited to five minutes. The first word belongs to the Eskişehir MP Harun Karacan. Here you go, Mr. Karacan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0307par0140	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Customs and Trade. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Our Ministry of Customs and Trade has made a great contribution to our business and artist, to our traders, to the co-ops, to the customs practices, to the young entrepreneurs, to the producers and to the consumers. There are 56,000 cooperatives in our country that operate in each sector and share more than 7 million of our citizens. The Co-operative Information System Project has been launched with electronic applications to facilitate the operations of co-operatives. Anonymity, limited companies and cooperatives have also been short-lived in order for the real state of our trade life to be revealed. The MERSIS Project was launched under the 238 Trade Register Office to ensure that business records and business registration transactions can be carried out electronically, in a certain standard and modern way. Anonymous corporate partners were allowed to participate in the General Assembly electronically. The state registration system has been established to monitor and register the trade of vegetables and fruit. The licensed storage, a new system of marketing of products, has begun to be implemented in our various provinces. There is also a new system of licensed storage. Half of the rent paid by our citizens for licensed warehouses is paid by the government. In licensed storage, electronic products are also applied. Our prime minister, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, has also given the goods markets have long been waiting for news that the stock market will be established within a few months. It is also clear that this new structure, which will include the Chambers and Stock Exchange Association of Turkey and trade markets, will now make markets more active. Many innovations have been introduced to our tradesmen and tradesmen regarding the Order of Retail 6585, and this law was adopted last year. One of them is the 5 per cent of the total sales area to be reserved for tradesmen and artists at shopping malls for rent on the rail price. The other will be reserved at the shopping malls for at least three percent of the total sales area to be given to our traditional, disappearing tradeskeeper. Mr. President, the balance of loans from the People's Bank to the valued lawmakers and artists has reached 16.5 billion as of January 2016. During 2002-2015, about 1,220,000 tradesmen and artists used $50 billion in loans. Under the leadership of our Prime Minister, two new possibilities have been brought, unlike the previous years, when the Council of Ministers decided that the loans and bail co-ops were credited by the tradesmen and artists. First, our tradesmen and artists will be able to use up to 30,000 euros of interest-free loans for the purchases of machinery, equipment, ironworks, business modernisations. Second, young entrepreneurs who have completed the COSGEB Enterprises Support Programme and have not reached the age of 30 in the application date will be able to use interest-free loans up to 100,000 TL. So far, 5,060 people have used $146 million in loans. As part of COSGEB supports, 9.206 of our tradesmen, as of the end of 2015, have also benefited from 86.5 million in support. Mr. President, in light of the improvements made by the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the tradesmen, the merchants, consumers, cooperatives, young entrepreneurs, our people continue to practice for the better, and will continue after that. This is the people's stand, and we're here for our nation. As I put an end to my words, I wish our country the best of the 2016 budget. On behalf of our AK PARTY group, I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0308par0152	Thank you, Mr. Karacan. Now, the second word on behalf of the group belongs to Iconian MP Ziya Altunyaldız. Here you go, Mr. Altunyald.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0309par0156	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute and honor our General Assembly and our beloved nation. Dear friends, there is a very important relationship between global trade and the economic position of countries, power, wealth and prosperity. When we look at the G20 countries in particular, we see that the G20 countries have established 85 per cent of the global product, and yet 80 per cent of global trade is being carried out by G20 countries. Moreover, in the 1960s in particular, the global trade has come to about 25 per cent when it was 9 to 10 per cent in total global revenues. So there is a direct relationship between the wealth and prosperity of countries and global trade. On one hand, our country has an obligation to become a country of commerce -- production with knowledge and skill, with its depth -- and in this case, in the time of the EC PARTY governments, it has led us to two things, especially in our trade-oriented parameters. One is speed, the other is security. Yes, there are very different actors in a trade. You have to be competitive in the global arena, you have to give him all the support to become a global actor, but on the other hand, you have to protect the manufacturers inside, protect the health and safety of consumers, and also open the way for producers. Here we have to balance two things: speed and balance. In the work of the AK PARTY governments, these two elements have come forward and we've walked on them. Dear friends, if you can't manage all the processes in a trade, you can't manage the trade unless you can get from the production tape to the final consumer. Trade is a chain of supply management. You have to manage all the elements in the supply chain correctly, integrate, build a system and run a system. You have to integrate IT systems and management systems. So, you have to manage the whole process, not the moment, but the whole picture. During the time of the EC PARTY governments, we brought together a sustainable, traceable and predictable trade life with our nation and achieved significant success in the global trade of a competitive economy. In this scope, we have integrated the system specifically with IT systems into 100 per cent electronic customs applications. Now the merchant is able to conduct his entire trade from his office, instead of going through customs. On the other hand, you'll have to pre-receive the red line, the items you're going to get, the stuff you're going to get, the stuff you're going to get, the stuff you're going to get, on the basis of the risk management-based work, especially if you're going to set up a system of information related to the object and all the information related to the carrier, in the way that you're going to get from China. Again, on the other hand, dear friends -- a paradigm change in trade life, a memorizing practice -- we have now implemented the customs implementation of a trading expert from a working life, from a customs routine, from a working rhetoric, from a sense of service to the foot of a merchant man, from a sense of purpose, and from a sense of purpose. That's how we got the merchant man to do all his transactions from his office, from his warehouse, from his factory. We've brought customs to your foot, and we've given you the opportunity to take his customs there to the final destination, to the transition. Again, by bringing together the common transit regime with the EU and the EFTA countries, we integrated three buildings, one customs administration, 32 countries, and with one statement, we integrated customs procedures, with an understanding that ensures competitiveness and minimises time. As a result, dear friends -- yes, competitiveness in trade, trust and speed -- are the first in customs procedures to ensure all this integration... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We've increased the volume of the transaction to 64 per cent in the first minute in 30 minutes, and at the same time, our dear friends -- the valued President, finishing -- to 16 digits by reducing the 62th place in 2012 to 46 degrees in 2014. Yes, the trade country and competitiveness... I salute all of you with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0310par0172	Thank you, Mr. Altunyald. Now it belongs to Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar. Here you go, Mr. Nupınar.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0311par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my EC PARTI Group about the budget budget budget for the Central Government's draft budget of the 64th Republic of Turkey, which is rapidly moving towards becoming the world's 10th largest economy, with a bid for $2 trillion per year and $500 billion exports in 2023. I salute the General Assembly. Before we begin my words, as we continue the fight against terror with great sacrifice and determination, I thank our fallen security forces and thank our veterans, and ask for immediate healing for our wounded. On March 3, 1992, we lost 263 mineral martyrs and all of our mine martyrs in the Grizu disaster at the TTK Kozlu House, and I ask Allah's mercy and patience for all of his relatives. Investments continue quickly in our country, which is on the way to becoming the world's 10th largest economy. Our Zonguldak was also invested with 6.5 quadrillion dollars during our administration, and will continue to be made. The 160th article of the Constitution has imposed on the state the responsibility and responsibility to take and develop measures that ensure healthy and regular functioning of money, credit, capital, goods and services markets, to prevent monopolisation and cartelisation in markets due to actual or agreement. So, based on this constitutional basis, the establishment of competitive market order based on economic activity, with its protection and development, the Law on the Protection of Competition 4054, which will primarily serve to increase consumer well-being and social well-being, has been implemented on 13/12/94. As of 5/11/97, the Competitive Association, which has completed its organisation under this law, has officially begun its activities. The Competitiveness Agency was established to observe and carry out its duties in the free and healthy competition of the markets of goods and services, according to Article 4054. In this framework, he made decisions by conducting investigations, research, investigations, and carried out punishments envisioned in the law in the case of the necessary cases, based on applications that have been sent to him from his establishment to this day, or on self-instruction. There have been significant developments in our country's economy in recent years. As a matter of fact, in the early years of the Competition Foundation, in 1998, our country, which had about $270 billion in economic size, has largely completed the process of liberalisation in its economic structure and has become one of the world's leading economies. The role of competing rules of competition is greater in the fact that the national economy works better with all institutions and rules of the more competitive, more open and free market economy to the outside world. The Competitiveness Agency, which is trying to eliminate artificial interference outside the market mechanism in the economy, continues to work successfully in this direction. During our government's time, important steps have been taken, especially to protect consumer rights and prevent monopoly. It is clear that at the point of the functioning of the free market economy, many countries around the world have carried out control mechanisms through regulatory and regulatory institutions with administrative and financial autonomy. As it is known, the rules of competition are mainly based on preventing cartels and other competitive restrictions considered to be the most competitive violations, preventing the abuse of these sovereign enterprises, and controlling the condensation processes that result in the constraint of competition in the markets. After a study of the 19-year period of activity, the Competitiveness Agency and the institution's decision-making body have found that the Competition Board has concluded 236 investigations and, as a result of these investigations, have fined the companies of enterprises and initiatives about 2.5 billion euros in fines. The first four main sector groups that have been investigated most in these 19 years are transport, food, agriculture, food-drinking, construction materials and medicines, health care and products, respectively. In particular, during the 19-year period of activity, the Competitive Association has signed under major decisions and practices that remove the obstacles to competition in the markets, which provide economic benefits for consumers. The Competition Association has successfully represented our country on various platforms at this time as an exemplary international community. On the other hand, the establishment of competitive authorities in the surrounding countries and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...has also taken important roles in developing their capacities. I hereby salute the General Assembly. I wish the budget would bring blessings to our country, to our nation.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0312par0191	Thank you, Mr. Nupınar. Now it belongs to Zonguldak MP Faruk Çaturoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Chaturoglu.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0313par0195	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, your honor is ready; I salute your delegation and our great nation with love and respect. Before I begin, I am grateful, mercifully and grateful to 263 of our miners, who were killed in the flu explosion, one of Turkey's greatest mining disasters, on 3 March 1992 at the Zonguldak Taşkomuru Foundation Kozlu House. Dear friends, energy is the most risky area for all countries, and its governance is risky because energy is the only issue where the nations of the world depend on one another. For our country's development, it needs economic growth, production growth to grow, and more energy and raw materials to increase production. Hence, the increase in energy and raw materials imports is naturally increasing the foreign trade deficit and the current deficit. This conclusion clearly shows how important we should be to our local resources. We don't have extraordinary reserves of oil and ore, and we don't have a remarkable amount of capital because we don't have a colonial background. We have to work hard to get up and assess the resources we have underground and above ground. However, in this regard, dear friends, both internal and external environments are trying to block our country at the point of extracting our energy and ore. They say no to nuclear energy, hydropower plants, thermal power plants, under the name of environmental protection, which I leave out of it, sincere environmentalists.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0314par0200	How can it be intimate, not intimate?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0313par0201	Let's go to renewable energy sources. They say, "Let's not have wind and geothermal energy in our province." They're leaving the sun's energy behind us. Dear friends, it's impossible for us to meet Turkey's energy needs if we've equipped Turkey all the way across with solar panels. Then, excuse me, dear friends, where is this government, where is this state when the electricity goes out for five minutes? You will not say, "Where is this state?" You will manage with a lamp of gas and a candle. Turkey will never, never compete in the international arena without having nuclear energy to control the cost control of the production of experimental goods that require intensive energy consumption. Only the Akkuyu plant will bring Turkey's current deficit down around $3 billion, dear friends. France, which we admire very much, provides 77% of its energy with nuclear power. On the other hand, Germany also provides 37 per cent of its energy with coal-based ore. We've got a long way to go with this. Despite all obstacles, we will continue to maintain energy efficiency and energy diversity by prioritizing energy renewables and domestic resources. Our local resources, including lignite and stone coal, will be supported. It is planned by the Ministry to provide additional support for plants using local coals in energy production. The First and Second World Wars, dear friends, came out of oil. Today, the wars that continue in Syria and Iraq are not a simple war, but a source of energy. What are the United States and Russia doing in the region? PKK, NYD, ISIS and other terrorist organizations are just pawns in this energy war, and when their time is over, they will be thrown aside like a used tissue. In my personal opinion, I do not accept Sykes Picot, nor any new sharing in this region. We have to evaluate the game from Turkey's perspective. What else do the environments that do not want Turkey to develop say? Don't take out your gold, silver, copper ore, it makes pollution, they say. But we're determined, we're going to cover the ground, and we're going to take out whatever's underneath it and evaluate it, dear friends. And while we're doing all this, we're not going to think about what the West will say or what the world will say, we're going to think about what our nation would say, dear friends. Who's clapping?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0315par0209	Bravo, Chaturoglu!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0316par0210	Bravo!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0313par0211	The children of Anatolia, Thrace, Mesopotamia, this geography... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we didn't have anyone run over, we won't have them run over. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] On this occasion, I wish you all the love and respect that our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and other ministries, the budgets of 2016 are a source of good service.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0317par0217	Bravo, Chaturoglu!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0318par0218	The Minister didn't listen! He had a conversation.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0319par0219	It's not fair to the other ministers, but also to the other ministers.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0320par0220	Thank you. We welcome Mr. Chaturoglu to his place. It is now time for the deputy of Kahramanmarash Mehmet Uður Dilpak. Here you go, Mr. Dilipak.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0321par0224	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in 2016. I salute your high council, and before I begin my words, I bless our martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for their homeland. Dear friends, during our 13-year AK PARTY rule, we have made huge investments in energy as well as in any field. In short, we've increased our power to a total of 31,846 megawatts in 2002 to 73,427 megawatts by the end of January 2016. In the natural gas industry, in 2002, we had five cities with natural gas, and now in our 77 counties and many counties, hundreds of counties have natural gas. As we look at oil-seeking investments, the investment in 2002 was $35 million, while the investment in 2015 was $424 million. Our mining exports were at 700 million dollars in 2002, while they are now at the level of $3 billion 900 million. We're gonna get all of this out, guys. We have to do this to improve our country. On the other hand, with our ministry's international, reformative projects -- like the TANAP project is one of them, Baku-Ceyhan Pipeline is one of them -- we're doing everything we can to make our country an energy bridge, and we're going to keep doing it. Dear friends, we need to increase the diversity of energy for our country's tomorrows. When we say, "Let's build nuclear power plants for this," they say, "Let's do it," but when we say, "Res, let's do it," they say, "Let's do it." We say to these friends, "Keep living in the time of your grandfathers. Friends, it must be well known that from yesterday to today, the main source of all the struggles in the world is the battle of control of energy and of natural resources. That is the main cause of instability in the Middle East and in our region. The struggle to share oil and other natural resources took place a century ago, when Sykes-Picot and some deals ended with a hundred years of valid provisions, the alliances of evil began to press the button again. In the new construction of the region, external forces have set up a scenario, and the PYD, PKK, ISIS and others have begun volunteer subcontractorships. Looking at the area, we've seen two civilizations fight for hundreds of years. One is worth more than one drop of oil, one drop of blood, which finds meaning in Churchill's expression. The other is the mindset of one drop of innocent human blood, which is more valuable than the view of the Prophet of Islam, who says, "The world and its contents are worth more." So there is no meaning or expression for these imperial forces in Syria today for the loss of 400,000 people. If you look at the matter from that point of view, the problem will be solved on its own. Dear friends, in this country, we are an indivisible piece, such as Turk, Laz, Kurd, Çerkek, and Sunni, and Alevi, flesh and nails. This geography is our common destiny. We were willing to drink hemlock poison in what you call the process of national unity and brotherhood, but someone constantly undermined the process, and the situation is obvious. Those who undermine this process in the name of external forces, those who try to create an energy corridor in the name of external forces, will not be able to escape the burden of every innocent soul and death of our martyrs. We'll give the imperialists in our region the best response to poor subcontractors working to create an energy corridor, our government, our nation. You will see that these efforts are futile. You'll find that your so-called self-government efforts are a game of these imperialists, a part of it. Those who rob the imperialist subcontractors of the region will be condemned in front of history and in the conscience of our nation. I salute the General Assembly, end my words.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0322par0238	Thank you, Mr. Dilipak. Now it's time to say that it belongs to Zeki Aygün. Mr. Ayday, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0323par0243	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group for the energy market regulatory foundation budget of 2016. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the Energy Market Editing Agency has organised and supervised electricity, natural gas, oil and LPG markets for 15 years from its establishment in 2001. In this direction, the removal of obstacles to the creation of a transparent, fair and competitive market structure in markets with the responsibility of regulation, monitoring and auditing is one of the institution's main priorities for consumers to benefit from adequate, continuous, quality goods and services. From the day the EPDK was founded, the EPDK has spent a busy shift on the development of markets under its responsibility to pave the way for the development of energy markets. In this context, the current oil market has a total of 13,608 licenses, 1,948 in the electric market, 308 in the gas market and 10,914 in the LPG market. With licensed activities, market participants have been registered and licensed companies have been taken into custody. Given supply security in the electricity sector, the EPDK has been incorporated into the new system of capacity of around 34,676 megawatts in the last decade, with projects licensed by the EPDK. In this capacity increase, the share of renewable energy sources such as hydroelectricity, wind, geothermal, sun is a satisfactory development. However, standards for service quality in the sector have been implemented and investments continue to improve the quality of goods and services in the sector through the legislation put into effect, which separates the privatisation of the electricity distribution and retail sales activities that follow. As part of a state-owned market model, significant steps have been made towards the establishment of competitive production and supply operating competition of the operating electrical sector. As part of EPDK licensing activities, the gas market has so far given a total of 308 licenses, including 69 decent distribution licenses. The focus of studies on the gas market is activities aimed at distribution of natural gas in cities. In 2002, the natural gas transport line to five cities in the industry and dwellings, only in the industry, reached 77 cities due to gas distribution tenders at the end of 2015 and the expansion of the BOTAS transmission line. In addition, over 328 have natural gas been used in our district. The standards for products in fuel and LPG products have been increased and are implemented through technical regulations put into effect in oil and LPG markets. As part of the Oil Market Act, it is intended to prevent illegal and unstandard sale of goods by identifying whether the fuel in circulation with national marker applications has been legal access to the market. However, the oil market is constantly supervised by the EPDK, the distributor license holders, in order to prevent an off-the-book sale of fuel with the station automation system. In this way, citizens were allowed to use high-quality fuel and LPGs to prevent illegal fuel from damaging our country's economy. As the EPDK continues its work rapidly, it will continue to work for the development of markets with the same dedication after today, allowing consumers to benefit from continuous and quality services. I wish our budget of 2016 was a blessing, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0324par0256	Thank you, Mr. Aygun. The seventh statement belongs to Kütahya MP Ahmet Tan. Mr. Tan, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0325par0260	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the budget of the National Bor Research Institute, which is part of the 2016 Central Management Budget Bill. I salute your high council. 72% of the world's 3 billion tonnes of boron reserves are in our country, and the zinc beds are in the centipede, and the colemanite beds are in the Emet, the Citadel and the Bigadic. For research and technology development of the Bor mine, the National Bor Research Institute was established in 2003 with Law 4865 and has been operating since 2004. In this case, 229 projects supported by BOREN from 2004 to 15 were completed, 179 were completed. The development of Bor and its derivatives has established six competencies. However, studies are being carried out at our institution's RD center on the enrichment of boron isotopes and forward metal alloys, which contribute to the international co-operation model and the boron-integrated co-operation model. In light of the positive project results supported by BOREN, the production of boronian armor has been successfully completed. It is intended to share information on investments with industrialists, including cement, health, building materials, and ceramics, in the wood empire sector, which resists radiation. In addition, the production of boron-based hydrogen production systems and fuel batteries in TÜBITAK co-operation has been fully domesticated and implemented in drones. In addition, activities related to the establishment of the boron-organized industrial zone continue. Precious lawmakers, our Kütahya, the centre of the boron mine in our country, have received a great deal of infrastructure during the AK PARTI period, with their divided roads, airports, hospitals and schools, dams and ponds, organised industrial areas, public institutions and corporations' service buildings, and their villages. I thank those who labor for the development of our province and all of our MPs in your presence, as well as those whose services we know very well, Ahmet Dere and Halil İbrahim Yilmaz, who have received Rahmetirahman, who remember my brothers in good faith, and I pray for God's mercy. We know what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, to send us here as members of the Kütahian community, as members of the 4 AK PARTY, take off their overalls. We, too, will work day and night to bring together new investments in unity and service to our beautiful country, the city of knowledge and wisdom of the state and its people. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are our goal, along with our country's boron reserves, to uncover all its mines and operate them efficiently. From the year we took office in 2002, we took steps to ensure economic and political stability every semester, and we continue to do so. The most important obstacle to our economy, our democracy and our nation is terrorism, and it is those who support terrorism. The pits, the barricades, the games of the pits, they've fallen under the barricades, they've fallen into the pits they've dug. As members of the Anatolian civilization that lives in this land and has an ancient civilization and culture, one by one by one by one by one by God, a prophet by one by one, a prayer by one, a country by one by one, a flag by one, a state by one by one, we will stand firm in the face of those who want to cast seeds of hypocrisy among us. The AK PARTY is the essence of our country, its yeast, its cement. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the budget of 2016 to be good for our country and our nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0326par0270	Thank you, Mr. Tan. In turn, it belongs to Haci Osman Akgül. Mr. Akgül, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0327par0274	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish Atomic Energy Agency's budget for 2016. I salute the High Council. First of all, I am honored to have worked for this institution for three years in the early 1990s. We're going through critical processes in our region and in the world where political and economic changes take place. We witness the formation of new dynamics in the field of energy and significant developments. Turkey strives to become a powerful player in the energy sector, both in its own development and sustainable development, as well as in a region of significant energy conflicts. This includes global developments in the energy sector, as well as the maximum use of our domestic and renewable energy resources, as well as nuclear energy taking its place in energy supply security. This is of great importance in terms of dependence on imported resources and reducing risks in supply security. In accordance with Law 2690, Turkey's Atomic Energy Institution was established to establish and propose basic principles, technical and administrative studies, organise, support, co-ordinate, and oversee atomic energy in Turkey, in accordance with its development plans. Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency, which continues its work as a reliable and efficient institution to ensure the protection of human and environment from radiation, has taken on two main roles as part of ensuring the peaceful use of nuclear energy. One is to provide nuclear and radiation security during nuclear energy activities and radiation practices, conduct necessary regulation and control activities, and the other is to lead research, development studies on nuclear energy use and radiation applications. With this consciousness, Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency continues its careful work to ensure that the nuclear plants in our country, as regulators and controllers in the field of nuclear security and radiation, are safely established and operated according to international standards. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we're going to reach our goals of 2023 with decisive steps in energy, a country that can supply the energy needed by economic development and social development at constant, safe and minimal cost, increasing the diversity of resources and technology in energy production, providing our energy supply security. With the goals set by the EC PARTY, we can reach 2023 Turkey with a strong energy potential. In this context, from 2002 to today, we have also done important work in the field of nuclear energy, as in other areas of energy. In this context, we predict the maximum assessment of our domestic and renewable energy resources and the use of nuclear technology in the production of electricity. The AK PARTI government has launched two nuclear power plants in Akkuyu, 4,800 megawatts and 4.480 megawatts in Sinop. In addition to these two plants, the work will be completed shortly for the construction of the third plant. Again, in 2012, it launched proton accelerator facilities, which were the first in our country in the field of nuclear and atomic energy. This facility plays a key brain in the field of nuclear energy, while serving our people through the study of nuclear medicine. With the work that's done here, we're going to bring in people who have more power in the field of nuclear and atomic energy, experts in the field, into our country. On this occasion, Turkey wishes the Atomic Energy Foundation's 2016 budget to be a source of good work, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0328par0283	Thank you, Mr. Akgül. In order to speak, Kütahya MP Mustafa Şükrü belongs to Nazlı. Mr. Nazli, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0329par0287	Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of the AK PARTY Group based on the 2010 budget of the Mining Study and Search Directorate. I salute you all. We all know the importance of natural resources in human and social life. Ninety-nine percent of the tools and equipment that make life functional are provided from natural resources and mines, particularly. The development of countries is related to the activation of natural resources. Mining is a very important element for countries to contribute to development, development, industrialisation and capture of developing technology as an industry based on production and also the driving force of production. Mining products are the basis of all major investment sites. Mining, foreign currency, creating jobs, promoting services and side industries, especially regional development. The countries that understand the essential importance of mining resources in society are working hard to make the best use of the resources they have and to expose natural resources. In most developed industrial countries, mining has been a leading industry that has begun economic development. Advanced countries owe their development to their most efficient and efficient assessment of the raw materials they have. Mining in Anatolia has been going on for thousands of years, but technically and scientifically, mining began with the establishment of our MTA General Directorate in 1935. Despite the complex geological structure of our country, the MTA is an institution that has done a great deal of service to the value of technological and economic mining. Our country is ranked 28th among the 132 countries mentioned in mining, and is ranked 10th as the number of mines produced. Our country, which owns a thousandth of the world's metallic materials, 2.5 per cent of its industrial raw materials reserves, has a share of the world's mineral reserves of about 5 per thousand. Turkey has to allocate 35-40 billion dollars per year from its budget for mining and metal imports. However, given our mining potential, we can produce most of the mines and metals imported from our local resources. 73% of our imports are imports of interim goods. As industrial production increases, our interim imports will increase even more; for the solution, we need to go to radical changes in terms of management in the mining sector: taking measures that will open the way for large investments and provide capital access to the geology engineers in our country, and at the same time, bringing more economic support to the country's economy as quickly as our minerals and ore are buried underground. As an EC PARTY, in line with our 2023 goals, we need to follow policies that will allow large investments to be made in this area by encouraging the country's economy to produce our own automobile, our tank, our plane, and our white goods. The MTA budget took place at $3353m in 2015; 195 million -- personal -- costs -- and 155 million euros were spent on the construction of marine geology research ships, mining and geothermal searches, geological and geophysics scientific and technological expenditures. In 2016, the MTA budget was planned for $442m. Finally, as one of the first states in our country to be called mines, as a member of the Kütahya, according to MTA data, we have a separate responsibility to be in a province that has 36 different types of mines in its geography, sacrificed, sweated, and worked these mines with their lives. 60 per cent of the coal mines, 50 per cent of the magnetism, 20 per cent of the lignite reserves are still in Kütahya. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On this occasion, I thank our Prime Minister, our Government, our Minister of Energy, and our MTA General Directorate for the service they've done to both our country and the Kütahya, asking that our budget be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0330par0298	Thank you, Mr. Nazli. Now it's time for Elazig MP Dragon's Open. Here you go, Mr. Open Door.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0331par0302	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs in 2016. I'm not going to talk about two-digit inflations, high interest rates, overnight repo interest expressed in thousands, debt to the IMF, how the economy is fragile at a time in the smallest cases, or how the economy is suddenly built, or how it's sunk banks. I will not talk about the possibility of individual application to the Constitutional Court, our stand for military custody, democratisation efforts, the removal of state security courts and special authority courts, the efforts for our national unity and brotherhood, the constraint of party closures, and judicial reforms. I'm not going to mention that we're a model country in humanitarian aid, that we're hosting close to 3 million guests, that we're among the fastest-growing countries in the world in thirteen years, that our per capita income is raised to over $10,000, and that the non-profit is raised from $230 billion to $850 billion. I won't mention that Turkey's economy has increased resistance to internal and external shocks, and we have reached a Turkey that has repaid its debt to the IMF. Since interest is reduced to one-digit figures, I won't mention our zealous efforts to ensure that our nation's rights are not fed to the interest lobby. The double routes increased from 6,000 kilometers to 24,000 kilometers will not mention the fact that the airports, which were 26 in 2002, were raised to 55 put in 2015 and that the airway was made the way for the people, and that there were only 42,000 passengers in my province, Elazığ, 2002, which reached 915,000 people in 2015, and I will share some of the works of our Ministry of Forest and Water.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0332par0309	Mr. Dragon, I'm glad you didn't mention it. You just repeated it all!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0331par0310	The investments made by the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs over the past 13 years have found 123 billion Turkish liras. These numbers are unimaginably hard to believe before 2002. With the project of a century in which a dream has been turned into reality and finished, the Northern Turkish Cypriot Republic's Su Temin Project will be transmitted to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus by a suspended 75m cubic metres of water annually through the suspended sea crossing system, which has the ability to be the first and only one in the world. This is where I would like to express that 1,001 projects were carried out as ponds under the 1st GEL-SU Thousand Days Project and that 1,071 more ponds would be built in addition to 2019. We know that the world is threatened by desertification, drought and land destruction, and we continue to work in that direction. We reduce the amount of soil carried by erosion; this amount, which was 226 million tons in 2000, was reduced to 168 million tonnes annually in 2015, and the 2019 target was set at 140 million tonnes, and the 2023 target was set at 130 million tons/years. In 13 years, we had about 3.5 billion saplings met with the soil, while 49.5 million trees met with the soil as a hand. So far, some 1,262,000 hectares of land conservation in Turkey have been carried out by our government's work. Our ability to save water has reached 157 billion cubic metres, using 44 billion cubic metres of water, drinking water, and industrial water. With this irrigation, our ministry has raised our country to the seventh position in agriculture in the world. In this sense, it's not a word, it's the name of a will that produces work. It's an AK PARTY. I wish you the best of our budget, and I salute our great coven.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0333par0317	Thank you, Mr. Open Door. In turn, it belongs to Uður Aydemir. Mr. Aydemir, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0334par0321	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs in 2016. I hereby salute your high council and our great nation. At the very beginning of my words, I pray to God and to all our martyrs, and to all our martyrs, and to our nation, who support both terrorists and terrorists, that I curse once again. Congressmans, thanks to the realistic policies of our AK PARTI authorities, our ministry of Forest and Water Affairs has done things that have not been done throughout the history of the republic in the past 13 years, thanks to our growing budget opportunities. During our rule, we had three billion and five thousand plants meet the land, including 63.5 million in our Manisa. Hopefully, by 2019, we'll have a billion more saplings in Manisa, 87 million. While forest areas in the world have been reduced, our country has been greatly increased. We not only increase the forest areas, but we fight the forest fires professionally to make our seeds grow into saplings, plants into trees, and preserve our existing forest existence. Thanks to this admirable struggle, our country has risen to the most successful country in the fight against forest fires in Europe. Our ministry, which has sworn to protect nature, has increased the number of national parks to 40. One of them is found in Mount Spil, in our Manisa. In Mount Spil, the forest mansions were named after 41 kinds of spices used to make mesir paste. In order to reach Spil Mountain in an easier way and to meet more naturalists with this immense nature, the cable car and two hotels were also delivered, and hopefully, it will be done soon enough to serve our local and foreign tourists. Mr. President, if there is water, there is life. We are doing great work to ensure that no drop of water is wasted, that the Muslim land meets water. We work for our people. In the past, a 30 - metre - tall pond was completed for 44 million liras in twenty-two years, except for its watering. Now a pond of the same quality is only made for $4.5 million in 18 months, including watering. That's the obvious example of using even $1 of our budget in the most efficient way and not wasting it. There were only 461 ponds in fifty-seven years from 1954 to the end of 2011, when State Waterworks was established. Between 2012 and 2014 alone, we built 1,001 ponds under the name "The Thousand Pond Project" in the thousand Days. Hopefully, by 2019, we'll complete the 1,071 pond.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0335par0326	You're talking about how many Kebans have been made. How many Ataturk dams have you done? Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0334par0327	At the same time, the world's third highest dam, the Yusufeli Dam, continues to work, while the Cypriot Water Temin Project, the project of the century, meets our young country with water. On the one hand, in Africa, we open wells in our heart geography, while we continue to build irrigation canals so that our farmers can get their sweats back. Dear lawmakers, I regret to inform you that in our agricultural city of Manisa, from 1982 to 2003, neither a dam nor a pond nor one irrigation plant was built, unfortunately we couldn't do it. The budget may not have been available, but in the years of the EC, we only brought $1 billion into our Manisa. From here, Mr. Secretary, we thank our government very much for all the good work they've done. I wish you all the best for our budgets in 2016, for our government, for our nation and for our country.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0336par0331	Thank you, Mr. Aydemir. The order belongs to Antalya MP İbrahim Aydın. Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0337par0335	Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY group, which is a 177-year-old organization, which I have worked and served for thirty years, and which I am honored to be a member of. I hereby salute our great coven and our beloved nation. Protecting the mission, forest and forest resources from all kinds of dangers, developing them with a close understanding of nature, managing them in the ecosystem and in a way that provides sustainable benefits to society, maintaining, developing, and sustaining the services of the forest under the powers that the Constitution and the law have given it. As of 1963, our country began its planned forestry in 1972, in a ten-year period. According to the first inventory figures, our forest presence, 20.2 million hectares, reached 22.3 million hectares in 2015. Our forest areas have increased by 2.1 million hectares. In the last thirteen years, we have increased our forests by 1,500,000 hectares. At the same time, our wealth rose from 936 million cubic metres to 1.6 billion cubic metres. So as the world's forests are low, they have increased both in space and in wealth in our country. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been conducting a series of forestry activities, such as foresting, fighting erosion, improving corrupt forest areas, for the development and expansion of forests. There have been 2 million 429,000 hectares of rehabilitation and reforestation under the National Forestification and Erosion Control Expedition -- 2008 and 2012 -- as well as 2 million 429 hectares. This area is the size of Thrace and is close to the area of Belgium. As part of the planting work, the plan for walnuts, almonds, berries was also planned, the Roadside Planting Action Plan, the Rehab of Minefields Action Plan was put into practice. As part of the efforts to preserve the land, rehabilitate the basins and combat erosion, preparations for the Erosion Action Plan, the Upper Basin Flood Control Action Plan, the Dam Basins Green Belt Planting Action Plan have been put into effect. In order to feed the country's economies and forest villagers where they were born, to prevent migrations, to provide material resources, the Truffle Forest Action Plan, the Salep Action Plan, the Gum Action Plan, the Honey Forest Action Plan -- we have 249 honey forests -- the Wild Fruits Action Plan, the Wild Olive Plan, the Goat Action Plan, the Goat Boy Action Plan, and the Kestane Action Plan. In recent years, we have also been able to raise our forest peasant and make the most of our efforts to make a living, not as enemies, but as relatives. Again, we have established various places of employment, urban forests, which provide for the needs of the community, entertainment and sports, and the needs of the public for the day. So far, 130 city forests have been established, 1,444 meseres. Mr. President, we set out in 1939 to finish the forest cadastro in five years, but until 2005, the forest cadastro worked separately, the deed cadastro worked separately, there were a lot of legal problems, there were cases all over our country, and when our people went to the courts, unfortunately, because the state side was always being held, the job was, frankly, a lot of persecution for our people, the forest villagers and the woods, but after 2005, they disappeared because two kadastros worked together. Our work as the Fire Management System, Turkey has actually made a major attack in recent years, with its local and national engineers, while I, in my early years as chief, was putting out fires with a rake, with a hammer, with helicopters, planes, and in the watchtower in 15 seconds, we were able to catch fire in 15 minutes, and we had very successful work on that. In particular in Mediterranean countries, between 2004 and 14 years, in Portugal, there were 150,000 hectares, 50,000 hectares in Greece, 78,000 hectares in Italy, while in our country there were only 8,800 hectares. I thank my friends, colleagues, and all who have contributed to this work, from the towerer to the worker on the ground, from here to here, from the dozer operator on the land, to the helicopter pilot, and from here I thank all of them separately, and to our recently martyred armed forces and police officers, especially 112 martyrs in forest fires, and to all of you, I ask God's mercy.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0338par0346	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Now, I would like to call Hatay MP Haci Bayram Türkoğlu to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu, it's your turn.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0339par0350	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTI Group on the budget of Forest Directorate of the Financial Year Budget Act 2016, which we are discussing. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. The Forest General Directorate is an important institution of our country's forest resources and sustainable governance responsible for providing resources to the benefit of our nation, with a history of 177 years in the ministry of forest and waterworks. Forests are the most indispensable resource of human beings, with many vital functions from the preservation of the soil and water regime to the balance of the climate. It's our mutual wealth that we have to be the common value of all humanity and leave to future generations. The economic, ecological and social dimensions of forests have been considered in the ecosystem and integrity of ecosystems, has become a fundamental approach to the modern - day understanding of forestry. Mr. President, the valuable MPs today are about 4 billion hectares of the world's forest area. According to the latest annual inventory figures in 2015, our forest area, which was 20.8 million hectares in 2002, reached 22.3 million hectares today, covering 28.4 per cent of the country's territory. In the last 13 years, there have been 1,500,000 hectares of increase. The Forest General Directorate meets about 250-300 million saplings a year. With this increase, our country is among the most important countries in the world to increase forest presence. Our Forest General Directorate has achieved significant achievements in the work of logging, fighting erosion, rehabilitation and forest rehabilitation from 2003-2015, and has conducted nearly 4.4 million hectares in this area. For this reason, from 2003 to today, a total of 3 billion 500 million saplings have met with the soil and have set a record in this field. Our government supports our forest villager and forest co-ops and provides them with an important revenue portal in exchange for forestry activities and direct support. In addition, 5,000 villages were established during the five-year period in the government programme for the development of our forest villagers. On the other hand, as of the end of 2015, the cadastro of 21,850,000 hectares of forest for the protection of forest borders and solving property problems has been completed by 98 per cent. This result is crucial because technical and legal problems have been reduced. There have been serious decreases in cases that have been brought to trial. In combating forest fires, 19,000 Forest General Directorate personnel are employed. Not one square meter of burning areas is used for any other purpose, and within a year it is wooded. The Fire Management System was established to combat forest fires effectively. Our forests are protected 24/7 by 5,091 forest rangers serving in 1,573 containment units. Illegal intervention into the forests is closely monitored through these teams. As a matter of fact, between 1995 and 2002, the average of 38,000 annual forest crime dropped to an average of 17,000 from 2003-2014. The measures taken by our ministry show a reduction in forest crime by up to 70 per cent. National and international legislation also aims to complete the ORBIS, the Forest Information System, by the end of 2016, to establish and improve the existing structure. I wish that our Director General of the Forest in 2016's budget be good for our nation, that I may remember all our saints and martyrs once again, with all due respect, with love, I salute all of you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0340par0358	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Now, let's say it belongs to Halil Eldemir. Here you go, Mr. Eldemir.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0341par0362	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2016 budget of the State Water Affairs General Directorate. I hereby salute you, and in the sight of you, our beloved nation. The State Department of Water Affairs is one of our country's largest investors, one of our nation's largest public enterprises, which has earned our people's appreciation for their investments. A total of 101 billion dollars was invested by State Water Affairs during our administrations. All 25 river basins have been laid out to protect the basin. A total of 3,107 facilities, 320, were offered to our nation's service.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0342par0364	Mr. Secretary, 320 dams don't make a Keban. I sat down, I calculated.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0341par0365	State Water Affairs has invested more than $200m in the province of Bilecik, my own constituency, in the period of our governments. The Kurtköy Dam, which has been expected to be completed for years, has been completed by the Sölöz Dam, the Günyurdur Dam, the Red Dam, the Zeyve Dam and the Yenipazar Dam. The 98 drinking water plants, which have been in operation throughout our country for the past 13 years, have provided drinking water for 41 million people. Until 2040, 2050, even 2071, the need for drinking water was planned and the city without drinking water was not left. With 75 modern drinking water treatment facilities built during this period, the European Union's standards have refined 7.7 million cubic metres of water per day and been offered to our nation's consumption. The world's booming facilities have been completed one by one. To illustrate a few examples: Artvin Deeper Dam, the highest hull dam in Turkey at the height of the body of 249 meters, has now been introduced to the country's economy by serving the largest dam in the Aegean, the Ermenek Dam at the height of 218m, the Ege's dream of China Adnan Medres Dam, the Great Dam of the Aegean, the Akközu Dam. The 100-year dream of Iconia was completed during the time of our government of the Blue Tunnel. Despite the drought, the population of more than 15 million inhabitants of Istanbul was not left thirsty. The Melen Project is linked to the first and only Bosporus Water Tunnel in the world that connects the two continents, and Asia and Europe are interconnected under 300 feet [35 m] of the sea. The Gördes Dam and the Jesus line provided the need for drinking water by 2040. However, I can't remember how many more projects we've completed here because of the shortness of time. Precious lawmakers, the State Waterworks invested $9 billion 233 million 725,277 liras in 2015 and were earmarked 10 billion 908m25,000 liras in the budget for their investments in 2016. Over the course of this year, 130 facilities -- 27 dams, 2 hydropower plants, 52 irrigations, 13 large flood shelters, 29 drinking water, 7 wastewater facilities -- are planned to be opened. Also, by 2019, 10 million acres will be opened to water. During the time of our governments, the State Waterworks wrote epics, and they will continue to write epics. On this occasion, I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary, each and every member of the State Waterworks Agency, who has worked hard for this success. I wish you all the best in the state waterworks budget of 2016.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0343par0377	Thank you, Mr. Eldemir.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0344par0378	Mr. President, I'd like to speak of my position according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0343par0379	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. There's a brief request for words.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0344par0383	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, when I examined yesterday's reports, I received word from the reports that we had received. There was a debate on the solution process here yesterday, while Minister of Interior Efkan Ala (Dolmabahçe) was correct on the persistent questions of the National Movement Party and the Republican People's Party. We have signatures behind everything we've done so far. We find the explanation extremely important, historical, and remarkable. Many of our country's troubles today began with President Erdoğan, who was the head of the process of ending the solution process, refusing the Dolmabahçe agreement. An approach to the Kurdish point that came to the point was similar to what we experienced today. Therefore, until today, we have insisted that Prime Minister Davutoglu's official opinion on Dolmabahçe's agreement and the monitoring committee, but Mr. Prime Minister had not given us any response. Of course, as a minister now in the Cabinet...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0345par0388	Let's complete it, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0344par0389	...Mr. Interior Minister's approach, representing both the government and the Prime Minister -- despite the president's statement -- is a very important approach and explanation. Of course, there's been confusion here, so for a long time, we don't know whether to address AKP's general policy, the statement from Erdoğan and the palace, or the statement from Cabinet and Davutoglu. In this regard, we will be very pleased if both the members of the cabinet and the AKP group's vice presidents clearly reveal their approach to this matter without asylum anywhere. What is the government's position on Turkey's most fundamental problem, and what is the government's next road map, and I ask for an answer to the question of a new policy change in the solution process. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0345par0391	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Altay, do you have a request?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0346par0393	Sir, if you don't mind, Mr. Serkan would like to say a few words.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0345par0394	On behalf of your group, please welcome Mr. Serkan.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0347par0396	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to address the government's authorities: Our Hatay is in the district of Alexanderun, you know, the iron steel factory. It was privatized in 2002. When it was privatized, its 11 per cent stake was given to its workers, its workers. However, before buying and selling, I mean, before entering the stock market, the employee's share was reduced to about 4.93 per cent, as an excuse for the increase of capital, as an excuse for the business expansion. 11,000 workers are now victims, waiting for a solution, and they are waiting for a solution. They still can't buy and sell their shares so far. We're looking for a solution from the government authorities, and we're calling for sensitivity. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0348par0399	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy. 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 I) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014 Now, it's time to speak to Mersin MP Ali Cumhur Taşkın. Mr. Excessive, please.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0349par0446	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of our meteorology General Directorate in 2016. I salute our General Assembly. Before I begin my remarks, I wish God's mercy, condolences and patience to all our martyrs, our nation's heads, Lieutenant Emrah Şahine, Petty Officer Abdil Kadir Çelik, and Specialist Mehmet Karadal, and all our martyrs, who were killed yesterday in the conflict with members of the separatist terrorist organization in Dargezit district of Mardin province. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers serve many sectors, including transport, agriculture, forest, energy, national defences, environment, tourism, health, urbanism, justice, sports and disaster management, with the capacity and expertise to use advanced technology that our country and citizens have, a state-run state-of-the-art organization. The General Directorate of Meteorology operates a network of systems of different types and properties throughout the country to make observations that are the basis for meteorological products and services. In this observation network, there are 1.237 automatic meteorological observation stations, 72 automated airport meteorological observatorys, 78 marine automatic meteorological observatorys, 16 weather radars, two marine radars, 10 high atmosphere monitoring stations, 35 lightning detection and tracking systems. By the end of 2016, the meteorological General Directorate aims to establish 215 automated meteorological observation stations, 4 airport automatic meteorological observatorys, 2 meteorological radars, 6 lightning detection and tracking systems, 1 high atmosphere monitoring systems. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are allowed to learn the air and road information of our citizens and to take the necessary measures from the meteorological General Directorate's website, which is easily accessible by its employees. In addition, meteorological products and services, the most basic factor in the aviation sector and secure air travel, are constantly and reliant on the airports. The Seaways Predictive System contributes to the planning of travel and safety of sea transport. In addition, a total of 362 meteorological warnings have been issued in 2015 on meteorological events, aimed at minimizing the loss of life and property caused by violent meteorological events such as heavy rain, storms, snowfalls, agricultural frosts, duststones. One of the important services the meteorological General Directorate has done is the Meteorological Early Warning System, which has helped identify areas that are at risk of forest fire by collaborating with the Forest General Directorate, which threatens our country's forest existence and the balance of natural life. With this practice, forest fire areas are determined, and the relevant institutions and institutions are stimulated to ensure that the necessary measures can be taken in advance. However, one of the major sectors of service is the agricultural sector. In October, the meteorological General Directorate, which serves our farmers at every stage of agricultural production, such as planting, fertilizer, exterminating, irrigation, and harvest, supports our producers with the agricultural predictive reports, harvest-time forecasting and crop forecasting system developed to ensure that their products are unharmed. Mr. President, I'd like to end my remarks with a sentence from our Department of Natural Protection and National Parks General Directorate, which is doing important work. I wish our country's biological diversity and the protection of wildlife, the detection of protected areas, management and protection, and success in working for our National Parks General Directorate, which operates in order to transfer its work to future generations. I wish you all the best in the year 2016 budget to our meteorological General Directorate and to our country.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0350par0457	Thank you, Mr. Excessive. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the final speaker will be Bolu MP Fehmi Cubic. Mr. Cube, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0351par0461	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, first of all, I salute your delegation and our beloved nation in a manner of conversation. I'm glad our central budget for 2016 brings good to our nation, blessing from my Lord. I made a promise on the Water Institute budget for the Forest and Water Affairs Department on behalf of my group. In 2011, as SUEN, it was founded with the satisfaction of contributing to the solution of global water issues, directing work towards the future of water, implementing our country's sustainable water policies. Dear lawmakers, in our case, water is not just a weapon of white energy, but a definition of civilization through values, as the definition of the global world. Emotion and thought are the name of water in our world, the name of mercy, the name of mercy, the name of the spring that feeds ancient civilization. Two drops of tears are the other name of my heart, my heart, or value. The meeting of land and man with water is the name of a meeting that is prerequisite for bringing water to the city in order to reach Smurf. Be a saint like water to the drinker. It's our definition of civilization. AK PARTY represents our ancient civilization, and the water flows and makes Turkish, alhamdulillah. There are investments in our country that we can call, praise be to God. We opened not only Turkey's highest dams, but the world's largest irrigation facilities. For example, we have opened the Ermenek Dam, which is 218m high; again, the highest dam in our country; the highest dam in the world; the cave in China; the Adnan Menderes Dam; the Dalaman Akkörü, Muratlı, Körkanka, Turkey and the world. Dear lawmakers, 18 percent of Bolu (Bulu)'s geography, which is my constituency, is agricultural land, 64 percent of it is forest. The dams are a 200 thousand-tier area, and, praise be to God, it will be watery agriculture on the AK PARTY cycle. Again, in the past 14 years, river reforms, buildings and facilities, flood protection, Lakecuk, Abant, Yeyöller, drinking water projects, 49 dams and ponds, 6 billion dollars have been invested in our city and will have met with water that is 200,000 per cent. If we just talk about the eight basic dams built during the AK PARTI period, our cook land Mengeneh, with the 330 million-dollar Bridgehead Dam -- which has two HES ponds on it -- you can look back and take me, or you can take me, or I can take you, and I can water the faith in the land of Aksemseddin, our Geynuk, our Gökçaray, Newköy, the Değremens, the Burlanik, the Hasans, the districts; or I will water you, the region, the region, the region, the land of Cyprus. Again, with the Lake of the Alanhimmets, Seben, our town of Bulutova, which is the Bolummets district of Seben, is going to store 40 million cubic metres of water at the size of 7 and water the 30,000 squares of Abant, with Seben Taşlıya to water the lake; again, the Fourdivan and Gerede will have met with water that will water the plains for 270 million dollars, and with water that is the project of Møderes. With my influence, our ancient nation has crowned the water, the saint, the land, the nation, the investment, the energy. In this sense, by the power of our government, by the power of its nation, by all means, the nation's power, against the parallel, the nation's central politics, while continuing its stance, as described by the pilgrims who went to Hijaz yesterday, look, our nation's story, wise man, has been made a water road to the sea, which has not only boasted on behalf of the past, of course, but who believes in the virtue of its merit, but who believes in its wisdom, its wisdom, as well as it did on the road to new Turkey, the story of our nation, the story of the sea, which is made to bring peace from the sea, under the water. I thank our ministry and our government on behalf of our nation, especially our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. I urge our budget to contribute to the unity of our nation, mercy, mercy, and mercy of our nation, to build hopes on the road that leads to the future, with the power from the ancient past to the new Turkey, and to greet your delegation and our beloved nation with a proper conversation.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0352par0470	Thank you, Mr. Cube. This concludes the speech of the Justice and Development Party Group. The first statement on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group belongs to İzmir MP Tacettin Bayır. Here you go, Mr. Ridge. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0353par0476	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the budget of the 2016 Energy Market Organization. On this occasion, I salute all our people and you, our esteemed Regents. Dear lawmakers, as is known, we are going through a period that sees the mountain, the water, the air, and especially the energy sector as pure rants. We're in the middle of the most intense privatisation process. I'm afraid we're not looking forward to public damage by selling most of it to close-up firms under their real value. We also watch the energy privatisation process during your administration, especially towards macheting your advocacy groups, attracting public assets. Given who the tenders were given, we found that the biggest share of privatisations in the energy sector was taken by the pool media that emerged during your governments. However this privatisation logic, 60 percent of the electricity distribution sector in the field of energy is in the monopoly of two groups close to you. In short, the electricity distribution sector, which previously was a state monopoly, has become a monopoly on capital groups close to the AKP. However, after the privatisation, electricity blackouts and malfunctions in various parts of our country have taken its toll on the citizens after these privatisations. Dear friends, the other thing I'd like to point out is how in our country is the wrong use of the authority to give a license, which is one of the areas of responsibility for the EPDK. As you all know, one of the areas in which clean energy is produced is wind power plants, which is REM. In the right place, in the right way, it is undoubtedly a preferable, renewable form of energy. We actually support what we think it can save energy from being dependent on the outside. Sadly, however, in my constituency, Izmir, the government's wrong choices have led to a few years of resistance against the RES (responsives) that have been established within their habitat. The Karaburun Peninsula is one of Turkey's major habitats with first-degree natural sites. It has an important biodiversity with its rich ecosystem. The peninsula is home to rare species of plants and animals, including endangered species. Despite the fact that they were known, the Ministry and its subsidiaries have turned their appetites towards RES into the Blackburin Peninsula. How else can the destruction of world heritage and national values in this region be explained by the State Department of Environment and Urbanism, the Department of Energy and the EPDK as a result of disregarding judicial decisions, even though the same firms have been revoked, as a result of giving new production licenses to the same firms? Mr. Secretary, the esteemed MPs, the Izmir MP and the Peninsula, we are never non-profits, of course we need energy, a fact that there are power wars in the world for energy. We're not against RES. We're against the unscheduled construction of the RES. We're against the destruction of the trees without a CED report. We're against the destruction of the trees. (Applause from CHP rows) We looked into it, and nowhere in Europe can be built within 1,800 metres of the RES post settlement, but today, in the Blackburun Peninsula, the RES poles are standing in the middle of our villages.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0354par0480	They build schools, schools.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0353par0481	Dear friends are in the midst of the villages of Cesme, Karaburun, Mordoğan, Ovacık, Urla, Alika, Bellabahça, Foça. We demand that these projects be carried out in remote areas, without slaughtering trees, with respect for the human right to live. Dear lawmakers, we have to leave a better environment, a viable Turkey for our future children, grandchildren. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'd also like to talk about some of your covered grant applications in our budget assessments. This grant, which had previously been used only by the Prime Minister, which was unquestionable, unresponsible, was suddenly submitted to the use of our President in March 2015 with a last-minute motion issued by the AKP (AKP). Like everyone else, I wondered why our new President would need this allowance. I turned around, and I looked back, and Mr. Ahmet Necdet Sezer, our former President, spent over seven years on the budget of 197 million, so his average annual average was 25 million. Later, Mr. Abdullah Gul spent 746 million in seven years, so his average is 106 million liras a year. That's four times what the previous President spent. Now, to our current President, the budget and covered funds have spent 2 billion 950 million dollars a year. That's a republican history record, folks. When we remove the covered grant and evaluate it in terms of the budget, Erdogan used a budget of 546m euros a year, and the annual spending level is 22 times Mr. Sezer. These are the taxes our people pay. Dear friends, a country's reputation is measured not by the size or greatness of the palace, but by the lack of its poor and its hungry people, by the level of education, by the level of its freedom of thought and expression. Respect for a president is proportional to how he handles the country with understanding, with how he conducts it. Therefore, our President, who has the highest case against citizens in our republic's history, is the defendant of 1,845 people, and that is the record of a republic's history. Dear friends, as I end my remarks, we vote against the 2016 budget budget, both in terms of budget-making techniques, and on behalf of the loss of our faith in the neutrality of budget management, on behalf of our people, we vote against the 2016 budget.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit04spe0355par0488	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0355par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the sixth round of the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Act. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Antalya MP Cetin Osman Buddhak is a member of the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0356par0005	They're gone now.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0355par0006	In second place, Mr. Murat is the Minister. Mr. Murat, MP of İzmir, I call you to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0357par0011	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. A competitive market economy and economic freedoms should be developed in Turkey by its power and sanction, which is theoretically independent administrative authority. In order to perform this function, it has to be independent, not in theory, but also in practice. I call it necessary because the Competition Foundation is not formed with fair and transparent criteria, it's determined by political maturity. There is no way that such institutions can be independent and transparent and manageable in a single government dominated by the sultan. It is imperative that the Competitiveness Foundation, which has infinite powers of supervision and punishment, is independent. Well, how does it have to be independent, autonomous and transparent? The formation of the institution must be discussed publicly through the free press, especially who its members will be. So, is the press free? Our press is more free to write, say, in favour of the government, the AKP, the President, than in any country. If you are a opposition, critical-looking press member, you can be freed in prison, as Can Dündar wrote to the President. So the autonomy of such institutions is proportional to the liberalisation of all institutions and institutions in our country, especially the press, and the establishment of liberal democracy. It is a fact that members of parliament, whose election was discussed publicly and elected, will be more just and courageous. This is also true of all independent administrative institutions in our country, and it is a comfort to political men. This is how these institutions, which are the source of America, work in America and in Europe. Because this is happening, he treats the head of state equally to those who oppose power, to the pro-government companies, to those who oppose power. My dear friends, see what the law on paper says: the Competitive Association is independent. No body, authority, or person can give orders or instructions to influence the decision of the institution. You may think I'm joking when I say this; I'm not joking, except for a small exception, friends. No authority, except the President, has already influenced the decisions of the institution. The Competition Agency has shown us in practice that it is not independent. The most concrete example of this is the Travel. In the resistance of travel, the gas, the bat, the TOMA, the hotel of the Court, where young people seek refuge, who want to save their lives -- you know, the Coach's Court Hotel -- followed by the Prime Minister's grudge against Coach's group, and the army's arrows went towards Coach's group. The Competitiveness Association, which crushes our tradesman like a cylinder, ignores the AVMs that are almost opened in villages, never visits companies who are constantly receiving tenders from the state. The Prime Minister speaks highly of this bench, referring to the tradition of the Ahi, recommending that they open their shops in the prayers of the tradesman Ahi. Is there a tradesman left in this ruthless, uncontrollably competitive environment? Mr. Prime Minister, what logistics are you talking about? Don't wear out the common spiritual values of our society by speaking unwarrantedly, and don't make the bones of Ahi Evran. [[Applause from CHP rows]] A few days before the bench, AKP Kırşehir MP shared the words of Ahi Evran. I would also like to express from this stage a saying of Ahi Evran: "Do not deceive anyone, be reasonable, do not look at the unlawful, do not eat unlawfully, do not drink unlawfully. " Dear friends, the Association of Competition is looking at the faces of the ministers, the eyes of the President, and the words that come out of his mouth, just like the magistrates did. He's using the signals as an excuse for the institutions that need to be crushed. You all know the story, if the wolf decides to eat the lamb, there's plenty of excuses. Isn't that what our institutions do? Isn't our judgment, which should be the most independent institution in the country, the spy from our journalists, the artist, the authors, creating traitors and judging us? A plague is better than a thousand advices. It is the principle that he gives punishments to those he chooses consciously so that it frightens the companies. The new Ottoman dream of power. At a time when some consider themselves sultans, others view themselves as sadrasms, others as sheikhs, it is only natural that the Competitive Society sees itself as Mad Dumrul. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, in countries where there is a healthy competition, poverty, corruption decreases. For example, according to Transparency International's Corruption Perception Index, in 2014, our country was ranked ranked ranked 66, the 64th row in 2014. According to the corruption index, the first five cleanest countries are Denmark, New Zealand, Finland, Sweden and Norway; the five worst-cased countries are Libya, Sudan, Afghanistan, North Korea and Somalia. Our country didn't make it to the top five with this rapid decline, but by December 17th and 25th, it's ranked number one in the world, dear friends. So as the competitive conditions are fair, so corruption is getting less and less, we see that. According to this index, five of the cleanest countries are also among the top 20 countries with competitive free markets. The last five countries in the worst situation are among the 20 worst countries in which competition is not freely run. Our proposal: a lot has changed in competitive law in the European Union over the last 15 years. Turkey should be able to adapt to these changes, and the Competitive Association must be restructured by public debate, according to universal democratic rules. The selection of members must also be discussed publicly and selected in Parliament by a qualified majority. So it's a brave, fair, transparent institution that stands before the public, not the public. The current Competition Foundation has a 90-page strategic plan, 2014-2018. I read this 90-page strategic plan. If this 90-page strategic plan were to sum up the Competition Foundation strategy in one sentence, it would have done a better job. While the Competition Foundation -- the truth of this year, I want to express from this bench -- is being rebuilt -- politics should lead to this, but then it shouldn't get in the way. Dear friends, on the grounds that we have explained above, we will vote negatively for the Competitive Association's budget, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0358par0026	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0359par0027	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0358par0028	Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0359par0029	With a microphone, if you want...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0358par0030	Okay, let's turn on the mike. Here you are, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0359par0034	Mr. President, in his speech just now, he made some descriptions, especially of journalists as spies, artists as traitors, here's the king, Sultan and so on. I'd like to point out that we specifically rejected them. The profession of journalism and our work today do not prevent crime in any way, and it is not possible to tolerate what is done in journalism. If, today, in a process where we're fighting total terrorism in our country, there is a position by ignoring terrorism in this way -- treason, espionage, if that's what's being done -- the profession won't cover it. I'd like to make that very clear. And, of course, in our country, we have our elected President, our Prime Minister and Parliamentaries who entered with his party again. So in our country, it's a perception management -- it's like violence, sultan, sultan, etc., etc. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our people are all-seeing and all-knowing. There's no way to accept them. I specifically wanted to point that out. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0360par0039	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz. 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 I) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014 Now, it is up to Antalya MP Cetin Osman Buddhak. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Budak, come in. Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0361par0087	Mr. President, esteemed MPs, esteemed ministers, first of all, I salute you all. I've been promised the budget of the Ministry of Customs and Trade. I'll give you my opinion on this matter. In particular, the ministers repeat a routine during budget presentations; they repeat what they have done since 2002, what they have done by 2015. Good; good things have been done, by the way. But what's missing needs to be said, projects need to be told for the future. You have to tell them what the solutions are when you say the issues you already have. I mean, what I'm looking at is, if a college student gets a paper like this, does a paper like this, I think he'll get a broken note. Because I think of it as a eunuch. Now, I'm going to come clean with the real numbers. Now, dear friends, in December 2002, the state's debt was 242.7 billion liras -- a quadrillion liras -- in December 2015, the state's debt was 677.7 billion liras. The stockpile of domestic debt in December 2002 is 149.9 billion liras, and the stockpile of domestic debt in December 2015 is $440 billion. It's up about three and a half floors. December 2002, public debt per capita is $3,677; December 2015, public debt per person is $8,717. Again, December 2002, the debt rate of family income -- pay attention here -- 4.7 per cent; today, December 2015, the debt rate of family income increased to 55.2 per cent. December 2002, the private sector's external debt was $43 billion; December 2015, the private sector's external debt increased to $289.6 billion. So instead of the state, the private sector is in debt, the debt of 78 million is in debt with the debt of the state. The average unemployment rate between 1988 and 2002 is 8 per cent, dear friends, and average unemployment between 2003 and 15 is 10.2. Not to mention the ones who have given up hope of finding a job, and 1,250,000 have given up hope of finding a job, not looking for a job, not in statistics. Young unemployment, by the way, runs at 20 percent. A total of 43.7 billion per year in December 2002, but by December 2015, from 2002, the total amount is 472.2 billion dollars, 10 times, more than 10 floors. It's possible to extend this, but I want to explain in particular: If you explain a painting, you have to talk about it from 2002 until 2015. Now, there's also the matter of the Economic Social Council. I'm saying it in relation to this. It's been well-thought out, it's been put into the Constitution in 2010, and it's been six years since the Economic and Social Council met. It's a constitutional institution under the rule that the Economic and Social Council must meet once in three months. Now, a new structure is being created, especially in the Fivetepe, the Council of Economics and Foreign Trade. Now, there's a council here, a constitutional council there, but there's a... so that means we can't do it properly while we're doing our legislature, especially for the majority of us, we're doing it in the palace. There will be rules in the palace concerning economics and the external economy, and unfortunately, the ministers will approve them. Now, sir, look, especially the area of our Trade Minister; you're new, so I don't have much to say to you, but I've been president of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry for about eight years. For eight years, in 2009, I've never forgotten, I've only collected about 10,000 signatures from the Antalya region. For what? This is the department store law, so that the AVM law can be passed, and we've given this file to the Minister of the period. The bill has been made seven times, seven times; every time it's been kept in one place, it's trapped under a bra, it's stayed in front of the Prime Minister's office, and the law hasn't been passed. Now, the law came out, and the former Minister Hayati Printer, in fact, had drafted a bill that was close to perfect, and there was a very important issue there. Planning cities related to economics, strategic plan; it was destroyed. Now, municipalities can't make strategic business plans; they can make public plans, make state plans and enforce them. Now, everywhere, an example of Antalya, or Izwar, there are hundreds of tradesmen who do the same work on a street, and let me say here in particular: Ali Coshkun, since our Minister's time, this law has not been able to prevent specific brands, which has also destroyed trade in Turkey, and right now go to the shelves of markets, and you'll see that you won't be able to see the local brand; it's already has no brands, and it's already has its own brands, and it's been difficult for the industry. You said immediately that you would make new legislation - you should add them to the new regulations you have made. Yeah, what did that create, by the way? Now, a grocery store, a chain market, a chain of international capital, about 10,000, to the right of a grocery store, one to the left, one to the left, one to drown the grocery store, now this needs to be fixed. Of course, this led to the unemployment of a major tradesman, about 350,000 people who have been unemployed for the past 13 years. What does the tradesman do? He closes his shutters, he's out of a job. The current tradesman's 35% BUG-KUR premiums have been increased recently, which is not a conscientiously acceptable thing. Now, also, there's the check bond issue, and it's back in your field. In the previous period, Mr. Secretary Ali Babacan's bill... and the excuse given there is that if we put Czech criminals in jail today, 140,000 people would go to prison. That's why we're taking the prison away from this check. They said, "Well, the market has collapsed." The borrower didn't get what he was owed, he owed, he went down, but the debtor went down. Hopefully, you'll make an adjustment to that, and it'll be easy to arrange, to bring back the same punishment. We're going to issue a consumer law. You say, not consumer law, but NGOs are in no position to speak at this time. You passed the consumer's law, but consumer associations are out of the question if the government doesn't support them. The Hal Law -- there's not much time left to say -- but you complain, the Minister of Economics complains, we import meat. He says, "The Minister of Agriculture complains about meat prices, we open shop for them, we open 160 shops." He says, "The Minister of Customs and Trade complains about the price of tomatoes." In Antalya, the tomato is $1, so it's $5. So it's not a complaint, it's a solution. I'm out of time. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0362par0107	Thank you, Mr. Budak. Now, it's time for Balıkesir MP Ahmet Akin. Mr. Akin, your time is eight minutes. We will add seven minutes from there, and fifteen minutes from there, because you will speak in the place of Namik Havut, which will speak after you. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0363par0111	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget for 2016 of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. I hereby salute the High Council. Mr. Secretary, I have a bill. The consumer spending is 53 liras, totaling 102 liras. We can't tell the difference. Our people don't understand that either. Whatever we're paying here, whatever we're paying you, we're asking you to explain it because we need it to be known and our people to know. You were saying the same thing before you privatized them. You, now, have privatized these, normally they have to be cheap. Do you know what happened, Congressman? The AKP government filled the vaults of electricity production and distribution companies, emptying our people's pockets. The regulations made in the electricity distribution today have been clouded by judicial decisions, so that the missing fugitive costs -- our people -- would not see or know -- were lost in the bills. Unfortunately, the distribution companies are in the way, and we can't possibly accept that. And then there's the TRT share. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I wish the TRT were real and neutral, and we could willingly support it, but let me tell you where it is. It is an institution that can shamelessly insult the founder and savior of this country, which has only become the broadcasting body of the AKP (AKP), which is staffed by close relations, and is allegedly involved in corruption. Who pays the money? Turkey. So you're forcing money from our people into your own broadcast, and you're getting your own publicity. We can't possibly accept that. While you're collecting the money, there's a big fire in the houses, and the electricity bills have made our people sick and riot. How are our people going to watch TRT? Because they can't pay their bills? Mr. Secretary, you're a well-educated man with good business experience, and I respect that, but there's one thing I'm very curious about. How could you be in such a mistake? I'd like to show you here a concrete document signed in your name, showing that AKP's electricity market works for distribution companies rather than for the public. A question I asked about electricity bills, which your Ministry, in its six-signed form, wrote in the exact same way: "There have been many lawsuits against the cancellation of these costs in the past period, and market players who have had to enforce them under the law have lost their cases in serious amount of time. The fiscal sustainability of distribution companies, authorized supply companies or other supply companies that deal with similar cases will be negatively affected, as you can see, the tradition of not knowing court decisions and law in AKP has taken over from top to bottom. However, it is well known by everyone that the court's decisions bind anyone without exception. I don't like this decision, I don't apply it, I don't know it. There's no such thing as an arbitrary state of law. Do you have any information from this document signed in your name, Mr. Secretary? We'd like you to answer those questions. We need to be clear about the elements in the bills our people pay. And our people need to know how much they've been screwed. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, as of last year, our current deficit was $32 billion, and the money we paid for energy imports was about $38 billion. What are you doing about alternative energy sources, Mr. Secretary? How do you invest in the sun and wind? We know that our renewable potential is too high, what is our measured potential? How much of our potential do we use?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0364par0119	You say, "Do it," and you say, "Do it." How's that gonna work?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0363par0120	What are your future plans for this matter? Only ten days ago, Morocco, who imported 95 percent of the energy, built the world's largest solar field. Denmark is currently gaining 40 percent of its electricity from wind power and has targeted it for 2020 and will obtain 50 percent of its electricity. We can't be as Germany, as Denmark, not as much as Morocco, Mr. Secretary? If you have a projection, with serious investments in the next decade, we can make solar panels, solar batteries and others ourselves and eliminate the current impact of energy imports on the open. Mr. Secretary, what do you do to produce these? Do you have a ten-year projection? In all things, you keep saying, "2023 goals." What are your 2023 goals on renewable energy? For future generations, please present these for this country so that our addiction will be removed. Mr. Secretary, speaking of 2023 targets, you said in your presentation in Plan Budget that two more nuclear power plants would be activated by 2023, and that the construction of the third would begin. We call it energy supply security, we call it local resources, we invest in renewable energy resources, and the Council of Ministers acknowledges that our addiction poses a threat to our country's security, but we invest it in an energy source that we depend on from a. You're planning to build two more nuclear plants when you can't convince our people about the first one, isn't that a serious contradiction? There's no trained staff, it takes training even to tighten the screws of this plant. You're fighting to place a bomb in our country with your own hands, still unresolved and unresolved. Are you comfortable, Mr. Secretary? Besides, isn't the establishment of these plants in our country going to increase our dependence altogether? If you want this country to be a prosperous and large country in the future, energy policies must be directed towards our supply security. A goal must be set before we can reduce or even end our dependency on the outside. I'm afraid we won't be able to make it through a barley line if we go like this. Mr. Secretary, let's put our universities at the center of the business, let's do RD; let houses, apartments, factories produce their own electricity. Let's not cause any difficulty to anyone who wants to produce and produce their own electricity. Let's give him a non-interest loan. Let's donate parts of the government and encourage our people to do so. I'm not saying nothing's been done, certain arrangements have been made in this area, of course, but very little and not enough. Come on, let's all do a top-notch study together. So let's be supportive, put a target in front of us together, and get rid of this outlet addiction. Dear lawmakers, look, a plane has been shot down, when is the gas going to be cut off in our hearts? Will it be cut or not? If that electricity was being produced by us, who's Russia, who's Iran. We won't have a cari deficit, we'll be a self-sufficient country, we'll have everything very different, we'll have our heads up. Why don't you work on these, Mr. Secretary, or explain why you're doing this? Today, our outside dependence on energy has exceeded 72 per cent and has become a threat to our national security. Instead of rushing door to door to door and making agreements to increase our dependency, I recommend that you imitate Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the republic and our state, and work in this way. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We know that AKP is promoting thermal plants in energy production, and that thermal power plant investments will increase and increase in the coming period. Between 2000 and 2013, local coals fell from 30 to 13 in the production of electricity energy. It is clear that thermal plants based on imported coal will not be the answer to our energy supply security. It's also a fact that thermal power plants have an environmental impact on the environment. Dear lawmakers, the world's crude oil prices have dropped rapidly. Because both fuel and natural gas prices are linked to crude oil prices, there's nothing different about us as we drop everywhere. In particular, we couldn't track the changes in fuel prices. There's a two-cent discount at night, a five-cent raise at noon, a raise or a discount, and we can't figure it out, no one understands. Mr. Secretary, there's still not been a drop in gas prices. You said there'd be a sale on natural gas. It's been a long time, when are you going to finish your work and give the discount? Our people can't turn on natural gas in their homes, they can't get warm. Or are you waiting for June, July? I'd like you to put your hands on your conscience. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Taxes from electricity and natural gas, especially fuel, are too high. In our country, 1 litre of gasoline is taxed 65 per cent. You made gas stations into tax offices. Stop seeing energy consumption as a tax source. What I'm trying to say here is that another thing that I consider an important resource is energy efficiency. In energy, we suffer this degree of deprivation, we pay a lot of money out there -- if I'm right -- but we don't see the source in front of our eyes. There have been some goals, but there is no progress. Turkey spends 30 per cent more energy than OECD countries for an illegal national product. Mr. Secretary, we have the potential to save energy in buildings equal to 30 percent, 20% in industry, 15% in transport, 4 Keban Dam. And it's up to you and your Ministry to provide and encourage energy efficiency by the power of the state. There's a lot to talk about with your ministry. We're on a deadline. There's mines, for example, there's the plunder of nature and soil, there's the subject of areas that are licensed but aren't operational, there's the fact that our miners pay the price for their over-profit in the mining sector with their lives. Mr. Secretary, don't let our people die in our mines. There's death on the outside of this, so don't let the stoves go out. Come, take precautions, because you're in charge and you're in charge. But I can't help but say that in Cerattepe, the Artvins fought a very respectable battle to protect their habitat, their stone, their land, their forest, their natural existence. Our citizen said to stop the prospect of looting the partisans. You're using humbling mining resources. You criticised the Prime Minister, who met with those who fought for his nature in Cerattepe. The Prime Minister spoke to the people there and made a statement. We're wondering now, what's going to happen? Will it be what the Prime Minister says or what the President says? We'll see about that together. Please don't let nature be slaughtered. Of course we need energy, we need mine. Deploy the mine without killing nature in a very balanced manner, and we'll assess our wealth, but don't put power plants in tiny little streams and ruin our nature, Mr. Secretary. You're working on destroying our Goose Mountains. Don't do it. See, in Cerattepe, you said, "Travellers" in a derogatory language, and you ignored them. But they're trying to protect nature. No one's here to take a gun and protect nature. As a result, what we ask of you is that we turn to our own resources. Let our energy be ours. Let us not adhere to Russia, nor to America, nor to Iran. Let's not go around the country and deal with things that aren't going to happen. We also know that 73% of the Boron reserves are in our country. Let's all consider this together, how to use it in the most efficient way we can work together. Look, Arab oil is what Russian gas is to us. What do you do to use our boron mines at the highest level? Or we can't do it, let's send it to America, let them do it, let them judge it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to point out that we have millions of poor citizens and coal is being distributed. Good, good, good. The weight of kilograms on the coals you distribute is not the same as the weight of coal that goes to our people's houses. To whom is the runt passed from the backs of our poor people? Why are you sacrificing our people to Ranta? You're handing out coal to our poor citizens, so let's give them free electricity. We've got some law-proposal work coming up on this one. Let's get this ready together, make the offer if you have to, and we'll support it. Together, let us support our people along with the opposition to power. Minister, I beg you, do not sacrifice our people to Ranta. You became Minister at a young age, so happy for you, but give me the right of that chair. Keep your horizons and vision wide open. In the 21st century, let your solution to energy addiction not be a turd. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0365par0141	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0366par0142	Well, now it's time for Sinop MP Barýþ... Excuse me, Mr. Black Sea, Mr. Akchay has entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0367par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. At the end of our dear Mr. Uður Aydemir's speech on the stand earlier, we had no dams, no ponds, no irrigation facilities, from 1982 to 2003. I simply want to say that this is the wrong approach and the wrong words. All of the republic's governments have done these services to every corner of our country, according to their means, and we thank them all. That includes the Justice and Development Party. Of course, since this is going to take a very long time, it's just that, in short, during the 57th Government period and in previous years, the services of the 1980s... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0368par0152	Let's finish, Mr. Akchay. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0367par0154	...only with their names, the road to the Blacksmith-Salihli, the start of Akhisar-Gölmarma, which has been incomplete for 14 years. Also, the road to Turgutlu-Manisa has not been completed for 27km and has not been completed for 14 years. Don't forget that, too. The Gördes Dam, the Karayakup village, has not yet been made public. The Gördes Dam is a huge dam, very important, for many years. The Avşar Dam, Kula Dam, other services, public hospitals, schools, hospitals, health care, investments in Celal Bayar University, many other services have been made. Denial is not the right approach. It's good to remember all the governments, ministers and bureaucrats who do these services with gratitude, as well as our citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0368par0156	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 I) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014 Now it's time for Sinop MP Peace Black Sea. Mr. Black Sea, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0369par0204	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the budgetary budgetary budget of 2016. I salute your grand delegation and our citizens at the top of the television. Dear lawmakers, I begin by honoring world leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the Republic of Turkey and our party, who moved the mansion not for a tree, but for a tree. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Members of parliament, the Black Sea people and all Turkey do not want nuclear power plants, especially Sinop. He's doing everything he can to make himself heard about it. Unfortunately, though, either their voices are being forced down or they're being ignored. If you ignore us, we'll ignore you. Dear MPs, after the Chernobyl accident, you will remember the late Secretary of State Cait Aral, who claims that the radiation in the tea was not dangerous. Thirty years ago, the minister, who measured TV and a bag of tea in front of journalists, said television emitted more radiation. And today, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Mr. Colonel, underestimating radiation, compares nuclear power plants to an MRI device. What kind of mentality is that? There's got to be an explanation for this. This country is too honorable and precious to be handed over to brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, wives, grooms and children. This country is not a family company. This family is not the governing body of this country, and a certain individual is never the chairman of the board.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0370par0211	Can you tell me who you're talking to?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0371par0212	What do you mean?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0372par0213	What do you mean?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0373par0214	Mr. Black Sea, please, I beg you, let's not use hurtful words. Let's not bother with the character for those who aren't here.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0374par0215	I'm not saying anything to anyone. Congressmans, just after the Chernobyl accident, radiation rained from the sky like mud for days in the Black Sea.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0375par0217	Peace, say the whole thing!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0376par0218	Do you know who found the atom?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0377par0219	Congressmans, let's not interfere with the congressman.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0378par0220	It's been thirty years since the Chernobyl disaster. For years, there have been at least two cancer patients in every house in the Black Sea. It's a shame, isn't it? Honourable lawmakers are preparing for the nuclear massacre in the AKP government, Sinop Τ, Akkuyu (Akkuyu) and Needledada. To carry out this massacre, the public is being deceived. The play of nuclear lobbying is literally played on the public. He claims the nuclear lobby will use its perception operation technique to reduce the risks caused by Turkey's energy dependence. Turkey without uranium, however, will spend about $3.5 billion on fuel to run a nuclear plant in Sinop. The statement of the Sinop nuclear power plant to reduce its dependence on the outside in terms of electricity production is a huge lie by the AKP. Congressmans, the Fukushima accident in Japan has once again shown that nuclear plants are not reliable. This accident has revealed the vulnerability of even the world's most advanced technology in nuclear space in nuclear disasters. Minister Colonelrak says it's the safest place for Sinop and Mersin. Japan and Russia are two countries with criminal records that have suffered the largest nuclear impact. You're talking about security by getting them to build a nuclear power plant. Every day, our children, our brothers, our children are martyred for the sake of a presidential ambition. Turkey's heart is in Ankara, 300 metres ahead of parliament, terrorists are setting off bombs in Turkey's most secure region, and you're watching.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0379par0225	You support the terrorists.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0378par0226	Just hear me out! With what intelligence, with what prevention will you be able to protect the nuclear plant in Sinop (Akkuyu) in Akkuyu (Akkuyu) from terrorist attacks?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0380par0228	Do you know how many nuclear plants there are in the world? How many nuclear plants are there?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0378par0229	Who are you kidding, Osman Bey?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0380par0230	Isn't there a nuclear plant in France? Isn't there any in Japan? Have you ever seen a nuclear power plant?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0381par0231	You didn't say terrorist, you defended...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0378par0232	Congressmans, the Atomic Energy Foundation is the AKP's farm today. Unindependent, non-independent, politically dependent...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0382par0233	Do you or do you not support the soldier's fight against the terrorist?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0383par0234	France produces 40 percent of its electricity from nuclear.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0384par0235	Congressmans, let's not interfere. Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0385par0237	You're from the Black Sea, and you ate that radiation. We're talking about the budget of a non-scientific institution. There's an Atomic Energy Agency in our country, but why isn't there a clean energy agency? Clean, domestic and renewable sources of energy... OSMAN LOVE BAK (Rize) Germany produces, Japan produces. You're talking!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0386par0241	Mr. Bak... please, Mr. Lawmakers, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0385par0242	...a country with the sun, the wind, the sea. In Europe, the new nuclear power plant was banned in the United States and transferred to renewable clean energy. Why is a lot of clean resources not preferred in our country, Mr. Secretary? Dear lawmakers, there are no fish left in the Black Sea after Chernobyl. The species of fish, 52, fell to 26. Less and less fish are fished every day in the Black Sea, where 300,000 tonnes per year are caught. 4,300 fishermen registered in Sinop have the fear that they will lose their jobs, their bread, because of the nuclear plant. You put billions of dollars into nuclear power plants, you destroy fishing, and you're obviously going to give us a budget deficit. The esteemed MPs, the AKP government, led the massacre of trees in Manisa, in Artvin Cerattepe, in Zonguldak, in Bursa, in İstanbul, in Balıkesir, in the Kaz Mountains, with the baton, with the gas, with the baton.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0387par0245	Why don't you say something about the CHP who cut down the trees in Yalova?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0385par0246	Those who have brought security forces against their lands, their trees, for the sake of Rant, are neither a statesman nor a world leader, who calls those people "Yavru Gezic" (a terrorist).
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0388par0247	They cut down a hundred and fifty years of trees in Yalova.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0385par0248	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I put an end to my words, I ask the AKP government here...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0389par0249	Wasn't that the tree from Yalova?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0390par0250	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0385par0251	Who did you promise when you built the nuclear power plant? What did you do the math for?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0391par0252	Address the General Assembly, General Kurula, General Board.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0385par0253	You're talking about $22 billion while the Japanese explain the cost of the Sinop nuclear power plant at $16 billion. Whose pockets are you going to fill?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0391par0255	Tell me what happened on November 1st! Tell me what happened in the election on November 1st! What happened in the trunk? What happened in the trunk? What happened to the 11th election?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0392par0256	Look, please, I beg you...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0385par0257	When you sacrifice the last Sinopian, the last Black Seaman to nuclear, who are you going to sell that electricity to? That's what I'm asking you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0391par0258	What happened in the trunk? You've lost all the elections!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0392par0259	Mr. Look, Mr. Look, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Look, please, don't make a sound.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0385par0260	I'm telling you loud and clear: Sinop, Akkuyu, Turkey is screaming; all of Turkey is telling you: we're not going to build a nuclear power plant. We don't want a nuclear power plant. We love our country, our children, we don't want a nuclear power plant. I salute our grand delegation, thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0393par0264	Look what they're saying, what they're saying! Look at what people are saying, look at him, look at him! You haven't had power in 70 years! Listen to what they're saying!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0394par0265	Zonguldak MP Şerafettin Radpcu is in charge. Mr. Radish, please...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0395par0267	Mr. President, you're warning all the speakers. Do you have that language, please? What kind of language is that? They didn't even let him talk.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0396par0268	Look at what the people are saying. We said, we didn't say anything.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0394par0269	Congressmans, I've invited the speaker to the stand, I beg of you. If there's a promise to be said, if there's a group member or a person picked on, it's already answered. Please, let's not ruin the patient's life. Here you go, Mr. Radish. Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0397par0273	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group on the budget of the Delegation of Mines and Search Directorate. I salute your high council and our people. First of all, I honor the 103 mining martyrs who died in the March 3, 1992 Kozlu disaster, which was the biggest disaster in the Zonguldak coal basin's history approaching a hundred and seventy years, and today's anniversary, 263, March 7, 1983. Dear lawmakers, it is known that our country, whose facial measurement is 783 thousand square kilometers, has been drilled up to 200 meters [200 m] deep. We don't know what's under there yet. The average drilling in developed countries, Mr. Secretary, is completed to the depth of a thousand meters. In order to uncover our country's mining assets, a massive drilling operation is needed. There are important tasks for the institution in this regard. At this point, I think we need to start a separate parentheses for the production of stone coal, which is a hundred and seventy years of production culture, but has reached its end today. Zonguldak, the first province to be established after the Republic, martyred more than 5,000 miners to extract the coal of stone, and 10 thousand of our miners were crippled. Thousands of our people have died early due to occupational illness caused by stone coal dust. So Zonguldak is a city that has paid a very high price to build and develop our country's industry. The capital of labor, Zonguldak, is unfortunately today the capital of retirement and unemployment. That is because power has been unable to invest in Zonguldak for 14 years. Since there is no employment, Zonguldak is migrating and shrinking day by day. In 2002, the population of Zonguldak (Zonguldak, 616K) in your power has migrated every year, reducing to 595K in 2015. Its role in the economy is becoming increasingly smaller, and now it's like a watered-down mill. The government must know that Zonguldak doesn't want charity, he wants what he's made for the economy for a hundred and seventy years, he wants what he deserves, he wants an investment, he wants a job. Valuable lawmakers have been the engine of the development of Turkey's industry, which has been active since the first years of the republic, and have also contributed a great deal to the country and the region's economy, becoming one of the main institutions of our region in terms of employment. Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation is the only institution in our country that mines deep wells and mines coal in sub-seafields. At the same time, Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation is an institution that builds its first claim -- an underground accident rescue station, and raises 10,000 investors across the country so far. We're talking about an institution that's so important, so strategic, but brought to an end by power. This important institution has been able to produce at least a fraction of its employees in its history today. From 1970 to 1980, 42,000 workers were reduced to 16,000 in 2002, and now to 8,900. The company's norm staff is 14. Therefore, the required labour force deficit must be immediately completed, and the completion of the norm staff must be completed each year in order to preserve this level. It is known that there are about 1.3 billion tons of reserves in our basin. By eliminating the labour deficit, the institution will gain a huge momentum for production of 5 million tonnes per year. The Court's audit report on TTK (TTK) in 2014 stressed that production activities in the Zonguldak stone basin should be maintained and encouraged by the necessary investments and incentives, and that it is not possible to increase the production amount, even if all preparations are completed. We have to make the best use of stone coal reserves and contribute to the country's economy by supplying the country's need for stone coal. Despite these facts, why doesn't the government, which is constantly emphasising domestic resources, satisfy the workers' deficit of the TTK? It is not possible to understand why he did not take the steps he needed to take regarding the restructuring of the institution. Mr. Minister, since there are not enough underground workers, it is impossible to increase production anyway. Do you ever consider the impact of the amount of coal imported on the current deficit because there is not enough domestic production? Mr. Minister, you are saying that the current status assessment report for Turkey's Taşkomömu Agency was drawn up in 2010, but no progress has been made until today due to the lack of interagency agreement on the report. Minister, what are the issues that institutions haven't reached an agreement with TTK in six years, please explain in your speech, and we'll know that. When it comes to investing, restructuring, and hiring, what does your authority, which has passed the law within hours, expect when it comes to investing, restructuring, and hiring? Dear lawmakers, in the 1970s, produced about 5 million tons of coal, while the Taşkomuru Foundation began to decrease year-on-year, in 2002, with 2.2 million tons in your power, and by the end of 2015, you reduced it to 948 thousand tons. In 1980, Zonguldak met 80 per cent of Turkey's need for stone coal, while unfortunately today it dropped to around 6 per cent. As remarkable as the low impact on production during the AKP period is, imports endure massively each year. The import of stone coal, which is 0.9 million tonnes in 1980, has now reached the level of 32 million tonnes. We've got coal under the ground, we've got unemployed above ground, but you can't extract coal because of your politics. The May 2015 report highlights recent developments in the international coal market, supply difficulties and rising coal prices as well as the importance of domestic production once again. Mr. Secretary, why do you stay so far away from the Zonguldak stone coal despite this painting? As I put an end to my words, I would like to say that TTK's labor deficit must be immediately repaired, restructuring, strengthening its capital, and raising it to its feet. The work that needs to be done must be completed immediately. Even preventing employment and foreign currency here is a win in itself. In light of these facts, I wish the reconstruction to be completed immediately. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0398par0288	Thank you, Mr. Radish.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0399par0289	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0398par0290	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0399par0291	I demand word in accordance with the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0398par0292	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0399par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I had a question in the previous session, and I didn't get an answer to that question. I believe the question I'm asking about the Dolmabahçe understanding is important in order to find out the government's current position. We believe that the final process of the solution has evolved entirely through the agreement of Dolmabahçe and the rejection of the monitoring committee, and we have expressed that in many conversations. Mr. Home Secretary, who represented the government and the Prime Minister yesterday, expressed here that they were behind the agreement, that everything they did was right. Therefore, this is an important statement. Is this a policy change for the AKP, or do I not find the President's understanding of Dolmabahçe correct? Is it a insistence on the government's position despite its approach? That's what we want to know. In this regard, the ministers are both here and the members of the group are here, so I'd appreciate it if I could answer my question. The second issue, Mr. President, is that we've been trying to figure out the contradictions of the statements made by the President's chief advisors and statements from the government over the past few days. We're trying to figure out where to consider them. Today, the President's adviser, Bulent Gedikli, is not a personal comment on the President's assessments of the Constitutional Court... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll be right back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0400par0300	Mr. Bauken, let's finish.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0399par0301	...provided by his position of office, he said he reflected a public conscience. This, as far as I know, reflects the will of the Council of Ministers, spokeswoman of the Council of Ministers, government spokesman, Mr. Numan Survivmiş, is a 180-degree contrary to the statements made by Mr. Numan. Now, in the present situation, what explanation should we base on? I'd like to ask the Cabinet members again. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0400par0303	Yeah. Now, it's time for Artvin MP Ugur Bayraktutan. 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 I) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014 Here you go, Mr. Flagtut. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0401par0351	Mr. President, thank you very much. I salute your high council. It's an honor for our Artvins to face our Minister of the Forest here today, Mr. Secretary. Before I came here, I found out that Mr. Minister had a deep knowledge of the forest, a degree in history at the TBMM -- I thought he was a forest engineer.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0402par0353	He's a civil engineer.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0401par0354	He's also a civil engineer. I thought only a lawyer could answer him in front of such a CV case, Mr. Secretary. Let me explain it to you first. Mr. Secretary says we planted 3 billion trees before we faced against Cerattepe. Look, in 2014, I asked you four questions, where did you plant three billion saplings in ten years? Can you tell me where you've put the district? Explain these in detail. I asked questions. You answered me. Your answer, Mr. Secretary, is that we planted 3 billion saplings. Now, Mr. Secretary, Nasrettin Hodja has a joke. They asked Hodja Nasrettin where is the center of the world? Excuse me, there was a donkey with it, and he said, "The center of the world is the back right foot of this donkey." They wondered, "How are we going to measure it?" If not, measure. And now the Minister says, "If you don't, Mr. 3.5 billion trees." Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary? Let's count before it melts.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0403par0357	There are 3 billion stars in the sky.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0401par0358	Why am I telling you this now? Mr. Secretary, look... So, in fact, I should say to you, not Mr. Secretary, but to the people of Artvin who aren't looking. Why should I say that? I want to express it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0404par0359	That's not funny.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0401par0360	It may not be funny for you, because you don't know what happened at Artvin. Look, there's this expression, my dear Minister: In the years when I was a lawyer at Artvin, I told you that -- the state protected the forest from the citizens. Because of the violations of 6831, we used to be their lawyers. Now, times have changed, my friends. People have been protecting the forest from the Minister of the Forest for six months -- I don't know if the Director General of the Forest is here, and that's something special -- from the Deputy Director General of the Forest, the Director of the Forest. The instructions are from the top. There are patriotic people in the Forest Area Department, so I'm putting them aside. People have been waiting six months for the forest in Artvin. You broke it last week, congratulations, gassing people. Congratulations on destroying people in a republic city, Mr. Secretary! There's no way, there's no way to accept that. In the drawing, the director of the forest of the Minister of the Forest, before the location was delivered to an interested company... You've made a delivery to the company about the location being filed on the file, and there's no way to accept that. There's only one answer, Mr. Secretary, in time everything develops, but it's a false document statement, which is the equivalent of the Turkish Penal Code. You instructed the public official to give the location to the company before you went to his place. There's no way to accept that. Why did you have to do that? I find it hard to understand why you had a company destroy a city. I don't understand why you did this. What kind of public interest, what kind of power, what kind of political will was that? Why sacrifice a city to the ambitions of a businessman? Tell me why you sacrificed it, Mr. Secretary. Look, we came to you last week. I thank the Prime Minister here, so he sent us to the Artvin delegation, but we'll see what his good intentions are in the coming days. And in our meeting with the delegation there, I believe you are the best of intentions, Mr. Prime Minister. Look, after we had this meeting, Mr. President came out, and he said, "Sir, there are baby Travelers in Artvin. Now, Mr. Minister knows about the baby Travelers around the table, and I'll tell you who these baby Travelers are in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, because we're here on their behalf. There's the ruling party MP, there's the ruling party's mayor, there's the mayor, there's the mayor, there's two former mayors of the ruling party, there's the mayor of the CHP, there's the mayor of the National Movement Party, there's the representative of EDUTIM-BIR-SEN. Guys, are these baby Travelers?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0405par0364	What about those who say, "Artvin is Cizre." There are people burning it down.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0401par0365	Just because he's like that, just because he's like that... Look, I'm not going in there. Now, here's the thing.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0406par0367	Come in, come in. Why don't you come in?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0401par0368	No, I'll go in there. Artvin is a republic city. I told the Prime Minister that there was a...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0407par0369	All cities are republic cities, all cities.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0401par0370	I'll tell you, I'll tell you; you tell me. Look, all cities are republic cities, that's exactly what I agree with him, but know this, I told the Prime Minister that no traitor would come out of Artvin, and no thief would come out of him. I made that very clear in the Prime Minister's office, huh? I said, "Artvin, there is no traitor, and there is no thief." In the painting that came, look, this is the case in Cerattepe; with the Traveler, no, it is not an act of transfer.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0408par0372	Then, did outside men come to Artvin?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0401par0373	From the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Parliament of Ataturk, to all Turkey, we are not traveling in Artvin.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0408par0374	Then why didn't you separate them, what happened in action?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0401par0375	...we're permanent in Artvin, friends, you'll see that in time. (Applause from CHP rows) We will prove to seven duvets in time when we never discuss Artvin's values, that we are loyal to the values of the republic, that we love our nature, the republic, the Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and its values. Now, about something else. Look, I've had some information about the Director General of the Forest, and I didn't have that kind of detail. For example, I've only received information from one of the undersecretary's assistants about forest engineering, and I don't know if that's true. There are interesting arrangements for the places of employment. Look, I don't know if it's a very interesting example in Izmir, whether it's right or wrong. There's an interesting place of employment in Izmir, dear friends, that has nothing to do with Artvin. Look, this is what's called the Valley of Heaven. This place is leased to a contractor for $25,000 a year, which is over 90 hectares -- my dear friends. This inventor is taking it. It's a daily drive-in; small car costs 20 lira, van costs 30 lira, bus costs 60 lira. Two thousand cars a day on weekends, my dear friends, look, watch out for the numbers. It's got four wedding halls in it, although normally there's not supposed to be concrete land in the forest area, one of which is leased for $25,000 a night. Mr. Secretary, go out -- Mr. General Manager -- there's probably more information on the district manager -- and say, "What special person is it that has $25,000 a year?" I wish he was from Artvin, but he's such a great entrepreneur, so it's an incredible number. Now, I've got some interesting information about the pickup of helicopters and helicopters, but I don't have much time left. I also have detailed documents and information on the fact that there are interesting tenders being made to hire helicopters in the fires. When I compare the fires, you'll probably be out in a little while, and you'll say, "The fires are down here." You'll say, "We'll evaluate these as well." There's another interesting piece of information, Mr. Secretary. Now, just now, before I came here, I asked Engin Altay, did the forest office in Sinop have closed down? Mr. Engin Altay said: "The forest area in Sinop is closed." The minister said, " 64 per cent of the territory of all Sinop. You've shut down the forest district in Sinop, let's forget about the rest, you've shut down the forest district office. In Çanakkale, the entire forest area of Çanakkale was closed at 64 percent, the forest district manager first, and then the forest district manager now opened in the new elections. I have to thank him, too, because it's reopened, so it's not like we're gonna criticize everything. But it has to be said that in Kayseri, I'm not saying why did you shut down the entire forest area of Kayseri, but when 7.3 percent of it was a forest area, why did you take it down to the chief and then open up the forest district? 7.3 percent of the city... Mr. Secretary, I hope you won't forget that. I'll give you another example. In Şanlıurfa, seven thousandths of Şanlıurfa is a forest. Mr. Secretary, why did you open the forest district office in Şanlıurfa?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0409par0382	Not only in Şanlıurfa, but in the GAP region.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0401par0383	No, so do the others. Is it possible, then, that the choice of local governments with Sinop is that they are Republican People's Party, or am I calling a disaster? Is this the kind of disaster I'm trying to tell you about? [[Applause from CHP rows]] And you said, "Mr. Secretary - I missed these -- we're going to punish those who are in Artvin. " I wish you had shown that sensitivity when those actions were being done. " There, Mr. Prime Minister said, "3,500 trees," the company said. Look, it's a total 4,400 hectare area.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0410par0387	$3,500.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0401par0388	Even if it's 3,500, why don't you show it there, Mr. Secretary? Or are you the one who's going to make the decision about this punishment, Mr. Secretary, the prosecutor or the judge? I'm warning you about that. Once again, I speak from here: there is no Cerattepe, and the people of Artvin are invincible. Let the whole of Turkey know that.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0411par0391	Now it's time for...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0412par0392	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0413par0393	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement for him to go on the record.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0411par0394	Just a moment, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0413par0395	To get him on the record.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0411par0396	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0413par0397	In both his speech on the stand and in some of his earlier press views, Mr. Orator suggests that Artvin is the town of the republic, as if other cities that have been interfered with such social demonstrations were not the city of the republic. I'm sure that's not his intention.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0414par0398	It's not.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0411par0399	It's not, it's not.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0413par0400	We can't possibly accept that.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0411par0401	All cities, all cities, counties, towns, villages are the town of the republic, the settlements of the republic, an indivisible whole.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0413par0402	So there have been similar assessments of Cizre, which have been reflected in the press about Tyre.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0415par0403	He's already made a statement.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0413par0404	Therefore, that approach is a problematic approach.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0416par0405	He already fixed it, fixed it during his speech.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0413par0406	A situation arose: Artvin did not come out as a traitor or a thief. There's a concept in law called the personality of criminals, that every crime, for every definition, for any city, is defined in such a way that it doesn't come out of other cities.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0416par0407	He didn't mean it, Mr. Baluken. It's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0413par0408	Therefore, in order for this to go on the record, these statements are public...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0416par0409	It's in the transcripts. That's not what he meant.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0417par0410	Mr. Idris, this is the first time I agree with you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0416par0411	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0418par0412	Mr. President, there is no doubt that Mr. Baluken is not looking for ulterior motives in this assessment... [[Noises]] Oh, my friends...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0416par0415	Congressmans, I'm listening to Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0418par0416	...our citizens, who have not seen Mr. Flagtutan's speech and have followed Mr. Baluken, have taken the following impression that in his speech, he has broken up as a fellow citizen, he has made a patriotic dissolution. Which we can't accept as a party. Mr. Bayraktutan must take a two-minute stand on the grounds of taunting Mr. Baluken to correct his claims and to avoid misunderstanding.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0416par0418	I couldn't agree more. There's no such thing. Mr. Flagtutan has no such intention. Mr. Flagtutan, make a statement at your place. You already said you didn't mean anything by it. Get into the system, Mr. Flagtutan, I'll give you my word. By the way, Mr. Barracks is yours?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0419par0422	I'm not a Traveler. He'll say, Mr. Barracka.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0420par0423	I'd like to make a clear statement... with my name on the board of the meeting with our Prime Minister... and a misunderstanding...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0416par0424	I'll give you a minute... Yes, let's make a promise to Mr. Flagtutan first. Mr. Flagtutan, please.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0421par0429	Thank you, Mr. President. There was talk about Sur and Cizre. I didn't mean any mass. I described Artvin as this: In the streets of Artvin, Artvin is a republic city, and once again, Gazi Mustafa Kemal is the city of Ataturk. We like our flag, we don't discuss republic values.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0422par0431	Like all cities.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0423par0432	Like all cities.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0421par0433	All the cities are, but when I say Artvini, I'm not saying it's not the others, so let me correct it. All the cities love Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. We, Artvinians, never discuss the values of the republic... from the Parliament of Ataturk. In our cities, there is no opposition to the state...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0424par0434	It's against the state, for God's sake!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0425par0435	But you're legitimizing it, is that even possible?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0421par0436	...the fires don't open, there's no terrorist groups, we love the republic and the Ataturk, there's nothing wrong with us. I want to express it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0424par0437	The thing about Cerattepe is that it's against the state.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0426par0438	Mr. Barracks, please.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0427par0440	Thank you, Mr. President. At the invitation of our prime minister, we met with representatives of the political party and representatives of the NGO in Artvin. Our meeting has been very helpful. In that meeting, it was a very useful discussion to learn from government officials and our Prime Minister that our government had no understanding of listening to the sensitivities of the people of Artvin, and on the other hand, that our government had no idea how to pursue Artvin. What our President means here is that illegal organizations and extremist left-wing organisations who want to infiltrate the reactions of those people in Artvin have done. And on the other hand, when PKK sympathizers arrived, Mr. Uður was even annoyed that they were there because we didn't want them to hurt Artvin as much as they hurt the Kurdish people. For him, it is not the people of Artvin.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0426par0442	Thank you, Mr. Barracks. 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 I) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014 In turn, it belongs to Isparta MP İrfan Bakr. Mr. Copper, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0428par0490	Mr. President, I salute and cherish all my friends and fellow citizens who have been working on preparing the 2016 Central Management Budget Law bill and watching us on their screens. I wish God's mercy on our fallen soldiers today and patience on their families. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. All state institutions are of particular importance, of course, but we all need to be well aware and sensitive about the importance of the State Water Affairs General Directorate in the country's economy, agriculture, social life and natural life. State Waterworks is one of the most radical institutions in our country with an estimated 11 billion-dollar investment budget, branded on many projects, from flood water, from dams to ponds. Another thing that matters at least as much as the DSI is DSI personnel. The rights of the DSI personnel must be reconfigured as soon as possible. For economic reasons, technical staff constantly leave, causing the DSI to lose blood. As in all institutions, the DSI also employs subcontractors in cleaning, security, driver, and qualified staff positions. These friends of ours, working on billion-dollar projects, are suffering like any subcontractor. It is imperative that the work of these workers be determined and put on the staff as soon as possible. We're constantly talking about HESECs. HES projects have to be sensitive to environment and nature, with a sense of agricultural irrigation, drinking and drinking water and conservation of natural life. It is especially important that the HES (HES) on the western side of our country are converted into pump-storage HESEs, and the plans for the new HES (HES) to be planned with the wind and solar power plants are stored. State Water Affairs has transferred most of its facilities to watering units, cooperatives, villages, and municipalities. If the irrigation troops fail to pay for their contribution to the closed system, the decision of parliament will be handed over to the state's private administration. Many irrigation unions have made a decree of annulment to be transferred to the province's private administration. However, the requirement is that the troops be debt-free in order for the transfer process to take place. I'm calling from this bench: Do you think it's possible that in a country where energy costs are so high that the farmer can't make money, these troops are in debt free? How long are you going to keep quiet about this? At this point, I think that the problem should be solved in a system where one percent of the cost is attended by the state. The state-owned cost would be to be repaid in 50 years, not 25 years. As the irrigation season approaches, maintenance repairs must begin immediately. If the solution is not produced, the land will not be irrigated, and the problems of our farmers, who are already struggling with high input costs, will suffer a great deal of damage by adding watering to their problems. There is uncertainty in the situation of the staff as well as the annulments. It is also important that all subcontractors who were taken into their possession after the privatisation of TEDAS (TEDAS) and all subcontractors who had been discharged have been transferred to the staff or assigned to other institutions. The situation of underground irrigation co-ops is no different. When the province's private administration is free of charge, the repayment period of the DSI's irrigation grid costs, which is 15 years, must be increased back to 30 years. Dear lawmakers, the issue of irrigation is vital; it is directly concerned with the citizen's work, vaccine, bread. Let the citizen water his field in time so he can make a living. When the troops can't water, the manufacturer will be badly affected. The government has to produce radical solutions. The investments in irrigation systems are beyond the power of both citizens and troops. It's clear that the networks that are now being used for forty-fifty years can't be produced. Remember, you can farm ecologically without fertilizer, without medicine, but you can't do without water. So we need to accelerate the transition to modern irrigation systems. A step must be taken to support watering troops and cooperatives at 30 per cent affected by the height of energy costs in our country, and to reduce the energy VAT to 1 per cent. Dear lawmakers, the debt to the units' energy distribution companies has become unrefundable. Reconstructions under water management without strengthening institutional structures will lead to a major shortage of solutions to these debts. For this to happen, legal arrangements must be made by the state, supported by renewable energy systems such as the wind and the sun, to wipe out the interest of troops and watering co-ops, and to reduce the price of energy they use in the taxi, to produce the energy they use under agricultural support. We, the Republican People's Party, are in favor of minimizing any entry used by the farmer to a minimum. It is clear that if we fail to support our small farmers, we will not be able to prevent migration from village to city. Since 2002, the agricultural sector's employment contribution has declined from 34.9 per cent to 20.4 per cent. As a result, the city's centers grew rapidly, some of our villages almost had no residents. Congressmans, I'd like to mention the Water Law. In the bill, watering troops and cooperatives are not enough space. However, about 64 per cent of the country's water supply is used in agriculture. Watering troops and co-ops are also the most important representative of farmers who use agricultural irrigation, and must take part in the planning of water management at all times. Another issue is the matter of the escaped well. What we expect from the new Water Law is an arrangement where illegal wells can be recorded, and water wells can be opened, and underground water pollution and extreme water attraction can be avoided. The failure of irrigation troops and co-ops to operate due to their debts encourages the citizen to open an illegal well. Although it is known that drilling wells are forbidden within the irrigation grounds, our citizens are opening a well out of desperation. So instead of banning it, we need to come up with a solution. Another application that opens the way for escape wells is to close the basins' drilling permit. By the decision of the Council of Ministers, the plugging of agricultural counters has been postponed until April 2, 2016. However, DSI, executive companies and manufacturers faced difficulties in the timers. As well as the cost of the counters, there should be more practical, lower cost systems on the agenda, as well as protection from the land, theft and assembly are a problem. As a result, it is important for the DSI General Directorate to come up with solutions that will make it easier, not difficult for a citizen. Of course, when these projects are being produced, the environment and nature must be given maximum care. We, the Republican People's Party, will always contribute to policies that do not harm nature and the environment, and we will always say your wrongs. As I end my words, I thank all those who have worked at the budget talks, and wish our country well, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0429par0509	Thank you, Mr. Copper. Now it's time for Edirne MP Erdin Bircan. Mr. Bircan, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0430par0514	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the General Directorate of Meteorology. I salute the High Council. Although meteorology is an institution with rotating capital and advertising revenues, it is an institution that does not share it with its employees. The employees of the institution, which has previously been removed from property compensations, cannot receive aviation compensation, which is their rights. I would especially like to request that the work be done to end the victims of corporate employees. The weather comes to mind when it's called meteorology. And when I say the weather, I immediately think of the dirty air of our Keashan. Dear friends, according to official measurements by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Turkey's dirtiest air is unfortunately located in the Keşan district of Edirne. In this regard, public health is also in grave danger. In our non-gas district, the proportion of sulfur dioxide rises from time to time to 2.740. It is more than 9 floors above the upper borders of the United States of America and 2 floors above Turkey's standards. No further work is being done for the air of Keşan. In the air, 2.5 per cent in carcinogen particles and 10 per cent in particulates are far above Turkey's standards and very dangerous. Air pollution in Keşan is chronic, and unfortunately, it will cause major health problems. There's air pollution in our area, but there's no water pollution? Unfortunately, we're having a big problem with that, too. When we talk about pollution today, everyone thinks of teenagers. Ergene, a river that swam and fished until the 90s, began to become severely polluted after the 90s. Ergene, a symbol of a period of Thracian agricultural irrigation, was unfortunately a symbol of river pollution in our country today. The pollution of the adolescent is therefore the biggest problem of Thrace. Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu said that before 2011, our goal was to clear Ergene River in 2014. Later, he claimed that Ergene would run clean in 2015. And Minister of Health Muezzinoglu said in a statement in 2013 that two years later, we would all fish in Ergene. He said, "We will all fish in Ergene." And, Minister, you claimed that you would swim in 2015 at Ergene. What is it, dear friends? Even to search for the body of a brother who committed suicide, divers dressed in special clothes are unfortunately unable to get into Ergene, now from chemical waste.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0431par0520	We do all the decontamination facilities.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0430par0521	It's been a year since these deadlines, and now I believe Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary, I thought Teene was a piece of cake. What happened to getting cleaned up better than Halic?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0431par0522	I'll answer, but we did 11 of the 13 treatment facilities when you were gonna do it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0430par0523	Please... yes, we did. But first let's clean the chemical there. Right now, divers can't get in, officially, they can't even stick their finger in, it's a cancer field.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0431par0524	We made these investments.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0430par0525	What did you do, which one did you work, which one did you run? The contractors you gave all of them to are wrong. Every chance I get...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0432par0526	Mr. Secretary, let's not interfere. Mr. Bircan, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0433par0527	Mr. President, time's up, but time's up.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0430par0528	Friends, the problem with Ergene is that it's being cleaned... you're polluting Longöpru, Meric. And Saros Bay.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0434par0529	Can you tell me who built the long bridge water treatment plant?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0430par0530	What you're going to do, what you call a charge, is very different. You will sink Marmara, and you will sink Marmara.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0434par0531	I'm asking you a question, who built the long bridge treatment facility?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0430par0532	Divers are currently unable to enter the Long Bridge, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0435par0533	Mr. Minister, Mr. Bircan, let's not talk mutually, let's address the General Assembly, Mr. Secretary, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0430par0534	Anyway, as a result, the water has rotted in Ergene, the mosquito is not living now, Minister. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Minister, while I've found you, there's also the Lighting Dam of our Long Bridge. You tried to build a dam that would water 522,000 acres, but this dam is over. You say, it's over. They say it's over. Yeah, he ran out of trunks, but he didn't run out of water. It's over. Such a perception is created, it's not over. What your State Water Affairs Regional Manager says is that if the world's best contractors come, if the contractor comes, this place won't be finished for five or six years. But you're still creating perceptions.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0436par0537	The dam is over, the dam. Isn't the dam over?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0430par0538	Yeah, it's not over. You consider a dam without running water a dam? He's out of infrastructure, he says five or six years. He says he's your regional manager, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0436par0539	The dam's over.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0437par0540	Minister, no cross talk.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0430par0541	Well, that's nice. Look, you can ask. Which means it didn't happen.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0436par0542	Lighter Dam's over, watering continues.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0437par0543	Minister, don't pick on me.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0438par0544	Sir, after the conversation, you can have a cup of tea outside and have a chat with him. Please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0439par0546	Yes, Mr. Secretary, how wonderful! Good, good! Mr. Secretary, the dam is finished because it's finished. You can't say that. The dam won't stop.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0440par0548	It's still watering.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0439par0549	Friends, again, I would like to give you an example from Keşan. Although the Bay of Saros is a tourist destination, the quarry is being built and already being built. We don't know why the Ministry of Environment agreed to it yesterday, and the Ministry of Tourism gave an unfathomable positive opinion. Let them come to Mejidiye, Erikli, and Saros, and not one man will sign here. 300 meters across the sea are now being built into stone furnaces, 300 meters. Let them come and see and the sea is leaving. Because of the excesses of the Meric River, there are no minutes or hours to explain the persecution of our citizens. One city is flooded every winter, three times every winter, four times, Minister.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0440par0551	Canal Edirne...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0439par0552	Yeah, yeah. My call to you, Minister, is to defend the forest, not the Cerattepe massacre, but the forest. Come, defend the trees, not the quarry. It's not hydroelectric plants, it's thermal and nuclear... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...do not defend the arenas, but the nature. Defend the green, not the roads in the Black Sea. We, the Edirnes, thank you for the exuberance. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0441par0559	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the last speaker is Cırklareli MP Turabi Kayan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Kayan, come in. Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0442par0563	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on the budget of the Turkish Water Institute. I salute the High Council with love and respect. Before I begin my words, I offer my condolences to our soldiers who died in a treacherous attack on Mardin Dargezit, God willing, to their families, and to our entire nation. In addition, March 3rd has brought important developments in our history for our nation, and this is where I celebrate the Parliament of that time. The removal of the Caliphate, the removal of the Shariya and the Housekeeping, the removal of the power of military power and the removal of the Tevhid-i Tedrisat Act... Dear friends, Mr. Secretary has given the Agriculture Commission a breakfast and has shown us the arrangements for this breakfast. As I saw those procedures, I wondered if we were living in Turkey, or is the Minister talking about another country? I was worried, and I asked him at the time. There is the Ergene River in Thrace. The Ergene River divides Thrace, and from one end to the other is about 250 kilometers. This river is spreading poison right now, but that's not what you're showing us. I said that. I'll show you guys, here's what's happening today with Ergene. Manavgat Tea has more debi than tea, but this debi pours out poison, both in the most faithful lands of Thrace, and as our friend Erdin just said, flowing to the Gulf, poisoning the Gulf. Dear friends, water is life, it gives life, it gives life to plants, it gives life to all living things. Do we appreciate this water, keep it healthy, protect it best, and we have serious concerns about it? The water used to be pulled from 100 feet under the ground today from 300 meters to 400 meters in my area. It's sad that there are businesses that are going to bring this water back to the ground after it's contaminated. Most of them pour this water into the Ergene River. The river of Ergene is not only polluting the Aegean Sea, it is not only polluting the Gulf of Saros, it is polluting the bottom of the Ergene River, it is polluting the bottom of its bed, because the water that leaks out of its bed also poisons the waters beneath it. Dear friends, as you know, on one side of Thracian Plain is the Ergene River, and on the other side is the Istranca Mountains, a forest area of about 200km from Istanbul to the border with Bulgaria. The structure of this region has changed, the soil structure has changed, and the soil is not absorbable, especially because of the quarry that has been given to the allies in this area recently. Because of that, the rains are being sucked down, feeding the underground waters, not feeding them, causing the floods to burst. Let me give you an example. The largest source of water in Thrace, the source of boiling water, has dropped 50 per cent since nearly 14 years. It's the largest and the sweetest source of water. Thanks to this water supply, beets and tripe were being harvested, and today, there was no more tripe or beet planting. The stones from the quarry here are made by exploding dynamite. The stones obtained by dynamite cause the tremor to disrupt the geologic structure underground, creating cracks. The water that goes to these cracks has lost its current bed, and it does not belong to Thracian (Trakya), just to the mountains of Istraca (Istranca), which is being done all over Turkey. Businesses that are horny and think nothing but profit, unfortunately, have caused trouble for the country. Dear friends, in the Aegean region, and in the Inner Anatolian region, it is twofold beneath the water. The floors below these two are fresh water. We take this fresh water and water our fields. When we keep watering the fields, water evaporates over the ground. Steaming water leaves salt in its place, which will eventually lead to desertification. For him, we need to use the water above ground best, not the water beneath the ground. All the developed countries in the world don't draw an ounce of water from the ground. They store that water in the best possible way underground, so that the resources can go back to the way they were. We pull under the ground, and we flood by not watching over the water above the ground. We're trying to drain these waters with collectors, especially the Sea of Marmara, and the Aegean, where we can clean the waters of the Ergene River and put them in its bed and get them watered by farmers. And it is not enough that ye have defiled Ergene, and the basin of Thrace; but now we are polluting the Sea of Marmara, and the Aegean Sea. Tomorrow, when we desecrate the Aegean Sea, you're polluting my water. We'll apply to international institutions and receive punishment from here. So, I'm warning you right now, not through the collector, but by cleaning it, by purifying it, by putting it in your bed is the healthiest way. We advise them to do that. Also, there are HEES on the creeks, my friends. I don't know what we're gonna say to these guys. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My tongue means mascara, but my manners don't allow it, and I can't say it. Dear friends, I'm going to show you more than Ergene. Here you go. (CHP clapping in rows) People with their mouth and nose closed because they can't stand the smell. Mr. Secretary, you're laughing.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0443par0579	He's a diver, diver!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0442par0580	Yes, in the same way...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0444par0581	Mr. Kayan, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0442par0582	You see, here, valued lawmakers, the divers can't come in and search for a man who's missing in Ergene. Mr. Secretary, this is for your information. I give you all love and respect.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0445par0586	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0446par0587	Congressman, who built the treatment facilities of Cırklareli, Pınarhisar, Visa, Babaeski, Lüleburgaz? It belongs to us.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit05spe0445par0588	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0445par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume our sixth round of round talks with the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Act. The commission is here. The government is here. Now, the words for the groups were completed, and the first word for the individuals is in favor of Silver House Congressman Jahan Pektaş. Mr. Pekstone, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0447par0009	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the budget in question. I salute you all. Before I begin my remarks, I wish Allah's mercy to Gen. Emrah Şahine, Petty Officer Abdil Kadir Çelik, and Specialist Mehmet Karadal, and to all our martyrs, who were originally killed in the conflict with members of the separatist terrorist organization in Dargenit district of Mardin province. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. In the period of the EC PARTI administrations, there were major reforms in health, education, transport, energy supply, irrigation projects, supply of drinking water, strengthening local governments, developing democratic rights and so on, and a number of our country's chronic problems have been brought to sound and permanent solutions. I'd like to share with you some of the issues relating to the Forestry and Water Affairs Ministry, which operates very important studies and brings great projects to our country, which I once served. This Ministry is fighting forest fires on one side and floods on the other. In fact, great achievements have been made in this regard. In the background of this success, there is a strong and dynamic understanding of governance that makes very important investments and co-ordinates the cooperation between institutions. The Forest General Directorate is using the most advanced technologies in fighting fire, and it is getting stronger every day in the direction of tools, equipment and equipment. Our meteorological General Directorate has played a major role in preventing fires by setting up meteorological radar and observation stations all over our country, informing the Forest Service of position and momentary meteorological data. The State Water Affairs General Directorate has been effective in providing water for fire-responsive vehicles with dams and ponds that it has built, while the fires are under control without growing. It is the work of cooperation and co-ordination that reduces the time of fire from 40 minutes to 15 minutes and reduces the amount of burn per fire from about 4 hectares to 1.5 hectares. The dams and ponds that have been built serve as a lifeline in combating floods. To give an example, the Plains of Aydın Menderes were subject to floods every year and economic losses of tens of millions of dollars. With the construction of the Adnan Menderes Dam in China, the floods ended, preventing both economic losses and environmental destruction. To oppose the construction of the dams would also be to approve of the environmental catastrophes that will occur with floods. Prior to the EC PARTI rulings, dams and irrigation projects were being costing high numbers. Close to all of DSI's major projects, foreign partnerships were made by providing foreign loans; the cost of the project was placed in front of our nation as a heavy invoice, along with loan repayment and interest. Many projects planned with binary protocols have been removed from the scope of our country's debt burden of 45 billion dollars. The Yusufli Dam, which is one of these projects, was planned to be done with a French partner, would have cost $2 billion if it had been done, except for discovery increases, credit costs and interest payments, but when the protocol was cancelled, it was tendered to local companies at 486m euros, and the cost was reduced to 1-quarters of the price. The Şanliurfa Plain Watering Project, which began in 2001, was built with an Israeli partnership. Construction costs 14,000 dollars per hectare per hectare of this work using state-of-the-art technology. Using the same technology -- including the SCADA system -- the cost of watering Antalya Korkeli, which was started in 2012, despite difficult geography and ground conditions, is only $3,500 per hectare. The production times of projects have been shortened and costs have been reduced. All of these are the most concrete manifestations of the AK PARTY's policy on national axis. That is the native. That is the nationality. TO those who claim that the EC PARTY cannot rule the country, this nation gives its answer in every election. I'm giving these numbers so the next generation knows, and they'll be noted in history. The architect of this great transformation and revolutionary transformation in our country over the past thirteen years is no doubt our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Our Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu continues his transformation move. Mr. Veysel Eroglu, the first name to come to mind, is a chance for our country. I wish our budget of 2016 to be prosperous, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0448par0022	Thank you, Mr. Pekstone. Congressmans, now it's the government's turn to speak. On behalf of the government, three respected ministers will take their word, respectively. Minister of Customs and Trade Mr. Bulent Tüfenkci, 25 minutes; Minister of Energy and Resources Mr. Berat Colonelrak, 25 minutes; Minister of Forest and Water Affairs Mr. Veysel Eroglu, they will speak for 30 minutes. The first word on behalf of the government belongs to our Minister of Customs and Trade, Mr. Bkent Tüfenkci. Mr. Tüfenkci, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 25 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0449par0030	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today, I ask all of our fallen soldiers and all of our martyrs for mercy from the Lord God, and immediate healing for the wounded. I'm here to present the Ministry of Customs and Trade budget as part of the Fiscal Year Budget Bill 2016 and to inform you of its activities, its goals. Our ministry regulates all aspects of domestic trade and all flow of foreign trade through customs. As the Ministry of Customs and Trade, from domestic trade to foreign trade, from customs to logistical centers, from trafficking to resuscitation to the economy, from trade and artists to cooperatives, from consumer rights to market control and control, we have taken on important powers and tasks in many areas. Our priorities as a ministry are to facilitate legal trade, to fight illegal trade more effectively, reduce bureaucratic procedures stemming from customs transactions, to minimise transaction costs, to increase the competitiveness of our trade acquaintances in domestic and foreign trade, thus making our country an easier and safer trading centre. We focused our work on projects and activities based on electronic systems, which speed up border crossings so that all operations can be completed as quickly and as reliable as possible. In 2015, there were 8 million 303,275 vehicles from all our gates, 113 million 481,318 passengers entering and exiting. Through our customs, in 2015, we also collected 84 billion,851 million liras, which correspond to 20.82 per cent of our country's central government tax revenues. In 2015, our 69,330 firms exported and our 77,077 companies exported and totaled a total of 351 billion dollars in foreign trade volumes. Today our country is exporting to 220 countries. In 2002, when we exported over $1 billion, we exported over $1 billion in 31 products in 2015. In 2002, the number of countries we exported over $1 billion increased from 8 to 32. In 2002, we had five cities exporting over $1 billion, and today we had 15 cities. We open Turkey's doors to the world, especially when someone is writing scenarios to close Turkey with holes in its shell. We're renovating our customs doors based on increased foreign trade volumes, needs and demands, and we're turning them into full automation. Recent examples of this are our Dilici and Crazy Aktaş customs doors. In 2016, we will serve the Ringed Customs Directorate and the Esendere Customs Gate. During the following period, we also rebuild the customs doors of Sarp, Hamzabeyli, Gürbulak, Kapaköy and Dereköy. In 2015, we also launched the Office of Gurbulak Customs and Trade District; Bolu, Kütahya, Iğdır, Nüğde, Aktaş Customs Administration. In addition, we have established Adıyaman, Sinop, Army Giresun Airport, Amasian Customs Administration. As the ministry, our goal is to reduce costs in terms of all customs transactions, eliminate stationery, reduce processing time and ensure that the object reaches its final destination as soon as possible. As we side with the Common Transit Convention, where 35 countries are connected with electronic networks, our movers can pass about 5,500km from the east of our country to the west of Europe with a single declaration. With our single-stop work, we'd like to minimize recordings and control procedures in six or seven phases currently at our black border doors. We want to save time and cost in many simplified and accelerated ways, especially with the ease and collateral advantages, in which we can perform export and import transactions at their own facility, with the sanctioned application. The Single Window, also included in the 64th Government Action Plan, stipulates that all required documents be provided at one location and that the transactions be completed with a single-point application. We have integrated 14 institutions and organizations into the Single Window System. As part of our 2016 Action Plan, we are also leading the electronic truck around the world with technical infrastructure for the truck system. In this framework, we launched e-Trip pilot projects with Iran and Georgia. We aim to ensure a safe exchange of data between E-TR projects and national customs systems and other shareholders, and to enable regular, secure, and rapid transfer of goods between countries. For the first time in the world, we've also established inter-tourage data sharing in the Triad System with this project. Recently, we have also implemented the Pre-Existing Passenger Information Project in our country to subject passenger information, which is a sensitive topic for the world's leading countries, to be subject to pre-travel risk analysis. Before arrival, risk assessments are being taken before travel and passenger information are conducted. The vehicle's approval documents have been transferred to electronic media, the transfer notification forms have been transferred into the electronic environment, allowing the value control to be more effective, and the application to be added in the paper environment has been removed. All persons entering our country in private vehicles, especially those living abroad, are allowed to enter the dorm without waiting, with a preliminary statement for personal vehicles brought under tourist conveniences. For this reason, a preliminary statement was created in which individuals recorded information about themselves and their vehicles prior to their travel and were checked by the duty officer when they arrived at the customs gate. The construction of the container and Harbor Tracking System aims to monitor all transactions under the customs administration's electronic system, from the arrival of the stuff entering our country to the ports until it leaves the ports. Through the system, customs audits will increase efficiency, with operations accelerating at the port, the firms will be given the time and cost advantage. With the renovation of our customs labs, the work and processing processes in customs labs are being accelerated, and, as with other customs procedures, all operations in the paper environment are being processed gradually into electronic environments in customs labs. The Laboratory Analysis and Reporting Programme, which was created for this purpose, with the LARA (LARA), is conducted electronically, with the registered customs declaration, the product, and all transactions starting with the lab's love. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as a result of our ministry's work in customs, customs transactions have been significantly reduced, while customs transactions of the merchant have been completed faster, saving time and cost. In 2002, three per cent of export statements were processed in the first minute, while in 2015, the rate increased to 64 per cent. The number of declarations completed in the first half-hour was 35 per cent in 2002, while the rate reached 81 per cent in 2015. We see that the average processing period of an export declaration has been significantly shortened compared to the data from 2015 to 2002. In 2002, the transactions of an export statement were approximately ten hours and ten minutes, while it is now two hours and thirty-seven minutes. In 2015, 56 per cent of the customs declaration was processed in the first eight hours and 71 per cent of the transactions were completed within the first 24 hours, and their goods were delivered. Mr. President and valued lawmakers, our aim, in accordance with our foreign policy priorities, is to make our country one of the number of trade centres in which customs services and trade are made easier and safer, to follow active policy on bilateral regional and multilateral international platforms. Due to the negativity in Syria, security measures are at the highest level in our border crossings to this country. We've reinforced our Syrian gates with personnel reinforcements and technical equipment. In this context, objects are fully subject to physical examinations, and they are allowed to enter the country using biometric data and facial scans. We have techs, density measurers, and radioactive matter control systems that allow us to see where the eye can't or can't see. We also use our expert detector dogs on explosive materials at these doors. After developments with Russia, we also contributed as Ministry to measures taken by our government so that our exporters would not be victims. At this point, we also want to say that we can't think of changing the land of this country's land with any commercial activity. We are also contributing to the development of institutional capacities of countries in the region in accordance with our foreign policy. In this scope, in order to fight trafficking more effectively, we sign the 63 customs areas of co-operation and mutual administrative aid agreements that allow direct co-operation with our ministry's other country's customs administrations and the legal infrastructure of the bilateral administrative and technical co-operation. We also continue our technical assistance activities towards Balkan countries, Islamic countries and African countries, particularly Turkish republics. In order to revive the historic Silk Road, our Ministry played a leading role in the launch of the Silk Road initiative between customs administrations along the Silk Road route. With this initiative launched by our Ministry in 2008, the key role of customs administrations in facilitating trade is to take into account the co-operation of customs transactions at the border gates and to be targeted for the use of historical Silk Road to be preferable to trade. Again, the Kervansaray Project, which was carried out by our country's proposal, includes a route along the Silk Road and actions and project facilities aimed at determining the border crossings to work on this route, and then eliminating the elements that prevent border crossings. Mr. President, our efforts in the fight against smuggling, one of the main duties of our ministry, continue effectively and decisively. While fighting smuggling, we also take care that any deviation in our country's economic goals is not slowing down at the speed of trade flow. By closely monitoring technological developments, we're developing both technical devices and systems used in the fight against trafficking as quality and quantity. The vehicle and container speed-scan system was activated for the first time in our country at Izmit Halfca Harbor. The number of X-ray scanning systems has been increased by the vehicle and container scanning systems established at Dilcu and Crazy Aktaş Customs Fields and Tekirdağ Asiaport Harbor. On the other hand, the Habur Customs Field has been established in the area, providing a type of search system, especially used to detect explosives and ammunition. Again, the installation of six luggage-scanners in the last year as part of strengthening our technical capacity, including three units of Dilici, Mad Aktaş Customs Field. Facial recognition systems are used on our black doors. The installation of 18 mobile baggage systems began within March. The purchase of an additional 6,000 mobile units of vehicle tracking vehicles via satellites has been completed and our mobile unit number has been increased to 9.250. In 2014-2015, 10 patrol boats and 25 black patrol cars were taken. Dear friends, our Command Control Center has been completely upgraded to state-of-the-art. In our centre, the fight against smuggling is monitored live for 24 hours, with significant transit points, density, and risky areas. With all this technical infrastructure and these investments in our human resources in 2015...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0450par0064	Mr. Secretary, read it live, it's alive! We're sleepy, Mr. Secretary. Read a little higher.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0449par0065	Well, I could tell you a joke if you want.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0451par0066	Don't interfere, Mr. Sertel, please...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0452par0067	Madam Secretary, we're listening...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0453par0068	If you're sleepy, go home!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0454par0069	Look, no one's listening. No one listens, they sleep one-sided.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0453par0070	We're listening very well.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0455par0071	Mr. Secretary, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0456par0072	You guys go back to sleep, we'll be fine.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0457par0073	Say it a little higher, Mr. Minister, we don't hear it, so we don't hear it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0456par0074	In 2015, a 70 per cent increase from the previous year to 2 billion 688 million dollars worth of trafficking has been uncovered. As a result of our ministry's work...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0458par0075	We're listening, we're listening. Don't make any noise.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0459par0076	We're listening to the Minister.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0456par0077	Look how you woke up. ...the total amount of drug capture reached 2.7 tonnes in 2015. About half that amount was found by drug-detector dogs, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0460par0079	Okay.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0456par0080	We also have detector dogs at the point of preventing trafficking with drugs, weapons, tea, tobacco. If you'd like, we can show them to our dog training center, we can host them. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Dear friends, anti-fuel smuggling efforts continue in the coordination of our Ministry. In 2014, 48,952 tonnes of fuel trafficking worth 157.5 million euros was discovered, reaching 825m euros in 2015. The effective work of the special team on anti-fuel trafficking has resulted in significant results in the emergence of abuses, especially through false invoices, documents, warrants, and studies have resulted in some $850m worth of irregularity. In 2015, a total of $88.1m worth of goods was destroyed by our General Directorate of Purchasing Services. In 2015, the income of return capital companies is 187.5 million TL. Mr. President and valued lawmakers, as the Ministry of Customs and Trade, we aim to resolve the problems of our people, our companies, our shareholders, by acting with all the actors in the market to create policies that will bring our country to the future, to reduce bureaucracy and improve the result-oriented working culture. In this context, we aim to work with the merchant man, to develop strategic cooperation with them, to produce values together. We also focus on the creation and determination of regulations and practices through mutual interaction and negotiations on this platform, where our shareholders are present. As the ministry, we believe in the importance of a strong cooperation of the public and private sector, and we set our policies in this framework. Our goal is to have many of our global companies, branded and important in the world markets. We also want our small and medium-sized businesses to take important roles in employment and development in particular. In this scope, the new Turkish Trade Law, which took effect on 1 July 2012, and its secondary regulations, again the MERSIS system for simplification of systems and operations, organisation and other transactions, for the first time in the world, have been able to join its anonymous corporate partners in electronics. The law on the regulation of retail trade and the retail sector have also received a long-awaited bill. The secondary legislation of the law is under our Ministry as of this date. Again, the Convention on Shopping Centres came into effect on February 26, 2016, filling in the gap in this area. We'll sign the licensed storage system within our Ministry, especially with our Ministry of Agriculture, and hopefully a new era of licensed storage during this period, as well as the addition of TMO (TMO) into this system. However, we'll soon be implementing the stock market. In particular, we established the Hal Recording System, which will register vegetables and fruits. This system is seen by 37,385 real and corporate people in 2015... and by 2015, it has increased by twice that number. Through this system, we have implemented the product tag that allows our citizens to know where and when the vegetables and fruits they consume were produced. We also implemented the new consumer law, which brought revolutionary rights to our consumers, on 28 May 2014. 23 of the secondary arrangements were carried out, and it was published in the Official Gazette. Dear friends, as the Ministry, our goal is to ensure that all consumer products in the domestic market and in the import process are protected by human health, life and property safety and 100 per cent secure. Our ministry inspected 2.6 million products in 2015. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In 2011, the product of our ministry's responsibility... Just a minute, sir...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0461par0093	Mr. Secretary, complete, please. I didn't give anyone an extension, so finish it. Let's do what's fair. Complete your words.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0456par0094	In 2011, at 38.6 per cent of products in our ministry's responsibilities, the number was reduced to 2.9 per cent when we reached 2015. Dear friends, of course, the deadline is short, and we were going to say a lot about the tradesmen, but the next time...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0461par0097	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0456par0098	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0461par0100	Thank you very much, thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0462par0101	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0461par0102	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0462par0103	I'd like a quick word from you on my behalf.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0461par0104	All right, we'll give you a minute and a short promise. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0462par0108	Mr. President, while Mr. Secretary is speaking, I've compiled the information on the border crossings at the Syrian border, and I'd like to share it with the General Assembly. From our border crossings with Syria now, Mr. President, the Karkamis Gate, which is in Antwerp, is next door to Cerablus, in Syria, where it opens, and Cerablus has ISIS control in Cerablus, and this door is open. The door to Syria's Sapep, in Hatay Yayladağ, is closed, I think there's a regime there. Hatay Cilvegöz is opening to Syria Babel Air. There are Ahar-ush Damascus and Al Qaeda gangs. In the church, the Pioneer Gate opens to Azez, and there are the El Nusra gangs. There is a Kamişlı Gate in Nusaybin. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's a regime and it's open.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0463par0112	Complete it, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0462par0113	I'm completing it, Mr. President. The gate of Şenyurt in Mardin is closed in Kurds' hands. The border of Ceylanpınar and Serekaniya in Şanlıurfa is closed in Kurdish hands. There is also a door to Kobani, and it is closed. So when we look at the trade situation of these doors, we see that the doors to the gangs are open again, the doors to the Kurds are closed. Is there a commercial logic to this, or is it a reflection of the pro-gang anti-Kurdish policy that's being followed by foreign policy? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0464par0116	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0465par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President may be mistaken, but we have only two doors open to Syria now - the Cilve-Eye and the Pioneer. Her eyes are also kept open for humanitarian aid, the pioneer's just open, the others closed.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0464par0121	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0466par0122	Mr. President, all of my actual information is correct, clear. Conspiracy with gangs... 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 I) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0467par0166	The second word for the government is for Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Mr. Berat Collarak. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Colonel, your time is 25 minutes. I'm starting the clock. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0468par0171	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish you all the best wishes that our budget for the Ministry of 2016 be good for our nation and our country. As the year 2015 passed by global unrest and shrinking in the field, we continued to grow in line with our goals as Turkey. So much so that we've made this growth despite the major regional crises around us, amongst the crises of global energy markets. In particular, we have seen Russia's intervention in Ukraine, the actions of our major partner in trade, the actions of the DAESS terrorist organization in Iraq, and the impact of the internal war in Syria, which is breaking the hearts of mankind every day, the energy cooperation in the region and supply security of the region. In a circle of fire like this, thank God we have met the energy of our country and our nation, provided the energy they need. These processes have increased the responsibility of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, especially at the point of supply security, which clearly reveals the burden on our shoulders. The situation and tensions of the region seem difficult to resolve in the near future. On the other hand, twice as much energy demand over the next decade is an obvious fact. However, we never give up on our growing goals in the field of energy that Turkey needs to capture the growth it desires. We aim to meet this growth with a competitive, transparent, consumer-protective and environmental sustainability approach, by reducing this growth, by reducing external dependency, by making the maximum use of our domestic and renewable resources. Mr. President, valuable representatives, our ministry is trying to implement important projects and investments in the field of energy with our institutions and private sector co-operation in this strategy as our ministry determines the strategy for providing the needed energy supplies. In this framework, I would like to talk about our sensitivities that guide us to our strategy, before we move on to the areas that prioritize our supply security strategy. We all know our country isn't a rich country in energy resources. In the next ten years, within the framework of Turkey's growth at this rate, energy is also at the head of areas where it should invest the most, you know. We believe that the price of energy, which is the number one raw ingredient in the industry, will accelerate the investments, and the growth that depends on it. In this scope, we need a minimum of $100 billion investment in the energy sector over the next decade to meet the desired growth figures, to achieve Turkey's goals in the middle term. It is imperative that we provide a reliable, transparent investment environment in the national and international business world, in the energy field, to ensure these investments. With all the arrangements we've made since 2002, investments we've encouraged and projects we've implemented, we've expanded Turkey's energy capacity many times. Here, I want to share some numbers with all of you; you know, numbers don't lie: our country's primary energy demand occurred in 2014 in what we call 123.9 million TEPs -- that's equivalent. In the primary energy demand, the share of natural gas is 32.5 per cent; the share of coal is 29.2 per cent; the share of oil is 28.5 per cent; the share of hydroelectric energy is 2.8%. The share of non-hydraulic renewable energy sources was around 6.7 per cent and other sources around 0.3. The distribution of our primary energy demand, according to sectors, was in the online sector of 30 per cent, 24 per cent in the housing and service sector, 23 per cent in the industry, 19 per cent in the industry, and 4 per cent in other sectors. On the way to 2023, we're talking about an energy demand, a primary energy demand, which will reach a minimum of 218 million TEP, depending on this rate of growth. By the time we get to power, our rate of increase in the last 13 years has increased by 5.5 percent yearly growth. So, what did we do to pay for it? In 2002, our consumption of 132.6 billion kilowatts increased by about twice as much by 2015, reaching 264 billion kilowatts. Electricity production, which was 129 billion kilowatts in 2002, increased by 100 per cent, reaching 259.7 billion kilowatts in 2015. 37.8 per cent of this production comes from natural gas, 28.4 per cent from coal, 25.8 per cent from hydropower, 4.4 per cent from wind and 3.6 per cent from other sources. In August 2015, the score demand reached 43,289 megawatts and broke the record of the republic's history. At the end of January 2016, the power power board, which was 31,846 megawatts, reached 73,427 megawatts, with an increase of 131 per cent. Mr. President, valuable representatives, it's very clear that we're facing a very important need for investment when we think that our energy demand will increase by about twofold over the next ten years. We're dealing with these investments -- as I mentioned in the beginning -- with a strategy that reduces external dependence, uses domestic and renewable resources to a maximum extent, and does not become dependent on foreign technology. I'd like to stress that our greatest sensitivity here is environmental sensitivity. As in previous times, the integration of investments into the environment in our power will be one of our most important priorities in the future. In this context, we will implement filters in the newest technology to minimise the negative impact on the environment in all investments, especially the new thermal plants we will be implementing. We'll continue to implement the work so that our current operating plants can move quickly into these technologies. We will contribute to the development of our country, and we will use our natural resources to the full, and we will invest in a peaceful Turkey, no one will doubt it. (EC PARTY) We are already continuing to run our investments in the framework of environmental sensitivity of EU standards, which are already subject to what we call the EPA environmental impact assessment process. With the environment, another sensitivity will be a matter of workers' health and safety. We have implemented a series of arrangements to improve the working conditions and resources of all our workers, especially our mine workers. Despite our arrangements, of course, we can't say that the point is enough for us. In this framework, in the coming period, especially in the mines, we will bring legal regulations to our House, which will further increase business security. At this point, I'd like to talk about one or two of the arrangements that we're going to bring to the agenda of the House in the coming period. The law of coal. Our current Mining Law contains more issues related to license management. As in the developed countries, we will consider coal within a separate law, and our work on it continues in our Ministry. Methane drainage. It's a matter of one-on-one interest in the flu, the main cause of the mining catastrophes in our country. By the way, I hereby dedicate 263 miners who were killed in the disaster of the grey in Zonguldak, March 3, 1992.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0469par0183	Finally.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0468par0184	On this occasion, the main reason for the mining accidents in our country is that we will also bring the economy of our country into the framework of the flu explosions, before and during production the coal production of methane gas, to drain methane drainage. The carotid and data bank. In this regard, we will see the mining carotids as a national entity and conduct the work on the mining data bank and bring it to Parliament with its legal arrangement. Now, in this context, I can tell you that we're going to get to a much better point in both environmental awareness and sensitivity and labor health and safety. The projects we target in the field of energy are long-term projects, not projects that will take place very quickly from today to tomorrow. It's strategic projects that need patience, which should be held by political authorities. In this context, accelerating major energy investments that we started during the AK PARTI administrations will be our most important agenda in the near period of time. In this framework, the TANAP project, our first and second nuclear plants, the LNG terminals, the natural gas storage at the point of capacity increase, all of which will be among our most important agendas at this time. As part of our ministry's new-term strategy, the issue of supply security is of great importance. You know, with recent regional developments, public concerns about our gas supply security. In this regard, at the very beginning of the process, we expressed that we did not expect the trade of natural gas and oil to be carried out by international agreements and to be affected by momentary crisis disputes. As of today, especially at the time of intense winter conditions, our consumption has been very intense, not only for heating purposes, but at the gas point that we use heavily in electricity consumption, but we have not experienced any shortages of natural gas supply and supply in our country. We should not only consider this in the context of crisis and disagreements. In any case, we continue to work on all scenarios, A, B, C, D, to create a prepared and supplied infrastructure. In order to ensure the diversity of resources in the natural gas that we are net importers, we continue without slowing down the steps of energy diplomacy. From November 24th, when our government was formed, from November 24th to the day of the day, we have tightened our talks with all the natural gas suppliers in our region, with the players in the region, and carried out every thorough, detailed work on steps towards energy supply security; let our nation be a customer. Our supply security strategy has an important place to diversify, and another issue that we care about as much as we care about is our storage capacity. At the point of natural gas storage capacity in 2011, the construction of our Salt Lake Natural Gas Storage Facility, which began in 2015 after its funding was released, is being continued at full speed. With its first phase in 2017 and its second phase in 2020, we will continue to increase our natural gas storage capacity in Turkey at full speed. We continue our investments to have a wider gas storage capacity by starting their work today -- as of 2021 -- in the area where the current, existing TPAO (TPAO) in Silivri is using it to store natural gas. We continue simultaneously outside the pipe gas to expand the world's capacity to store and gas the system, especially in the area of LNG, which has become increasingly important in the recent period. Apart from the gas we've received from the pipeline, we're continuing to increase the importance of the LNG system every day in recent years, at the point of expanding the capacity of the existing two LNG terminals in our Turkey and making new ones -- let our people be customers. Another issue that we care about in terms of energy supply security is the advantage of our country's geopolitical position in the international oil and gas trade. In particular, we intend to become the intersection and distribution point of natural gas pipelines that pass through the region. In this scope, we assess not only Turkey, but the cooperation of all countries in the region, especially the European Union, in the natural gas trade, in the interest of our country and its priorities. Second source in supply security with natural gas, you know, electricity. We continue our work at full speed to ensure that our citizens get this resource at its highest quality and cheapest on the supply of electricity. At the power supply point, we saw 2016 as an important year. We've started an important study in relation to recent cuts. As you know, electricity transmissions and transport infrastructure in Turkey are very old as a lifetime. We're talking 30 to 40 years of electrical grid system infrastructure. This investment, made according to the terms of its time, has reached 73,000 megawatts as of today, and the system no longer provides sufficient service at the point of service to its board power. Therefore, we agreed with the private sector to renovate Turkey's infrastructure by 2020, with the new budget, which we have upgraded by about 15 to 2020, as of today, to attract the new infrastructure to 75 to 80 per cent bands. As part of this five-year investment move, we will invest 18 quadrillion TL infrastructure with 18 billion euros in the framework of modernisation of Turkey's electricity infrastructure. We will also implement a series of mechanisms to measure customer satisfaction in terms of the monitoring of investments and the quality of the services provided by distribution companies. We will closely monitor and operate all the mechanisms in the legislation, which do not make investments and improvements in these areas, while failing to meet the standards required for customer satisfaction. Mr. President, the other thing we care about in terms of supply safety is increasing the share of domestic and renewable resources in electricity production. The new power plants and capacities taken into operation in 2015 are 4.288 megawatts. In 2002, we had 300 power power generation plants in our country, and in 2016 it reached 1.566. The distribution of existing plants: 561 hydroelectrics, 235 natural gasses, 114 winds, 36 coals, 21 geothermals and 156 other resource types. We aim to move further forward the point in the field of renewable energy within the framework of our energy strategy in 2016. We aim to implement the plan, which prioritizes domestic production with a more competitive structure of much more renewable energy facilities. This plan will increase both the production of renewable energy and the price of electricity produced in this area will be reduced and the technology used to be domestic production. We have also traveled a significant distance from 2002 to today in the field of energy efficiency. We've made significant investments and improvements at the point of increasing energy efficiency. In the future, we have accelerated the European Union's relationship with the European Union to reach the desired point of energy savings and efficiency by launching an awareness move within the framework of the European Union's efficiency standards, along with universities, business and civil society. Another important issue of our energy strategy is nuclear power plants, you know. As an accepted technology around the world, nuclear energy is a resource that we care about at the point of meeting our growing energy demand. As it is known, the process has begun and continues for our first plant in Akkuyu. On the other hand, the process continues at Sinop Nuclear Plant. Nuclear investments in our country's energy strategy will also provide for the growing sector, while also play an important role in diversifying resources. At the same time, the fact that we're late for the nuclear energy field gives us another advantage. Unlike many plants around the world, these plants will be built in our country, they are in a better position than many plants in the world, both for safety and efficiency, at the point where the technology of the 2000s is contained. Mr. President, our country has a healthy investment climate for both domestic and international investors in the field of energy. Turkey has great investment potential with its growing energy sector as well as its position in providing supply security for Europe. Of course, as in energy, we need to have some conditions to host large-scale investments. The most important thing about this is stability. The stability that has been going on for nearly 14 years has also helped to develop economic stability in our country. Maybe that's how we got the right position against global economic recession, continued to grow, and inflation continued in single digits. At this point, as of mid- 2014, the problem with DAESS, which is directly beyond the border, and the beginning of the decline of oil prices in the same period, has put global oil companies in the region, both in the world economy and in the world. In 2015, despite the crises in our region, investments in our country continued without road accidents. In March, the groundbreaking ceremony was held at Kars. The project, you know, continues very successfully in the framework of the proposed project calendar, and in 2018, hopefully, we're thinking of activating the first gas to Turkey, the first capacity of 6 billion cubic metres. For nearly two years, especially for the last two years, we have managed to preserve the investment climate in Turkey, despite these turmoil in our region, which has started for six years, but has increased over the past two years. In order to maintain that, energy will continue to be one of the key topics in our strategy. With the work done, the renewable share of the power of the electricity power board in Turkey, the share of the private sector, the share of domestic resources has increased by every factor in 13 years, and I don't want to get into all of them one by one.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0470par0203	Outer addiction has also increased, by the way.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0468par0204	At the liberalisation point, many privatisations led to an increase in efficiency. The privatisation of the electric distribution zones has opened the way for increased customer satisfaction, liberalisation of the market. At the point of liberalisation of the market, we created the energy exchange, and as of last year, we activated the EPIASH. The EPDK in the sector's regulator regulator function successfully demonstrated our two-way approach to the market by performing all of these functions while performing a busy shift. We support investors for the continuity of large and long-term investments, while we continue to protect the last user, the consumer. In the future, we will maintain this approach and continue to strengthen the economic infrastructure of the energy sector in our country. As part of the 2016 budget, I tried to share our goals and our Ministry's strategies in the amount of time it took. We are not only responsible for the budget, but for every penny that enters the energy sector. We are both trying to leave this area fair, customer satisfaction priority, and a more viable environment for future generations, a more prosperous society, while Turkey is growing to secure its futures. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Finally, I must point out that for a strong and prosperous Turkey, investments in energy are essential. Before I put my words to rest, there was a lot going on in the context of our conversation about today's talks. A lot of positive, negative, constructive, non-profit criticism has come up. I want to make it very clear, very clear, very clear to our people from here. In many ways, many things can be said about many things, but in our time of power, we have always been the first to be neither deceived nor deceived. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, in this context, I always say this. For example, one of the most important issues that comes up in public, often in the media, is the cost of this distribution of electricity. A secret raise, a 100 percent raise! Actually, it's very simple to see computation and methodology about this if we go to our EPDK website, but I'm going to talk about pen and pen here. What is this? There are prices in Turkey besides the price of active energy: retail sales service, meter reading, missing fugitive price, delivery price, distribution price. All of this is not in our time of power. Look, the price has been taken since the sale of electricity in our country. Now, let's put that aside. Then there's the energy fund. Should I tell you if this came during our reign? Bag number 3291 in 1986 is a price set in the law. There's a TRT share, they say: the TRT share is a price created by Law 3093 in 1984, which we reduced to 3.5 percent during our rule in 2003, and it's useful for our people to know. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The last one is electricity and gas consumption tax. It is a price created in 1981 in the Law on City Insurance No. 2464. What's happening today? What happened today, at the legislature point last year, as part of the legal arrangement that we've taken into our lives, is that these prices that I've just counted are an arrangement at the point where retail sales service costs, meter readings, missing fugitives, transmissions and distribution costs are all combined in one pen.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0471par0215	Mr. Secretary, you're running out of time, you haven't said a word to the miners.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0468par0217	Today, Turkey has a 6.8% adjustment increase.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0471par0218	Mr. Secretary, the miners are dying. How will you prevent deaths? Mr. Secretary, you're running out of time.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0472par0219	Mr. Sertel, please do not interfere, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0468par0220	In fact, in Turkey...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0471par0221	How will you prevent the deaths of the miners?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0472par0222	Let's not interfere, Mr. Sertel, please.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0468par0223	... there's something very important, what is it?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0471par0224	You said the law of slavery, but you didn't, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0468par0225	In 2002, 200 kilowatts of a minimum waged household in Turkey...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0473par0226	You didn't even apologize for Soma.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0471par0227	You didn't mention Soma, Mr. Secretary. You haven't expressed your condolences to Soma.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0468par0228	Look, this is a very important, 200 kilowatt electricity-consuming minimum wage family that paid 20 percent for the electricity bill in 2002.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0473par0229	He didn't take it in his mouth; there is not a word from Soma, nor from Ermenek.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0471par0230	You haven't said a word from Ermenek, from Soma.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0468par0231	He spent 20 percent of his minimum wage on 200 kilowatts of electricity. Today, do you know what that rate is? It's 6.3 percent.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0474par0233	▪ All the mine workers said.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0471par0234	No, he just said Zonguldak.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0468par0235	Shall I order the natural gas? See, in 2002, the minimum wage share of natural gas -- the average family paid -- was 32.2% -- is 11.5 percent today.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0471par0237	Ask the miners for mercy.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0475par0238	Mr. Colonel, finish your words, please. If you'd like, we could take some time off from the other Minister.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0468par0239	Today, Turkey is both developing and investing, renovating its infrastructure as well as increasing electricity energy, natural gas energy, knowledge energy investments are happening with the private sector, supporting liberalisation of the market. We're talking nuclear energy. You know, some of our friends have been talking to the cold countries in the north, and they call it clean energy, that energy, that energy, right? I've said that in the budget, today, and I'm saying it here. Look, guys, there are 442 nuclear plants in the world, more than 100 digits in construction, going on. They say: "There is no one in the world. " France is supplying more than 70 per cent of electricity with nuclear power. There is a nuclear power plant within 60 to 70 kilometers of Paris, and there is a nuclear plant within 100 or so kilometers of New York. We'll have information so we can have opinions, but if we talk without knowledge, we'll only talk about ignorance. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Turkey will build nuclear power plants, build coal plants, build hydropower plants, but just like we've been doing for thirteen years, we'll fight to the end of the responsibility we've been carrying on both the environment and the community and the nation. We're going to take this country to the level of murky civilization and Turkey to the power of the AK PARTI...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0476par0244	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Colonel, if you'd like me to turn on the microphone, we can take some time off from the other Minister himself, if he sees fit.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0468par0245	Mr. President, we have a lot to talk about.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0476par0246	If you're going to complete it, we can take a few minutes from Mr. Eroglu.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0477par0247	Why are you pushing me, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0468par0248	I'm completing it. I wish our government's budget, our ministry's budget, would be good with these thoughts...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0478par0250	Is dying in the mines on the outside? You didn't even say sorry, not even a word of condolences. You did not remember Soma, neither did you remember Ermenek, nor did you remember.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0468par0251	...we will continue to serve this nation by working much more and much less with the power of the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0479par0253	Thank you, Mr. Colonel.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0480par0254	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0479par0255	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0480par0256	We have a request on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0479par0257	Do you have a brief request for your group?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0480par0258	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0479par0259	Who?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0480par0260	Master Erhan.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0479par0261	I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0481par0262	You guys should've clapped standing up, why didn't you get up? Why didn't you get up? He'll make the next list, he'll make the list of MPs, he'll draw all of you, he'll draw all of you who don't stand up, he'll draw all of you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0479par0264	Congressmans, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0482par0267	Thank you. In 2015, the minister said the consumption of electricity energy increased nearly twice as much as 2002.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0483par0269	We want the same applause for our Minister of the Forest, the same applause.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0484par0270	More.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0485par0271	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0486par0272	In 2015, Mr. Minister said the consumption of electricity energy increased twice as much as in 2002, which he said was a big success, and the AKP Group applauded enthusiastically. There's no point in saying something that's in the normal flow of life is a trick, especially not to the Minister of Energy. Why? Because I'm going to read you a number from this report, which is an extension of the Council of Ministers' decision. Let's look at the difference between the past 13 years and 2015-2002. Electric energy production increased 94.7 per cent in 2015, according to 2002. In 2002 it increased 149 per cent compared to the thirteen years before that, compared to 1989. So this is where you have to see who's doing well. It's not a trick, it's energy supply security.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0485par0274	Thank you, you've made your point, you've made your point.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0486par0275	Mr. President, it's too short.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0487par0276	There's more, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0485par0277	Guys, wrap it up, wrap it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0488par0279	We need to look at the share of local resources here in particular. For example -- because I don't have a lot of numbers back there, I'm just going to say 1998 -- the total amount of energy produced by hydroelectrics went down to 16% in 2014 in 98. So, you have to look at this. I think it would be wise for the Minister to use such numbers.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0485par0280	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0489par0281	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0485par0282	Mr. Baluken, you...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0489par0283	We'd like to make a brief statement on behalf of our General Board of Directors.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0485par0284	I'll make you a very short promise. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0489par0286	Mr. Filiz Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0485par0287	Here, just a minute. We got more questions and answers, guys.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0490par0290	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to offer my condolences to the families of all the workers we lost in the job killings. Every year, the families of workers and lawyers seeking justice take out the Almanac of Business Murders. Here, in the work killings, here, in the dams, in the constructions, in the mines -- just like in Soma, in Ermenek -- are the stories of the dead workers, the cases, the processes. Unfortunately, 1,700 workers have lost their lives, and this year they are friends of the Almanac of Business Murders of 2015. I would like to present this book to all the other ministers, especially Mr. Energy and Natural Resources Minister. They'll take care of it and take care of it themselves. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0491par0294	Thank you. We pray for God's mercy to all workers who have lost their lives.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0492par0296	The Minister should have spoken; he should have remembered Ermenek. He should have remembered Soma. 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 I) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0493par0340	The last word for the government belongs to Mr. Veysel Eroglu, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0494par0342	Bravo, Master! The king of dams.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0493par0343	Mr. Eroglu, we've only used one minute of your time for 30 minutes; I'll give you twenty-nine minutes of justice. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0345	Mr. President, I have made a promise, of course, to the budget bill of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs in 2016. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0496par0346	But the Minister of Energy will make the list, and you're clapping for nothing. I'll tell you from here because he'll do it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0493par0347	Congressmans, please... the preacher is on the stand, so let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0348	Be saints like water, sir, be saints like water. I'll have some water for you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0497par0350	Teacher, you're an epic writer in the past, in the past. They screwed up the BSKI, you wrote the epic.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0351	Thank you. Now, sir, of course, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs is one of the largest investment ministers. Our Ministry, in fact, is doing a lot of service, a lot of work, a lot of enthusiasm, a lot of work, a lot of work, from treeing to erosion control to water work, meteorology, the preservation of biological diversity, the conservation of nature. Thank God. I thank all members of the Ministry on this matter, even the commissions that draft the budget bill, and all the groups that have spoken here before, our representatives. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, constructive criticism and advice will certainly be taken into consideration, of course, thank you, but I have to say, it's not enough to just criticize, it's a compliment. Here our friends work day and night without looking out for my workforce, we have no such thing as overtime, even the motto of our Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs is running with time. Thank God. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, I'll start with forestry, if you like. Look, dear friends, precious MPs, Turkey is really making records in the wooding. As forest presence in the world is dwindling in many countries, the forest presence in Turkey is increasing in both the field and the wood fortune, I proudly express it. In the last 12 years, 1.5 million hectares have increased, so 15 million per cent, and the wood fortune, when we bought it, was 1,200 million, and it has now risen to 1,600 million cubic metres. Really, it's an event to be proud of. We're mobilising. Now it's said that if you look at Turkey's statistical records -- if anyone wants to give them the email address, I'll send them -- I've got the value I'm getting from TUİK, where there's a lot of saplings planted, the records of this state, in the end, we've met with 3 billion 500 million and 34 plants. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) That's really something. Sir, look, there's a growing wealth of wood and we're supplying all our industry and citizens with wood and wood. We also provided 20 million cubic metres of wood for our industry. And that's really an admirable thing, so it's up from 7 million cubic meters to 20 million cubic meters, and I want to say that, too. What about plant production? We know in the past how many saplings were produced, but we produced 333 million saplings last year. We even planted some of it ourselves, and we distribute some of it to all public institutions and organizations, all municipalities, even schools, civil society organizations, which means that Turkey is green. Some friends may not appreciate it, but look, when OECD Secretary General Angel Gurria arrived four years ago, he said: "Turkey is the world leader under the control of deforestation and erosion." I didn't say it, he said it. I'm just saying this so you'll be proud, nothing more. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Besides, valuable lawmakers, look, every three years there's a World Forestry Summit, forum. This was constantly being done in America for 27 years at the headquarters of the United Nations in New York. I told him about the work that was done in Turkey when I left. Despite the opposition of a country in the General Assembly -- you predict that country -- all countries in the world in front of us, the World Forestry Forum and its summit should be held in Turkey in 2013. They voted unanimously, and we did it in Turkey. The United Nations... after all, it's not just that...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0498par0363	Then why is Melih bringing the trees from Italy?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0364	If you'll excuse me, I listened to you, I never answered. And you know, like climate change conferences, like COP, and...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0499par0366	Well, Mr. Secretary, we're stuck on this account, how many trees fall to a square meter?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0500par0367	Minister, send them to Yalova. They cut down the trees in Yalova. Send them to Yalova.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0368	Of course, I'll send it to them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] All countries demanded the 12th Conference of the United Nations against Desertization, but because of our success, the United Nations said, "Let this be done in Turkey." It was held in Ankara on October 12th and 24th 2015. 195 countries participated, and dear friends, at this conference, of course, voted, was elected President of Turkey. We are now the President of the United Nations against Desertization as Turkey. I'm now the President of the Period of the United Nations. That's the difference, that's the difference, that's the difference. You fix it when it's wrong.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0501par0371	Burn, burn, Mr. Secretary, burn!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0372	Sir, look, we're setting up urban forests, 133 of them. The places of worship have increased. There used to be no beekeepers in the woods. We've embraced beekeepers and we're setting up honey forests. So far, we've established 249 honey forests. And I'll tell you this: some friends might say: "Ya, you're a waterman, what do you know about the forest?" But we've made a great historical transformation in the forest. How? In the past, before 2011, the Forest General Directorate was only in forest areas, so, trees were struggling with planting, maintenance and fire. But in 2011, the Director-General of the Forest was now serving all over Turkey. Now we're planting roadsides, schoolyards, hospital courtyards, open spaces, all over the place. Thank God. Because in our culture, if you have a seedling, plant your seedling if you know there will be an apocalypse tomorrow. That's the difference. Dear brothers, look, we've raised the forest service too much. The forest service used to live in buildings like this, and this multistory building, because it was built unsubstantiated to the earthquake -- before us -- was not inhabited. We destroyed it and built the greatest public building in Turkey, that's the difference. Those buildings, look, they're great buildings. That's because that's how we protect our guy, and I'm telling you, it's not just that it's increased, it's increased rights of equity six times, the salaries have increased six times as much. Here's the government that thinks about the officer, thinks about the worker, and I want to emphasize that. Other than that, of course, there were no action plans before. Sir, I'm a planner; I teach these classes in college, friends know. We're planning 26 actions right now. You know who, what, when he's gonna do it, what he's got to do about it. Almond action plan, walnut action plan, truffle, gum action plan, gum tree, peanut pine, burial, and that's 26. Every year, at the end of the year -- three months, six months -- we're sure to see this account, and I want to point out that we've exceeded our goals.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0502par0376	Don't you dare say anything about a plan, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0503par0377	They spray, Mr. Secretary, they spray.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0378	Other than that, the former mines are rehabilitating, even green belting around dams and ponds, protecting the flood in the upper basins, the DSI, the Forest General Directorate, and the General Directorate for Anti-Destroying and Erosioning, which is how it works to protect the flood in the upper basins.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0504par0379	Mr. Secretary, then why is there floods everywhere in Turkey?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0380	And, of course, we also came to a point where there was never a hand in it. Medical...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0504par0381	The Black Sea, Ankara, everywhere.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0382	Look, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0504par0383	There's a flood, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0384	Yeah, just hear me out. We don't have time, or I'll tell you by morning.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0504par0385	There's floods everywhere, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0386	I'll tell you all about it in the morning, that's how I am.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0505par0387	He's taking Izmir. He's taking Izmir. Hand over there, too, Hajji. Hand over Izmir, too, Hajji.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0506par0388	Don't burn it. You burned Turkey, don't burn Izmir.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0389	I don't know about the food I had yesterday, but I know it by heart at the Ilisu Dam or any dam. Now, as a result, look, the action plans continue. In our time, we supported forest villagers for $11.5 billion -- about 12 quadrillion. Besides, right now, the government has entered into the action plan. Dear lawmakers, we're building 5,000 revenue-producing forests in 5,000 villages. That's what you think of the citizen. Keep a man alive so the government can live. Here we are, everything is for the nation. We are acting on its motto. And we even do this: in the corrupt forest area near the neighborhood in the nearest village or capital cities, where we plant, where we have olives, walnuts, almonds, pistachio pines, where we spend forty-nine years drawing lots in front of everyone, taking care of them for three years, taking care of them for themselves. We do it everywhere, we'll keep doing it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0507par0393	What do you do with the parcel and the parcel?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0394	As for the fires... there's no need to mention the fires. See the report of Mediterranean countries, Turkey is the most successful country. In fact, there have been records since 1947, and even though it was a dry year last year, we actually survived the least fire. And I'll tell you this: we're reforestationing the burning forest area within a year. Anyone who claims otherwise, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0507par0395	Hodja, it's worthless after burning it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0396	We're not giving it away for any other reason. So I want to emphasize this, too.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0508par0397	You're cutting down the trees of the plaintish villagers in İzmir.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0398	We've come a long way in the struggle for erosion. We're putting terraces all over the place. In the past, 500 million tons of land flowed into the sea, into the lakes, and now we've reduced it to 168 million tons. Hopefully, we'll improve by doing a much better study. Let me give you a quick piece of information about protected areas. We work in all cities, in 81 cities, on biodiversity. In fact, we've prepared natural tourism action plans. Other than that, protected areas have increased by 100 percent in the past, we're protecting wetlands. And we're taking care of historical sites. You know, we've committed all the martyrdoms in Gallipoli Historical National Park, where we can't pass through. We've established what we call the Çanakkale Design Centre. We don't let you go through the chanakkale, we don't let you go through it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, in Sakarya the Pole, you know, there was a statue and a rough construction with it. The Council of Ministers has made the necessary decisions, and our Ministry has been enjoined. And there we built a great Battle of Sakarya Square, the historic national park. His construction is under way as well, sir. We're also setting up a great Integration Center for Sarikamis, Nenehatun, Mount Kop, General Command and Integrated National Parks. I invite you, please... on the night of August 25th, which connects August 26th to August 26th, our glorious army, with the movement of Ataturk and his comrades, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, marched towards Koppe, and on the morning of August 26th, he ordered our heroic army to attack. After all, on the morning of August 26th, we have prepared a beautiful site in Sinanpaşa Plains as a park of nature, and we're setting up a magnificent Influence Center in it. Mr. Presidents, we invite you, it's all of our pride.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0509par0404	We'll come to remember our apocalypse, Mr. Secretary, you invite us.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0405	We'll be waiting for you on August 26, 2016, okay, sir?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0509par0406	We will, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0407	Other than that, of course, I'd like to talk a little bit about water management in particular. In the past, sir, management wasn't taken at the basin. You're a major, and I'm even teaching a doctor's degree, and now we're doing all the planning based on the river basin. Right now, 25 basins are running out of plans, and I want to give you the good news. Of course, by the way, Turkey's largest investor agency is the State Water Affairs General Directorate. Really, State Waterworks is working hard and heads up institutions our country is proud of, such as the Forest Service. Sir, so far, we've opened 3,107 giant facilities...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0510par0411	What facility is this? We haven't seen any of them.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0412	...in the service of our nation. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The dam is 320. Look, we've written an epic story about a thousand ponds and watering in a thousand days, it's really...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0510par0413	There's no facility.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0414	I'm giving you one more good news right now, Mr. Deputys, if you have any demands, please let me know that you all request...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0511par0415	Which one are you doing, Mr. Secretary? Don't cut down the trees. We say, you cut down the trees, don't!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0416	Of course, you are the deputy of the nation, and of course it is our duty to fulfill your demands.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0512par0417	Tens of thousands of figs were cut off in the light, figs!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0418	After all, now I give you the good news: We promise to finish 1,071 ponds and irrigation facilities by the end of 2019; I promise you from here to my people, thank God.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0513par0420	Are you going to clean up the teenager, the teenager?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0421	Well, I'm asking you, for God's sake, I mean, in cities, there was no water in many cities. Look, was there water in Şırnak, in Mardin, in Kızıltepe, in Church?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0514par0422	Teacher, don't, were we dying of thirst? What happened to us? Don't do it, don't do it, don't do it!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0423	Yeah, one minute, give me a break, give me a break. Was there water in Istanbul, in İzmir? Oh, come on! In Afyonkarahisar...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0514par0425	Don't do it, don't do it! What were we drinking then?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0515par0426	No? We didn't have any thirst either in Izmir, we didn't have any thirst!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0427	Now, look, so far, my deputies, we've been planning...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0515par0428	In spite of you, we don't suffer from thirst.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0429	They didn't know they were going to be dehydrated in 2014. But, thank God, we've come up with a major action plan of 81. This is my residency. After all...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0516par0430	Minister, they thought they drank water to you, they're drinking water now!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0515par0431	You have nothing to do but cut off our water!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0432	Now, all the cities have water, and we've planned water needs, populations, water resources, all of them, we've come up with a big action plan, we've seen that there's no water in 76 cities so far. Mardin was troubled in the summer months, and on the other side was our Afyonkarahisar, Şırnakta, KarsESTa, Edirne. Edirne, my deputies, if we hadn't made those Jesus lines...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0517par0433	Edirne, you're in over your head!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0518par0434	Start the teenager, the teenager! Mr. Secretary of Youth!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0435	You know, when I was Director General of the DSI, the Mayor of Edirne had a heart attack then. Look, that's the problem, that's the thirst. So we said that water is civilization.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0518par0436	Edirne's water comes from underground water, Mr. Secretary! You don't hear teenagers!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0437	I'll get to that, don't worry. As a result, We gave water to all the cities. We are now happy to give additional water to 41 million citizens. Twenty-five million in construction. Of course, we don't have time, and I'm not going to say this, but we did the giant Jesus lines that actually ran through the car. So we brought the water from the damamran fountains in Van. It was a year and a half and a half, from a distance of 30 miles [48 km]. There are 115 kilometers in the Gördes Dam in Izmir, a tunnel, a huge Jesus line within two meters. There's the village of Veysel, where we built the Erfelek Dam, where we brought the water to Erfelek, Veysel village, and Sinop. I suppose, Mr. President, you appreciate it, so thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0518par0439	Mr. Secretary, Ergene, Ergene...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0440	Other than that, the irrigation...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0519par0441	Minister, you forgot Cyprus.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0442	Cyprus, of course, is a piece of cake for us. Thank God for the first time in the world we've brought water from the sea with a pipe, which is our honor, and the architect of this is our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0520par0444	Doesn't the Prime Minister have the right?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0445	But other countries began to ask for water, and the worst of it is for them... We now have the honor of bringing water to 1,700,000 people to Africa, but even more...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0521par0446	You've pleased the water and the people, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0447	Thank God. Other than that, we've written epics in irrigation. We have the pride of watering down about six and a half million acres, 65 million acres, but is that enough? Hopefully, by the end of 2019, 85 million acres... We promised to water this whole feasibility, economic watering area in Turkey. Look what we're doing with this purpose. Let me tell you about the GAP. All the drinking water problem has been solved.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0522par0449	The Gap is slow, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0450	No, now, he's going too fast, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0522par0451	Here we go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0452	Now, just so we're clear, the drinking water is done, 80 percent of the dams and ponds are finished. We have now completed 500,000 hectares of 1,88,000 hectares in irrigation, but the main channels are finished by 2019. For example, sir, from Şanlıurfa...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0523par0453	Mr. Minister, you're not finished, 2012 isn't, five or six years from now.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0454	Let it go, let it go, don't get excited, let it go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0523par0455	Trust me, it'll be over in five or six years, your regional manager says.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0456	Look, there's 225km of river from Şanlıurfa to Mardin, an artificial river, an artificial river, 225km.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0524par0457	Let's see if it's over, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0458	Don't get excited for a minute.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0524par0459	Let's locate him, Mr. Secretary, he's in position. Let's go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0460	Let's go, let's go. Now, just give me a minute, we don't have time, I'll go fast.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0525par0462	Mr. Secretary, come to Ergene.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0463	Now, sir, we're finishing it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0525par0464	Come to the teenager.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0526par0465	We also wait for Mudanya.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0466	KOP... just the other day we went to Iconium and opened 41 facilities with our Prime Minister. Hopefully, KOP ends at the end of 2019. DAP, DOC...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0527par0467	Is there anything from Tarayyabey to Zile?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0468	Now, hang on, there were areas projects that weren't there before -- the Mediterranean Development Project -- walking -- the Aegean Development Project, the Interior Anatolian, the East Black Sea Development Project, the West Black Sea, the Marmara Development Project...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0528par0469	Come to Thrace.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0470	...and Thrace. He's walking at TRAGEP.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0528par0472	Here we go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0473	I'll tell you. Don't get excited. Thrace was a forgotten region before us, we remembered Thrace, we remembered! My grandfather, there in Edirne -- you know -- was a martyr in the First Balkan War, so it is our duty to serve there. I'll tell you in a minute. I mean, as a result...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0529par0474	Next semester to Edirne, Mr. Secretary! Mr. Secretary, run from Edirne next term!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0475	Sir, other than that, we've finished the 1,909 creek corrections. We've written epics in HES. Currently, we have opened up nearly 500 ▪ hydropower plants and increased the production of 26 billion kilowatts to 91 billion kilowatts. I hope...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0530par0476	How many subsidiaries have you given away? They've all turned the corner. Fish are dead, fish.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0477	Fish don't die. We own fish, too, don't worry. We own the wildlife; we protect the fish, the cats, and the dog.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0531par0478	There are no fish in puberty.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0479	Sure, there's a lot to say, but let me tell you about meteorology. 1,400... look, there's never been an automatic measuring station before -- for God's sake, a problem with the Weather Service -- written by hand three times a day, and then three days later, he'd come to the station. Now, we've established a meteorological organization that entered the world's first 7 ▪.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0532par0480	Madam Secretary, we're the first three digits in the world. When did they drop it to seven?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0481	There's a 1,450 automatic weather station. There were no radar before, 16 weather radars... 78 weather stations at sea and 72 at the airport, especially air reporting systems. Let me make this very clear.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0533par0482	Minister, these people think meteorological balloons are UFOs!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0483	Now, sir, let me tell you about Hasankeyf. Hasankeyf is in our hands from Artuklu, from the Turks of Artuklu. I love Hasankeyf too. Look, the Ilisu Dam has been discussed before us, but the archaeological studies about it, the interest of historical artifacts were not considered, but we said... first, we started at the village of Ilisu. Ilisu Village was such a village, but we built villas there in this picture, the villagers are very pleased.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0534par0484	We don't want it, don't break history, don't build villas!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0485	Wait a minute, wait a minute, don't get excited.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0534par0486	Don't ruin it!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0487	Look, now, Hasankeyf... sir, I've already taken pictures of Hasankeyf. It's dated...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0534par0488	Mashallah!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0489	Ma'am, wait a minute, please, I didn't say anything to you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0535par0490	Don't interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0491	Don't interfere, if you'll listen.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0535par0492	Come in, Mr. Secretary, people are listening.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0493	The stones of Artuklı Bridge have been torn apart and made a slum. Look at this, this is Hasankeyf, but we're making Hasankeyf in this picture. If it isn't the most beautiful district in Turkey, come to me...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0536par0494	History is underwater, Mr. Secretary, history is underwater!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0537par0495	Three years from now, it'll be gone!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0496	It's not like that, it's not underwater, you've got it wrong. Look, elementary school, it was an ipstidai, it was amazing...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0538par0498	Is a building built in a historic city?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0499	Sir, the mosque... we're building the same mosque, here's the same mosque.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0538par0500	What kind of minister builds a building in a city like this, Mr. Secretary? Is that your understanding of history?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0501	Besides, look, there's a bunch of...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0539par0502	Mr. Secretary, you did SpongeBob, SpongeBob! Basement Castle...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0503	You're originally Batman, you know Hasankeyf, you don't have the right to speak.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0540par0504	You have the right to build a building, we have no right to speak, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0505	You know why? Because we're making this historic closed market in Hasankeyf. You mean there's more? That's it. [[AK PARTY APPLAUSE]] So, as a result, we're going to make a great district of Hasankeyf. And I'll tell you, they're not all underwater, see, that historic upper city, it's totally collapsing! Fortunately... thanks to the Ilisu Dam, we're investigating it. He was slipping all the way up. I'm a good engineer.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0541par0508	Well, will it be stopped by water?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0509	Give me a minute.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0541par0510	There is no such thing, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0511	Yes, I do. I'll send you the reports. Besides, all the historical artifacts that can be moved will be moved.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0542par0513	You can't carry it, you can't carry it, you can't carry it!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0514	In fact, an example of the world, all archaeological excavations, historical artifacts have been created, and now, you know, we're going to be able to save the Zeynel Bey Temple by shifting it with the most modern technology in the world, and it's been restored, and I want to make it very clear to you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0543par0515	Bravo, Master.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0542par0516	The jeans are too high, you can't carry them.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0517	Now, to Thrace, to Ergene.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0544par0518	Let's get to the teenager.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0519	I'd like to give you a special briefing, if you'll accept it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0545par0520	The cities are polluting, aren't they?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0546par0521	You'll have to take the delegation there, the delegation.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0522	Sir, it was the fourth day of the Festival of Sacrifice, when our President, Prime Minister, called me, where are you? Where are you, Veysel Hoxha?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0545par0524	Who's paying? You couldn't do the treatment plant.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0547par0525	Mr. Secretary, all municipalities have built the treatment facilities, all municipalities have done it, and they have done it within the framework of European Union projects.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0526	Mr. President, as Vice President of the CHP Group, you are a president I admire, and I will give you this. Look, right now, we just...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0548par0527	Mr. Secretary, the municipalities are doing the cleaning, they're doing the cleaning, you're lacking.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0528	Give me a minute.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0549par0529	They can't do it Hajji, you do it Hajji!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0548par0530	Izmir's a champion in decontamination, 54 purifications, 54.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0495par0531	Look, are the 40lareli, the Pinarhisar, the Visa, the Babaeski, the Lüleburgaz treatment facilities finished? Yeah.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0550par0532	It's all collapsed, all of it; they're not working.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0548par0533	Turkey has 604 decontaminations, 54 of them in İzmir.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0551par0534	Congressmans, please do not interfere. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0552par0536	On the other hand, have the Long Bridge and Keşan treatment facilities finished in Edirne? Now, in Tekirdağ, there is no Hayrabolu, Muratlı, Malkara...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0553par0537	Fifty-four of the 604 waste-water treatment plant is in İzmir.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0552par0538	...Saray's almost 99% out now, left Circeçeköy and Chorill.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0553par0539	I'm going to ask you about Gediz, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0552par0540	The project of 13 advanced biological treatment facilities -- which I'm the architect of, and I've even put the model project in my book, and I'll show it to anyone who wonders -- the most advanced process, the bardenpho process, we brought in biological nitrogen and phosphorus -- 99 percent decontaminating technologies, 13 of them.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0554par0541	Does it stay salty or not? Is the salt staying or not, Minister? How does he clean it?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0552par0542	Look, wait a minute... you're mixing it up, Congressman, wait a minute, you're mixing it up; you hit a very hard rock. Why? Now, I'll give you Edirne...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0555par0543	Teacher, they're experts!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0552par0544	You're the Edirne deputy, aren't you?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0556par0545	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0552par0546	For God's sake, look at this. There's nothing in Edirne. There's just names here. How many ponds, how many dams, how many creeks, how many reforms...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0557par0547	You can swim in puberty, come on.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0558par0548	Hodja, show 'em around, show 'em around, take 'em around, show 'em around.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0552par0549	Guys, if you could just send this to our deputy right now... we're on a tight schedule. Take a look at this note, for God's sake. Here, the dam is not finished. You said, "The dam of the lighter is finished, and we are offering it to be watered." Give him this and let him see.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0558par0550	Give me those, too.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0552par0551	This is a dam, a dam, not a pond. That's how we are. We do it, we do it, we do it, so people love us.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0558par0552	Hodja, they have sunk the BSKI, and you have saved the BSKI.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0559par0553	I hope you swim in puberty, Mr. Minister.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0552par0554	Hopefully, I'll come to Edirne, you'll see. Come, let us walk together in Edirne. Let's give him this, too.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0559par0556	Mr. Minister, I hope you can swim in Ergene. Inshallah, enter it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0552par0557	I hope so. Now, let me put it this way, dear friends, there are a few issues, but I want to say this is a very important thing. Until 2010, this was tendered, but in 13 years, only 35,200,000 euros were made, and only 48 cents... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, last, let me wrap it up and say thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0560par0561	Mr. Secretary, please... We're not running out of time. I'm opening it so you can collect your words. Gather your words, give them a salute.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0552par0562	But then, with the participation of all groups, they began to be given to the city municipalities, Istanbul, İzmir, Mersin, Mughla, many of the major cities I remember... 186 million dollars from the municipalities in six years, as well as the trees. So, as a result, no profit was made from the tenders. Türker Eroglu has nothing to do with it, and he has never tendered it to any firm. He's in the water products unit right now, and I'd like to stress that in particular. I'll answer to the others in writing. Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0561par0567	YOU wrote an epic in the past, you're a legend, Hajji. They screwed up, you saved them, Hajji.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0562par0568	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0563par0569	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0562par0570	Yes, Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0563par0571	Mr. President, during his speech, Mr. Secretary made a clear taunt, particularly about Hasankeyf, returning to our group, saying that you had no right to talk about Hasankeyf.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0562par0572	Now, Mr. Baluken, let's agree that for once there's no bullying of your group or your own. On the subject of public statements regarding Hasankeyf, I promise you a moment's notice, you make a statement, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0563par0573	Mr. President, no, no.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0562par0574	Or I'll give it to whoever speaks for the group. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0564par0576	Mr. President, I have the right to answer, don't I?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0565par0577	Here's the thing, Mr. President: Mr. Secretary, starting with the danger of a landslide with Hasankeyf, he gave some information to their technological work, and we gave him...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0562par0578	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0565par0579	Either you can't appreciate whether it's true or not.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0562par0580	No, I mean he gave me that information. You said it, and I'm confirming you, over.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0565par0581	Now, on that information, we're going to appeal...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0562par0582	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0565par0583	You have no right to talk about Hasankeyf.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0562par0584	Now, Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0565par0585	Now, as long as we as MPs can talk about anything...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0562par0586	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0565par0587	We would like to share the correct information about Hasankeyf, who we are particularly sensitive to, because of this bullying.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0562par0588	Okay, well, if you insist, fine, but I'll tell you what, Mr. Secretary's bullying came from your group. He responded to the taunt, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0565par0589	But a group does not have the right to speak.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0562par0590	He was picked on from his seat. I'll give you two minutes, but don't let another tease get in your way. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0565par0592	Ahmet Yıldırım.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0562par0593	Mr. Lightning, please come in. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0566par0597	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Secretary, you actually hit a hard rock. Look, I did my Ph.D. on Hasankeyf. Now, for God's sake, I ask all of you, can you boast about building skyscrapers on the historical peninsula in Istanbul? No. Can you boast about making a plaza for Konya Alaeddin?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0567par0600	Here's a book I sent, look at it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0568par0601	Look over there, over there. The minister sent a book, look over there.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0566par0602	Twelve thousand years of Hasankeyf, human heritage, world cultural treasure... can you boast of building buildings?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0567par0603	Congressman, take a look at the information there, and then...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0566par0604	A second issue: See, dear friends, the main rock and all the historical structures in Hasankeyf is a limestone stone that extends to hundreds of metres deep and is made up of calcium carbonate, and the most important feature of this calculus -- the lime stone -- starts to melt immediately in the reaction to water. There is no need for you to wait fifty years for the Ilisu Dam, which you will do for fifty years. Rest assured, Mr. Secretary, water for three years, open the dam doors for three years, and there's only molten piles of lime left. These are the cultural treasures that have been entrusted to us in human history. You showed me the buildings, Mr. Secretary. What happens if I don't look?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0567par0605	Look, look.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0566par0606	Can you, for God's sake, replace the Ancient Theatre with an AVM? Could there be a minister who boasts about it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0569par0607	They do, they do...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0567par0608	We don't plant malls.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0566par0609	For him, Hasankeyf is expecting from all of us as the relic of history: Hasankeyf is screaming. Don't cast a shadow, I don't want any more favors. Don't touch me. I don't want anything else. Hasankeyf is a twelve thousand-year-old scream. So let's not brag about the buildings that will be built there. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0570par0612	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0571par0613	Mr. President, in our Parliament after the elections on 3 November 2002 -- and I've been here ever since -- the first parliamentary inquiry to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was about the pollution of the Ergene basin. Since then, there's been a commission set up in the House. By lawmakers from our party and other opposition parties, there are more than 100 research proposals -- I believe -- in the Parliament's records on Ergene. However, Mr. Secretary, at the end of your 14 years of power, even the divers who drowned in the river couldn't get their hands on the river because of the pollution of the river, while the river's pollution, as everything else, the CHP has contaminated this river. You have to answer.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0570par0615	Here you go. I'll give you two minutes. Let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0572par0618	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers say all the water flowing to the Ergene River comes from the cities, Mr. Secretary. In about 70 percent of these cities, the decontamination facility was established through EU resources, and all of which were established by municipalities.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0573par0621	Don't throw it, don't throw it!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0572par0622	Mr. Minister, the Republican People's Party has contaminated Ergene because of its presence in the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0574par0623	Don't lie to me!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0573par0624	Which municipality?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0572par0625	Today, there are those treatment facilities, but Ergene is still flowing poison. There are 1,500 industries here, and about 90 percent of this industry is textile and paint industry. This dye industry is not only polluting Ergene, it is not only polluting Thrace, it is polluting Marmara, it is polluting the Aegean. I specifically tell the Minister that this project is not a project to be taken lightly, it is a project Turkey must address in the most serious way. Instead of handling this project in a healthy manner, to address municipalities, the Republican People's Party in some way means not to go after it in a very light way, he has no intention of going. I'll tell you why, I'll tell you why...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0573par0627	Not with words...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0572par0628	Because the AKP can't get votes from Thrace. To do so, he wants to pollute Ergene, and Thrace. No matter how dirty you are, you won't get votes from us, you won't get them, you won't get them, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0575par0631	We'll take Thrace.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0576par0632	Yeah, well, the public appreciates it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0577par0633	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0576par0634	Mr. Secretary, please come before you challenge a new taunt. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0577par0638	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, don't worry, I'm not picking on anyone, I'm telling the truth. There's a plan of action. Normally, 3 billion 200 million TL belongs to our Ministry. What have you got? All 13 of them, including the centipede, are being built by the DSI, the waste-water forward biodegradation plants of all 10,000 residents in Ergene. There's only two left, and that ends this year. On the other hand, an arrangement was brought to it by the Law of Reformed Industry, and the law was made. Your friend, of course, is polluting the industry.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0578par0641	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0577par0642	However, right now the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology has earmarked $800 million in loans, and there is a project in college with those who pray for it. They're in construction right now, and in the end, the cost of saving Ergene is $4 billion to the state, and I want to stress that in particular. It has nothing to do with the European Union, it's purely self-source. He's already had some loans from the European Union about the Lüleburgaz, but we received some of its resources from the Ministry when I was Minister of the Environmental Forest. Thus, the river reforms were almost over there. There's been wooding, erosion control, control of agricultural medicines, control of agricultural medicines. In fact, for industry, measurements were forced to be installed in the Ergene basin. It's also controlled by underground water. We're building all the dams and ponds. I don't want to waste your time. Let me just tell you, if there's anything missing, let me know and we'll do it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0579par0647	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0580par0648	Hey, did you clean up Ergene?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0581par0649	Minister, when are you going to swim?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0582par0650	May I speak according to Article 60, Mr. President? 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 I) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0583par0694	Yes, lawmakers, so the government's commitment demands have been met. On behalf of the individuals, the final statement is from İstanbul MP Erdal Atash. Here you are, Mr. Paperman. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0584par0699	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, every three areas we've assessed their budget, customs and trade, forest and water work...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0583par0700	Congressmans, the speaker is on the stand, so please don't disturb him, silence.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0584par0701	...energy and of course, the field of resources, both for our peoples and for our lives and for our lives, is still being carried out, unfortunately, by planning to destroy one of them, including our natural lives, the values created by the people and all the workers, including the budget, from the understanding that the current power has been going on so far -- including the past process. Today, with the same policy, three areas are being destroyed and the wrong policies are being continued with the same budget and the same economic approach, the same policy, which is largely interconnected and affecting our lives. What are these wrong policies? The interests of the masses, health care and other issues, without our natural habitats being cared for, are shaped on three areas of economic destruction for the interests of just a small capital division, and the public budgets and money are squandered in this area. In the last 20 years, the small manufacturer has all been bankrupted by wrong policies in customs and trade. 23,000 major businesses, which is a large monopoly, came to our geography after a customs and trade agreement, and then, after that, the one that entered our geography...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0585par0704	Mr. President, there's a lot of humming, so let's have some respect.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0586par0705	Congressmans, please stop humming. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0587par0707	...all the small manufacturers went bankrupt over the goods that moved to this country via customs. All of these crises in this geography, including the cash registers that were thrown out in 2000, have come to light as a result of customs policy and general economic policies. Again, foreign policy has implemented policies, such as war, occupation and so on, rather than making alliances with other countries, trade with them. Russia's plane is being shot down, its customs borders are closing; another problem with Armenia, another problem with Syria, another problem with Iraq, and, unfortunately, the struggle with friendship, brotherhood and perhaps democracy with the peoples in these countries can be fought, instead of continuing it, a tension and war policy is being continued here, and it's also managed to impact workers and all the other parts of the economy. $450 billion in internal and external debt. This is a product of our success in trade; it's growing, and it needs to be seen. The forest and waterworks are in the same situation, in this area -- it says that 1.5 million hectares of forest have been increased. (On the contrary, almost nothing has grown in this area except that the forest is significantly reduced, especially from the use of electricity and different sources of energy, so that there is a shortage of environmentalists in this area. On the contrary, the World Institute for Natural Resources also shows that 165,000 acres of land in Turkey have been significantly converted into a forestless area. The same is true of energy and, of course, resources. In this area, there are significant destructions, including HES (hes) and other issues. In particular, the Cerattepe issue stands before us today as an important reflection from our point of view as a major problem. Gold, copper games are being made, CED reports are being corrected by word games, and a policy is being implemented. The Governor, the Minister, the Director of the Forest, and so on, all of them have the policy of destroying this area for the benefit of a small capital group, regardless of the interests of human migration and agriculture, regardless of any health environment. And as the last thing, I would like to say that there is a policy in this particular area, especially for the Travel, that Cerattepe is not being integrated in this area, especially with the Gezi. It's a wrong policy. On the contrary, in our geography, if there had not been fighting in Bergama, Gezim, Cerattepe, and other areas, in Munzur and other areas, Hasankeyf and so on, these capital cuts and this government would have brought with them greater destruction. All our people should know that if there were no resistance for that tiny park in Gezil, there would be no resistance for Cerattepe today. It's our responsibility to unite all the struggles. In this framework, in this ongoing economic policy, with this budget and with that understanding, nothing can be created but destruction in this geography. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0588par0716	Thank you, Mr. Paperman. Mr. Altay, I believe you've made a request.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0589par0718	That's a short word. In the name of our group, like this, one minute.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0588par0719	Wait a minute, that's a short word for the band. Here you go, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0590par0723	Now, first of all, I'd like to talk to you about the Minister's presentation. Mr. Secretary, of course, he's very interested in water. I'd like to tell you about the river reforms first. SOLDIER issued a regulation, reduced the 100-metre stream to 10 meters, but the creeks don't know about it, I'll tell you that. Besides, you do all the river reforms by pouring concrete and building on top of all the places you've been rehabilitating the creek. There's even a school on top of the river reforms in Istanbul, and there's a mosque on top of it. You're making it so ranta open. As for Hasankeyf, I would like to say that if the Ministry of Culture had applied, it would have been on the UNESCO list. It's a twelve thousand-year-old settlement that can meet nine of its 10 criteria. How many villas can it cost, Hasankeyf? What is it you call it? It's everywhere and it's done, and as a minister, you make those villas look like a skill. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We expect you to take care of our history, our culture, our national values. My respects.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0591par0730	Thank you, Mr. Backup. Mr. Akçay, you have a brief request. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0592par0734	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister of the Forest had a promise of fishing in the Gediz River in Manisa, which I believe was five or six years old. When are we going to fish in this Gediz River, Mr. Secretary? A decision was made to build the Bigfoot Hydroelectric Plant on top of the Bosburun, Charcoalist and Leady Creeks, right next to Salihli and the lead thermal zone. These three streams provide an important portion of Salihli's need for both drinking water and irrigation water. Also, the bottled water running on their lead spa uses the same water. When the Bigfoot HES Project is carried out, it will change the flow and bed of Leady, Bozburun, Coalman Creeks, thousands of trees will be cut down, the ecosystem of the streams and the basin around it will be corrupted. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do you now find it right to have HES right next to the lead thermal area, when this Manisa Salihian bullet thermal region was declared a tourist destination by the Council of Ministers in 2008? I'm asking both the Minister of the Forest and the Minister of Energy. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0593par0741	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 ORMAN GOVERNMENT [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 I) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014 Congressmans, the talks in the sixth round are complete. Now we're going to do 20 minutes of QA. We'll spend ten minutes of that time on questions, ten minutes on answers. So I'm going to promise the MPs who entered the system in the first ten minutes, respectively. Mr. Özdish, here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0594par0788	My question is to the Minister of Energy. In Adana, electricity is often cut, especially during the summer months or in the rainy winter days. In the summer of 2015, I also submitted the question motion, because of extreme intensity. But I don't accept that answer. There are neighborhoods with blackouts over a week. Do you have any idea what's going on with the elderly, the sick, the people who live on the machine? What measures will you take in 2016? Another question: various pencils combined under the price of my distribution in electric bills are victims of the citizen. I'd like to show you a bill that I have with me. In the bill, which costs $42, the distribution price is $23, and with taxes, the total is $81. This is a clear robbery. Are you going to make an adjustment?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0595par0791	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0596par0792	Minister, Akkaya Dam is a place between Niğde-Bor and Niğde-Bor that has been on the agenda for ten years with its pollution. It's near the university, there's a lot of smell. The problem can't be solved even if it's been interfered with. As you know, this is one of the places that has become this because the treatment facility for the AKP's Niğde municipality is not working. Our people are very uncomfortable with this. Moreover, from Niğde, Ecemish water comes out and flows to the Mediterranean. There was a project that was set up twenty years ago to bring this water to the plains of Niğde, and to the plains of Bor. Is this project to be put to life? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0597par0795	Thank you. And, members of lawmakers, if you tell me which minister you're asking, it'll probably be easier to answer. Mr. Parsak...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0598par0798	My first two questions are for the Minister of Energy. I've asked you before, and I'm asking you again, at first, when will the implementation of mining licenses, including Afyon Iscehisar, be released into the control of the Prime Minister's office and the victims be removed? My second question: Is there any study of the power and coal potential of the thermal plant, which has been announced by AKP lawmakers in our district of Dinar, of possible impacts on the environment? When will the construction of the plant begin? My next questions are for the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. Today, TÜİK announced that Afyon was the 41st province, the most emigrant. What measures will be taken to prevent this migration? When will the construction of Yeşilhisar Dam, which has been opened several times by the Minister, begin? Is it true that it is said to be the first party of the MHP, that whoever you voted for should also make your dam? The other question is, is there a study of fire workers serving six months of the year instead of using subcontractors for planting and so on?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0599par0804	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0600par0805	I'm asking the Minister of the Forest: do you plan to recruit these 8,500 temps who work successfully in the fires? You did it verbally in the purchase of these forest engineers, and the court called it off. Do you have any thoughts about this? Will you take the forest engineer? One third question is that you have tendered the property of the DSI in the town of Yenimahalle, Ankara, and that some 294 dwellings will be built here, and each of these will be sold to the head of the apartment and on top of it -- for 280,000 lira -- employees in the Chief of Staff. They say it'll be worth $1 million when this is over. Have you made such a tender? What is your purpose here? Is the purpose of building a residence of the DSI to contribute to the employees or to make some bureaucrats their home owners?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0599par0808	Mr. Coachdemir...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0601par0809	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Eroglu, when will the work of the Bursa Orhanli Fadil Darıtarladere, Kovalidere, Dağdere and Grandorhan Aktaş and Durhasan ponds and watering the left coast of the Friday Dam begin? Mr. Colonel, UEDAS, who distributes electricity in Bursa, has shut down the district's business chiefs in Keles, while Majororhan and Harmancik are in the process of shutting down. How do you assess this practice in winter, especially when electrical failures are being repaired too late in small settlements? Are you aware, again, that UEDAS made his employees sign a notice agreement so that they would not benefit from the minimum wage increase?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0602par0813	Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0603par0814	Thank you, Mr. President. 72% of the world's boron mine is in Turkey, used in many areas from agriculture to space industry. In the U.S. space industry, Turkey, unfortunately uses soap and glass fibre mainly in the industry. My question is to the Minister of Energy. Who are the customers of the Turkish boron market this year? If there are foreign companies, which countries do they belong to? Would you care to explain how the Bor Institute contributes to the meat mine? Is the privatisation of the Borial mines on your agenda? Do you plan to employ subcontractors who work in Bors? How many thermal power plants did you give CED permission to?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0604par0817	Mr. Sertel...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0605par0818	I'm asking the Minister of the Forest. Minister, I was born in Eskişehir, and my youth passed through Eskişehir. I caught a lot of fish in the badger, and we swam a lot, and then the Badger quickly got dirty, and life died. There is God, and thankfully there is, Yilmaz Bükerşen Eskişehiri, the mayor of Eskişehir, who made the city of tourism, and saved Badger because of the purifications. (CHP cheers) Now there's a beach in Badger, and my countrymen come in and swim like they're going into the sea. In İzmir, where I live, our mayor Aziz Kocaoglu opened the 54th of the wastewater treatment facilities last week. There are 604 waste-water treatment facilities all over Turkey, 54 of which are in İzmir. Our president has fulfilled all responsibilities. You understand what I'm saying about the Gediz River, Mr. Secretary. You said the Gediz River would be completely cleaned by 2012, and you invited us to go fishing at the Emiral regulator. So I invite you to keep your promise, and I promise you, I will buy the fishing rod, I will give it to you, we will fish together.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0606par0820	Thank you, thank you, very nice to meet you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0607par0821	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0608par0822	Thank you. Today is the 100th day of the government's deployment. I've looked at the promises made for a hundred days, and I'm making them weak, and the report card's weak.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0609par0824	People give you the report card, not you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0608par0825	I'm asking the Minister of Energy two questions. One of the things to do in this hundred days was to connect electricity and water to unregistered structures. It is a very busy problem in Bursa, especially in Sümümümüvler neighborhood of Yıldırım district. 40,000 families don't have electricity or water this time of year. When you look up at the sky, it's covered like a spider web with electrical wires and water pipes. When will you fulfill that promise? Second, is there a new nuclear plant in the world that's been built in the last 20 years? Third, I'm asking the Minister of the Forest. In the summer, a great fire broke out in Mudaniah, burning 170 hectares, and burning 110 thousand trees, six months ago. A few things like this were planted before the election. The city of Mudaniah said, "Let us plant it." You said, "No." When will these trees be planted? Since there's no night-vision helicopters, there's been a fire this big, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0610par0829	Mr. Radish...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0611par0830	My question is to Mr. Energy Minister. They wished for mercy to our workers who died in the Grizu tragedy, but we could not find a solution to the Zonguldak inhabitants and the job seekers, the unemployed. Minister, coal production in the world is increasing year by year, and thermal plants are operating depending on it. Unfortunately, however, coal, which was 80 per cent in Turkey in the 1980s, is now down to 6 per cent. The Zonguldak (also known as Zonguldak) also has plants based on imported coal -- its native town -- 3.9 billion kilowatts. So, with the Russian crisis, the energy we know to be in the 70 percent, the outside dependency... is the only thing in Zonguldak. We haven't heard anything about it from you either. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So what do we say is what happens to Zonguldak, the shape of stone coal?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0612par0834	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0613par0835	Thank you, Mr. President. The Indians say that when the last tree is cut down, when the last river dries, when the last fish dies, the white man will know that money is something that cannot be eaten. So, the Minister of Energy and the Minister of the Forest side by side, the two are contrasts. One of them gives the license of the quarry, the gravel stoves, the granite stoves, the REMs, and the HESESTs, and the other one allows the forest. Two ministers side by side. Mr. Minister, I am not against the ESEs as a principle, Minister of Energy, but these projects must be done in the right places, in the right places, in the right places, where the forests must not be cut down. Mr. Minister of the Forest, Seyfettin Yilmaz, our friend, spoke in his speech -- our friend, the MP from the MP, -- made some very serious claims on this stand. You haven't responded to any of these allegations. From Veysel Eroglu, we would like to hear the answers to these questions, and we would like to hear what are intelligent and dirty relationships in this regard. We want you to answer them in the High Parliament. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I want it in writing from the other Minister. Let me ask you something, our Minister of Energy...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0614par0842	Thank you, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0613par0843	I asked our Minister of Energy in the Plan and Budget Commission this question -- well, listen to it, please, as member of the Plan and Budget Commission -- my question is: there are very serious speculations about the oil of ISIS in our country. Is there any information, documents on companies in our country, in Turkey, buying, selling ISIS oil? What companies trade in this business, and that is my question. Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0614par0845	Thank you. Now, to answer questions...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0613par0847	Just a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0614par0848	You asked your question. Look, but that's how it went for a minute.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0613par0849	No, I'll tell you his answer.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0614par0850	Clock's ticking.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0613par0851	I'll tell you his answer.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0614par0852	Why didn't you say so? You asked, and he'll answer.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0613par0853	I'll ask you his answer. He says, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0614par0854	Mr. Pine, please.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0613par0855	The Minister's answer to the question...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0614par0856	Now, I will make a promise to the ministers on behalf of the government to answer the questions, whichever Minister wants to say first, because we're running out of time -- nine minutes -- there's a lot of questions. Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu has my first promise. Mr. Eroglu, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0615par0859	Now, sir, Niğde Akkaya Dam is really getting dirty. In fact, we did a program two years ago about her cleaning up. Of course, the Niğde would need an advanced biodegradation facility for wastewater. We've prepared projects, we'll offer them to the Ministry of Development. I want to make this especially good news. If we're authorized, we'll do it soon. You're right, it's a really hard project, a big project, but we have master's plan. And I'd like to bring Ecemanian water to that area.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0616par0861	From Aksaray?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0615par0862	Now, of course, it's about Mr. Yilmaz. Of course, we'll get forest engineers. The DSI has a facility in Etlik. It's all for the members of the DSI and the Department of Forestry and Waterworks, which I want to emphasize in a nutshell. Also, you know, I just responded to the report, but protocol was signed between Istanbul Technical University (ITÜ) and Forest General Directorate for the Forest Information System (ORBIS) Project. Of course, it was said that the university has offered a firm some services. Once again, the company's name is the Limited Information Systems Company. I'm just learning. It's not a construction company, it's an Ankara-based firm, it has nothing to do with Afyon. Also, the company is an IT company, and among its references, it has special administrations, the CSEDES Geographic Information System (CBS) Software Project, the Cardiköy-Ataşehir Inter-CBS Software Project, the Eagle-Adalar CBS Software Project, the infrastructure of many municipalities, the information processing project, and I want to summarize that. Other than that, it's about Afyonkarahisar, sir, we don't reopen a facility that opens there, if you have any proof. Besides, in Afyonkarahisar, we certainly make all the ponds; the Afyonkarahisar already know it, and Afyonkarahisar is doing the recognition. As a matter of fact, we have a really important city that has voted 63.5 percent since 1950, and I love it, and so do they.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0617par0866	I asked about the Greenhisar Dam, and I asked about the concrete.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0615par0867	We're making all the ponds in Bursa. Look, before, the number of ponds was not as big as the fingers of one hand, but there are now 15 businesses, four businesses, and also the ponds in the plan and the project. We'll make all the ponds. We have even built the Lotus Dam, to obtain the drinking water, you know, and we have finished the Cynasty Dam, and have reformed all the streams. The Badger in Eskişehir... sir, the Badger in Eskişehir, my doctorate in Badger, was dirty at the time, but there...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0618par0869	Sir, the time...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0619par0870	Mr. Secretary, by the way, if we go fast... the other two ministers will answer in a minute, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0615par0871	Okay, fine. So, therefore, there were, of course, the state-run locomotive factories, the removal of the Sumerbank, the pollution from them, they rose up, the streams were organized, and the pollution from the spring was removed. You call it a wastewater treatment plant in Izmir, but the pollution of the Gulf is clear, so I ask you to consider it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0620par0874	Gediz Minister, answer Gediz. In 2012...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0615par0875	And finally, I don't want to stay with the others-- the Mudanya fire. It burned 170 hectares. The entire field has been planted, 107,500 saplings planted. It is not your duty to give any note to a report card, for those who say, "The report card is weak." The nation also gives us 49.5 percent; one of the two is from the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0621par0877	November 1st, Hajji, the results of November 1st?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0615par0878	In 2019, all of Turkey will, hopefully, vote for the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0621par0879	Teacher, the results of November 1st?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0622par0880	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, Energy and Natural Resources...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0623par0882	Teacher, Gediz, Gediz... May Gediz enter your dream. I hope you dream about Gediz.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0624par0883	And Hasankeyf, of course, I hope you have a nightmare.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0623par0884	I hope you dream it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0625par0885	Mr. President, please let me use the time quickly. Then it'll be over. Now, Mr. Self-Subject asked two questions, the electricity's been cut off, the electricity bills... I, of course, was in the back when he was talking about it, so he probably missed it himself, but I'll tell him again, very quickly, in a very simple way. The first is: Turkey's electrical grid system infrastructure is thirty-forty years old. These networks, built according to Turkey's 15-20megawatt capacity, are no longer responding to that capacity at the point of need as of today. Today, the transformer in Turkey's region or other regions of Anatolia, with the power of 73,000 megawatts, is the source of these problems on the ground -- dependent on the high demand -- in network transmission lines, fugitives, cracks, explosions, explosions, transformers. We have announced an 18 quadrillion-year investment plan based on 21 distribution zones -- the next five years -- as of early 2016. To continue this for five years, to follow and meet this demand for electricity...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0626par0887	Mr. Secretary, before the privatisation...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0625par0888	If you listen, I'll sit down and I'll listen to you. I'll continue.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0627par0889	Please, you asked your question, wait for the answer. Please do not interfere.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0625par0890	There's not enough time, look, you're running out of time. You won't get an answer, and you're running out of time.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0628par0891	Mr. Secretary, this doesn't require people stealing money from their pockets.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0629par0892	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0625par0893	Now, the wiring of the electric bills... I answered that again. Look, as of today in Turkey, look at the last pencil in the electricity bill as of January 1, 2016, divide by the electric kilowatt hour used, and calculate how much 1 kilowatt electricity is, and then 2015. With the pens collected, so with the law passed last year, I counted eight pens: retail sales service price, meter reading, missing runners, delivery price, delivery price, these are now shown in a pen, in a pen. According to the invoice when you collected this, Turkey is still one of the countries, according to 13 years ago, which consumes the cheapest electricity in Europe -- according to the household people. Let's move on to the next question. I can give you more in writing about the scholarship, about the UEDAS. I can also send you the work on the arrangement.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0630par0895	Everyone pays them at minimum wage, not the Minister like you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0625par0896	There's been a question about the boron. 85% of the world's debt consumption is used in glass, ceramics, agriculture, cleaning. We export debt to 110 countries, more than 400 institutions, customers. We have no agenda for privatisation of the boron mines in Turkey, and we will continue to produce as locals, all of us. The Bor Institute and the Meat Mining... it's not that you have a product, it's that product that's being developed. That's what the Bor Institute does. So, you have 60-70 percent of nuts, e, the price, the market and market, the development of RD, technological investment. Turkey is investing in this, and it will continue to do so. At the point of determination, the added value will continue to make valuable products in the automotive industry, which will be used to convert profit margins into high products, a simple glass, defence industry, industrially. Other than that, nuclear power plants were immediately asked. There are more than 100 nuclear plants in construction today. They build nuclear power plants in their own country, including Britain, many countries of Europe. Today it's called Fukushima... yes, there was an accident in Fukushima. And then? Japan shut down all the plants.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0631par0899	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0625par0900	Let's keep a close eye on him.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0631par0901	We're following.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0625par0902	As of December, all of the power plants he stopped are back online and continue to produce electricity.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0631par0903	A week later, he hung up again, Mr. Secretary, because there was a leak.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0625par0904	Today, Norway, Sweden, Finland, even Baltic countries...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0631par0905	Wrong, Germany shuts down in 2022.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0625par0906	Look, more than 40 per cent of Sweden's electricity needs are covered by nuclear, more than 35 per cent by nuclear, and more than 70 per cent by France by nuclear.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0631par0907	I don't think you're following closely, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0625par0908	For him, with dry envy, only and only this...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0631par0909	They're giving up now, and they're making the area green.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0632par0910	Guys, don't interfere, but please... you asked your question, you'll get your answer. Please take your seat.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0625par0911	Friends, in the future, let's not let him be in Turkey, not this. Let's not... let's not make the wind, let's not make the bird tracks, let's not make the sun, let's not do the hydroelectric here, let's turn off all these lights, let's light up the General Assembly with a light bulb, let's light it up with a gas lamp.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0633par0912	Who's objecting to the wind plant?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0634par0913	Just turn off the light bulbs from the palace!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0625par0914	Now, friends, let's make the plants, the nuclear plants, the power plants, the power plants that we've built, and we'll argue when we say, "Let's get to the point where we're going to get to the point where we're going to get to the point where we're going to get to the point where we're going to get to the point where we're going to have to go to the point." That, of course, is the statusist, the outlaw mentality.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0635par0916	We don't want a nuclear power plant; we don't want plants that destroy the environment, we don't want plants that destroy nature; we want to live humanly first, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0625par0917	Now, let's get to the final, crucial point. I gave Moses the answer, the president didn't say, and I'll give him the same answer. The claim that the Republic of Turkey has been involved in trade relations with the DAEŞ organisation, the first terrorist organisation in the world, is that it is the propaganda of corrupt organizations who are in the parallel position to betray this country. (AK PARTI) It is, unfortunately, and unfortunately, a failure to express this propaganda under this roof and link the state of the Republic of Turkey to the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0636par0919	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0921	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0636par0922	Mr. Pine, look, there's no such procedure.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0923	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0636par0924	Congressmans, in the QA, you ask your question, you get your answer.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0925	Mr. President, wait a minute, a statement... I didn't get to ask the question when I asked the question.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0636par0927	Yeah...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0928	Now, there's a paragraph to the answer the Minister gave to what he said.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0636par0929	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0638par0930	Yeah, he gave me the answer, bro.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0931	I'm not saying that you've done business with the light.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0636par0932	Mr. Pine, you can take it out later, explain it to me.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0638par0933	ISIS is a terrorist organization, no oil fields.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0934	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0638par0935	Those who say so are parallelists, traitors to this country.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0936	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0639par0937	Congressmans, the question-answer process is complete. So, we've reached the end of the negotiations.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0938	Mr. President, you can't do such a thing, you have no right to speak to us.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0639par0939	Now, in order to move the budgets in the sixth round into the sections...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0940	Mr. President, there's bullying, you have to give me a say.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0640par0941	What a tease!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0639par0942	...and I'll have your chapters read separately, and I'll vote for you.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0943	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0639par0944	The Ministry of Customs and Trade for the Central Management budget of 2016...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0945	Mr. President, you can't, you can't!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0639par0946	...I submit to your votes for their division...
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0947	What you're doing is not right, you're abusing the mission!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0641par0948	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0639par0949	All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0950	You're abusing the mission!
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0641par0951	What did he say?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0952	I'll answer.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0641par0953	What did he say?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0954	I'll give it to you, I'll read it here, I'll read it.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0641par0955	What did he say? It's a terrorist organization. He said it's a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0637par0956	I'll read it, I'll read it, I'll read it, I'll read it, why don't I?
tbmm-2016-03-03sit06spe0642par0957	I've been reading episodes: 31) GROUP AND TRAVEL LOOK 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 856,069,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 89,270,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 107,427,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 1,052,766,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Customs and Trade has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2016. The Ministry of Customs and Trade for Central Management in 2014, I submit to your votes that the final account be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 791,215,929.00 Budget Expenses 744.860.042.98 Canceled Fund 46,355,886,02 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Customs and Trade was adopted in 2014 as part of the final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the competition institution will be transferred to the central management budget of 2016: Those who don't... Sustained. 42.07) RICOBET PRODUCTION 1) Competition Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 39,903,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 29.597,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 69,500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,526,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 67,974,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 69,500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2016 have been adopted. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Government account of 2014 will be transferred to its chapters: those in favor of... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Competitive Association's Final Account for Central Management 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 73,200,000.00 Budget Expenses 56,705,009,60 Canceled Fund 16,494,990,40 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 58,800,000.00 Collection 49.11.834.95 Rejections 415.352.90 Net Collection 48.696.482.05 (B) Those who accept the ruler... those who don't... are accepted. The competition was adopted as part of the central management account in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources take part in the central management budget of 2016: Those who don't... Sustained. 20) THE ENERGY AND THE ENERGY OF ENERGY 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 452.611.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 38,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.059,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 397,838,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 1,135,284,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 1,988.830.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Department of Energy and Natural Resources approved parts of the central management budget of 2016 The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in 2014, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 1,764.276,000.00 Budget Expenses 1,544.807.006.25 Canceled Fund 219,468,993,75 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2014. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Energy Market Editors' Office will take part in the central management budget of 2016: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.05) ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 14.501.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 65,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 200,224,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 217.220,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 199,001000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 20,289,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Ret and Returns - 2,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 217.220,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Energy Market Editing Agency has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2016. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of 2014 will be transferred to the chapters of the Energy Market Editing Agency: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 294.721.784.26 Budget Expenses 252.136.656.25 Canceled allowance 42,585,128,01 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 152.022,000.00 Collection 264.983.622.64 Ret and Returns 12.846.966.39 Net Collection 252.136.656.25 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Energy Market Editing Agency was adopted in 2014 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the National Bor Research Institute shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2016: those who have not accepted... those who have not. 40.26) INSTITUTION INSTITUTION 1) National Bor Research Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 04 Economic Affairs and Services 13.962,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 13.962,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,200,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 13.962,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The National Institute of Bor Research has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2016. I submit to your votes that the National Institute of Bor Research shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2014 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 11.969.109.00 Budget Expenses 7.901.977.76 Canceled Fund 4,067,131,24 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 11.739.00 Net Collection 4.817.045, 18 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The National Institute of Bor Research was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2014. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation will be transferred to the central management budget of 2016: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.27) BUILDING OF TURKEY ATOM INNERGY 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 12.168,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.311,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 152.277,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 166,756,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 13.758,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 152.756,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 242,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 166,756,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2016. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Atomic Energy Foundation shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 134.892.113.93. Budget Expenses 106,952,548,39 Canceled Fund 27.939.565.54 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 4.296.241.69 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 127,915,000.00 Collection 106,764,507,25 Ret and Returns 314,315,39 Net Collection 106,450.191,86 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management budget of 2016 of the Department of Mining Study and Search are transferred into the section: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 40.40) MADEN DETECTIVE AND EARLIER GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 83,520.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 55,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 356,042,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 1,240,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 442.857,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 83,700,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 262,857,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 96,300,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 442.857,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Mining Study and Search was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Central Administration account of 2014, the Department of Mines Review and Search Directorate, shall be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Mine Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 504.478.960.51 Budget Expenses 459.086.375.25 Canceled Fund 45.392.585.26 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 1,290,567,13 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 385.016,000.00 Collection 652.378.893.85 Ret and returns 94.340.572.06 Net Collection 558.038.321.79 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Mining Study and Search General Directorate was adopted in 2014 as part of its final account of central management. The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks has voted to take part in the central management budget of 2016: Those who don't... Sustained. 33) ORMAN AND WATER WORKING 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 12.450.896,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 524,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.247,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 354,795,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Environmental Protection Services 177,774,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Gen. TOPLAM 12.986.236,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs adopted parts of the central management budget of 2016 The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks in 2014, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Forest and Waterworks Ministry Final Account for Central Management 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 11.623.977.342.00 Budget Expenses 10.561.392.928.79 Compensation Expenses 1,046,312,77 Cancelled Fund 1,063,630,725,98 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs was adopted into parts of the central management account in 2014. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of 2016 will be transferred to the section of the Forest General Directorate: those who don't accept... those who don't. 40.17) ORMAN GOVERNMENT 1) Forest General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 16.239.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 359.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 2,846,423,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 2,863,021.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 716,160,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 1,762.021.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 383.830.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Earnings 10,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 2,862.021,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The department of the Central Management budget of 2016 has been adopted. Director General of the Forest, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2014 will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 2,330,174.030,14 Budget Expenses 2,213,985,578,95 Canceled Fund 111,428,935,93 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 4.759.515.26 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 2.038.017,000.00 Collection 2,023.197,508,11 Ret and returns 4.580.514.87 Net Collection 2.018,616,993,24 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Central Management Account of 2014 was adopted as part of the Forest General Directorate's final account. I submit to your votes that the State Water Affairs General Directorate will be transferred to the central management budget of 2016: those who have not accepted... are accepted. 40.57) ACTIVITY OF SURVOLUTION 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 64,487,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 706,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 40.192,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 9.769.163,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Environmental Protection Services 45,406,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 987.396,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 885,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Gen. TOPLAM 10.908.235,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 125,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 10,645,135,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 138.100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 10.908.235,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of State Water Affairs has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2016. State Water Affairs General Directorate, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management in 2014 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 11.241,876,757,60 Budget Expenses 10,877,469,855,34 Canceled Fund 362.827.841,74 Transferred to the Next Year 322.199.198.90 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 9.343.949.000.00 Collection 10,957,834,867,94 Ret and Returns 2,144.388,01 Net Collection 10.955.690.479,93 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The State Water Affairs General Directorate of 2014 was adopted into parts of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of Meteorology will be transferred to the central management budget of 2016: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 33.75) METEOROLOGY GENIFER 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 273,855,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.815,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 227,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 278.897,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2016 has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Departments of your final account of 2014, the General Directorate of Meteorology, those who don't accept, those who don't. 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total grant 221,338,607,25 Budget Expenses 192.149.346.49 Canceled Fund 29,189,260,76 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 24,533,259,69 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The National Directorate of Meteorology was approved for the final account of central management in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Water Institute be transferred to the central budget of 2016: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.58) ENGLISH INSTITUTION 1) Turkey Water Institute 2016 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 41,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 5.088,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 5.129,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 5,029,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 5.129,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2016 were adopted by the Turkish Water Institute. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Water Institute will be transferred to the chapters of its final account in 2014: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 4.723.533.00 Budget Expenses 3,783,027,72 Canceled Fund 940.505.28 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 4,591.00 Net Collection 3.270.296.96 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Water Institute was approved for the final account of central management in 2014. So the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the sixth round were accepted. I wish them well. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, the sixth round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Friday (March 4th 2016) to discuss the budget and precise accounts of the organisations in order. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00. Have a good evening, have a good Friday already. Thank you.
