tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press voting buttons and report that they have been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidential office within three minutes, and do not leave the hall. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan, who wants to speak about İzmir's problems. Here you go, Mr. Dogan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Dogan, one moment, sir. Congressmans, Mr. Müslüm Doğan will begin his speech on the bench, but there is a hum in the General Assembly Hall, which makes the noise very difficult to listen to. Therefore, I invite all my friends to rest. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0002par0019	Mr. President, I'd like to start by saying that we condemn the antidemocratic ban of the democratic political meeting scheduled for June 4th in İzmir. The most important problem of Izmir is that neither traffic nor unemployment nor economic problems, the most important problem of our lzmir (Izmir) is the environmental problem; the nature of Izmir (Izmir), the pearl of the Aegean, is a clear goal of capital. Today, the capital attacks our nuclear and thermal plants, HESEs, RESbooks, JES, gold, silver, nickel mines and businesses, cement factories, and many other forms of life. The thermal plants that were planned to be built in Aliyaka are now making the already existing pollution unbearable. The drinking water of Izmir (Izmir) is under threat from the Kaldağ and Gördes nickel mines, particularly the Ephemchu dry gold mine. Gediz, Menderes the Little, Menderes the Great, and Bakrchay face with intense pollution. Dear lawmakers, as my deadline is limited, I'd like to talk to you about a few basic issues. The Efemcukuru Gold Mining Company is located in the village of Efemcukuru, Menderes, İzmir Province, Turkey. The construction of the Pine Dam, which is planned to provide drinking, use water for about 250,000 people a day, despite the court order for the Efemcukuru Gold Mining Company, is blocked, as well as blocked from the construction of the Pine Dam, where it is located, and the contamination of other villages in the nearby area, Beautybahçe and its local water supply, and the Wooded Baraj Lake. This needs to be taken care of without wasting time. This mine must be shut down immediately, following the court's decision to preserve the right to live in a healthy environment. Another important problem is that Izmir Gaziemir is buried radioactive waste found in the Lion Hunter Factory site. Unfortunately, the question motion for the Minister of Environment and Urbanism on April 12, 2016 has not yet been answered. From here, I ask the Minister, how did these nuclear wastes get into Turkey, and by whom was the trade made? Can this be an example of the decision to recycle in France and to bring Izmir to the port of Aliaya for the removal of the liquid gas tanker, which was first sent to Malta, then renamed Methania, which was changed to Ethan? How do these ships, which threaten the health and environment of workers in the dissolution industry, access our landwaters? Do we want to be turned into the garbage of our country's industrial countries? Dear lawmakers, dangerous waste found millions of tons of iron steel mills between Aliya-Foca, is being used as filling material by the İzmir Metropolitan Municipality. This practice that puts human health in such danger must be terminated immediately. Besides, the never-ending garbage nightmare in Hardanda is still going on. When Harmandalı was founded in 1992, it was established as Turkey's most modern floor waste disposal facility, but in the past 24 years no renovation has been conducted for the dump. In what is called wild storage, the garbage is collected and compressed into the dug-out pits. The facility doesn't have any sorting units. These holes that have been dug and re-closed are in serious danger of a landslide and methane gas explosion. There must be an immediate solution to this issue. Dear MPs, two cement factories in the middle of İzmir have been vomiting poison into the city for years. The pollution and natural carnage created by the cement factories to supply raw materials has hurt all of us. Cement factories, however, continue to gnaw at the forests around the city. These factories cut down thousands of trees just last year to make clay a calculous furnace by renting the forest areas of Bornova and Buca for 25 years. With scientific data that has had an extremely negative impact on the health of the city and its citizens, cement factories that are in the middle should be terminated immediately. Dear MPs, the people of Izmir have only one demand: fresh air, clean soil, clean water. We want nothing more than the right to live in a healthy environment written in the Constitution. And last but not least, the honorable MPs, the prisoners and prisoners in İzmir Şakran Prison have been on hunger strike for 24 days. We're learning that the ministry has done no work on this, why these people are on hunger strike, why they're not doing any research on what their problems are, they're not communicating. These people are at risk of their lives, and I want them to focus on that. My respects.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0003par0031	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. The second out-of-date statement belongs to Amassian MP Mustafa Tuncer (Amasian MP Mustafa Tuncer) who wants to address the 97th anniversary of Amasya Tamimi (Amasya Tamimi) and the international Ataturk, Culture and Art Festival events. Here you go, Mr. Tuncer.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0004par0036	Mr. President, valuable MPs, today the International Ataturk, Culture and Art Festival is under way in Amasya. The festival is held every year on 12 June 22 June, when Ataturk came to Amasya (Amasya) and the birth certificate of the Battle of Salvation was prepared. It began on the same date again this year, June 12th, and it's still going on. However, the festival is celebrated differently this year, which begins each year with great enthusiasm and public participation, and continues with enthusiasm, joy and pride, and this year, because of our martyrs and terrorist events, it is extremely dull, sad and angry. Respected lawmakers, we have faced one of the most painful paintings in the past year, as a result of the martyring of two police officers in 2015, followed by the outbreaks of Suruç and Ankara. In the last year, the number of martyrs has reached 550. During this period, Amasya has been one of the most martyred cities in the last year. So much so that, from the day the terrorist incidents began, over 30 years ago, the year when the most martyrs came was this year. Between 1981 and 2008, Amasya gave 23 victims to terror and 20 to date from July 2015. The AKP can't be too proud of its work. Amasya, the province where the birth certificate of the struggle for independence was prepared, has been punished for the past year. In the last year, we have called and requested the governorship to receive the names and titles of our American soldiers and police, who have been martyrs. One day later, they returned and said, "We are not allowed to inform on the martyrs with the following number of statements from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. " I'm asking the Home Secretary and the Secretary of State separately: did you really issue a general statement about not giving martyr information? If that's true, why are you hiding the people's martyrs from the nation, and what is your purpose? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if it is true that they are not given the names of martyrs, then soon the martyrs' column, which is held on the left or right, will be taken off the boards. Unfortunately, we've been put in a position to conceal our proud martyrs. But the purpose of my seeking the names of the martyrs was to read the names of the Amasian martyrs from here in the last year and remember them from the high ground. However, I can't share the names of our martyrs with you as a result of the failure to give the names of the governorship of Amasya. I thank all our martyrs from the high ground for their service to our country and their lives, and I cherish them all. Dear lawmakers, terrorism is still in progress in our country, news of martyrdom is coming every day, but supporting media and power is trying to create a perception of this as if it were the Republican People's Party. No matter how slandered by both power and the media, they will not be able to deceive our people and convince them of such a baseless event. Because our nation knows very well that the Republican People's Party, which founded this country, has no ties to terrorist organizations that want to divide this country. Again, our nation knows very well who are the people who set up a mobile court in Habur, under the name of the solution process; in Oslo, Dolmabahçe, they know very well who are the people who sit at the table with the terrorist organization and are doing protocols. Our nation is well aware of those who send delegations to the Imran, and those who instruct for it, and those who praise Abdullah Ocalan. Our nation also knows and recognizes those who send trucks and guns to the terrorist organization. In addition, our nation is well aware of who has ruled Turkey for 14 years and who has not been able to prevent terrorism for 14 years and who has been aiding and abetting terrorism. I'd like to address those who are trying to side with the Republican People's Party and the PKK terrorist organization. Stop saying such vulgar and immoral things right now. If you want to see those who support terrorism, turn around and look in the mirror. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0005par0044	Thank you, Mr. Tuncer. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Kemalettin Yilmakkin, who asked for the name of World Refugees Day. Here you are, Mr. Yilmaztekin.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0006par0049	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. June 21st, I made a pledge to mark World Refugees Day. As you know, one of the most important problems in today's world is the problem of immigration and refugees. Starting with the devastating effects of the First and Second World Wars, every social and political event in the last century has caused the problem of migration and refugees to become a global problem. In particular, the social and political crisis of the world over the past 25 years has made the world uninhabitable except for certain geographys. The Gulf War, the Bosnian massacre, the intervention in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Arab Spring, the Syrian civil war, the poverty and hunger in Africa, and the people who were abandoned to their fates were forced to leave their territories. In Syria, the tragedy throughout the Middle East is one of the greatest catastrophes in human history, which puts serious responsibilities on the world. As far as our strategic position and our historical and cultural ties, the greatest share of this responsibility has been given to this country and its children, who have been in the cradle of every civilization throughout history. Unfortunately, though, even Turkey, which responds with the loudest voice to the tragedy the world has closed its eyes, blocked its ear, turned its back on, is unable to approach the issue in its own political integrity. The issue of Syrian refugees has begun to be considered a problem in Turkey's politics in the nature of the EC PARTI government, and, as we all know, before June 7th, the unfortunate propaganda for refugees to be sent to Syria in case the power changes hands. We don't expect those who approach the issue with the nation's state head, who read history as of 1923, how the Middle East was looted after we turned our backs and how a drop of blood could be less than a drop of oil, to understand and stand behind us. I don't think we're going to have a common denominator with those who think that a government that's a hundred and seventy-one years old, the Supreme Court and the Court, is a 90-three-year-old history. However, we still have to encourage, explain, and wait for understanding. We are in Syria, and we will be from now on. We have arrived in Iraq, Egypt, Palestine, Tunisia, Libya, Algeria, the Balkans, even Somalia, and Africa, again. Sir, what are you doing in Syria? As the Middle East man's life, property, honor is taken away, the babies in the arson, the children in the school, the people in the hospitals, the hunger of the world when they're slaughtered, the day will come when our determination and our faith will kneel. Dear lawmakers, it is time for us to see ourselves as we are, to take care of our historical savings, and to move on, knowing that we have earned self-esteem over the past 15 years. See, with the collapse of the Ottoman Empire, the balance mechanism in the world has been shattered and the roads leading to the greatest atrocities in human history have been opened since 1900, because throughout history, the Ottomans have used their power not to oppress, but to ensure justice. Today, the only community in the world that will use its power for justice and mercy is in this geography and in this land. Is this not a sign of our hosting against our Syrian brothers and sisters? Is it not a manifestation of the values we claim to host 700,000 refugees across Şanlıurfa, where I am a deputy of 31,000 in Harlan, and 75,000 in Akchakale? It's not that the Muhajirs and the oppressed who have no alternative but to be tortured and their backs to us, who have been taken from their homeland, who expect us to kill these flies, but to make the swamp a living, draining them. I believe that as long as this inventor-ensar is conscious, we as Turkey will overcome these difficulties, we will continue to stand firm in the presence of the oppressed and in the face of the tyrant. It is our wish that the next World Refugees' Day will make the world more alive and more just. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0007par0058	Thank you, Mr. Yilmakin.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0008par0059	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0007par0060	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0008par0061	Mr. President, Mr. Yilmaztekin has accused our group of being in need of answers in all his sentences, which he said would be sent back to the Syrian refugees by the president of the Republican People's Party before the elections. If you see fit, we'll have the right to answer.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0007par0062	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0008par0063	On behalf of our group, Mr. Mahmut Tanal will speak.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0007par0064	Mr. Tanal, come in. Please do not challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0009par0069	Dear President, the only way we can stop asylum seekers in Turkey is if Turkey really wants to fix relations with Iran, Syria, Russia, the legitimate Syrian regime has to fix relations with Assad. If not, the population of Syria is as comfortable as it is in Turkey. Dear friends, right now, families are falling apart in Şanliurfa. For example, for example, I'll tell you, the mayor of Harran has married a second, married a Syrian girl, much younger than his own age. Look, I'm giving you an example. Two: Likewise, none of the places where the Syrians opened a business in Şanlıurfa are taxing, and our citizen is taxing. It's very comfortable, in the field of education in Şanlıurfa, in terms of poverty... where, rather, lawyers from Syria are the issue. Lawyers do job surveillance there, how does he do it? Business is being followed by lawyers there before they go directly to the Immigration Administration County Directorate on the social media they set up. So even more than that, if there are people accused of state or terrorism at the sendback centers under the Article 54/5 of our International Protection Act, they are all members of terrorist organizations, without being handed over to the state's prosecutors, all ISIS gangs are being sent back without being investigated. What happened? People were not punished for membership in the terrorist organization for the massacre of ISIS terror organization in Niğde. They were sentenced for killing a public official. This shows: ISIS continues to hold hands with political power, dear friends. That would damage politics; this policy is unsustainable... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...outside policy is bankrupt in this sense, both inside and out. That's the way it is... we can't really help our own citizens in terms of asylum seekers anymore... the asylum seekers are paid $3 a day, $3 a day. How will a refugee earn a living with 3 TL?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0010par0074	Mr. Tanal, thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0009par0075	Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0011par0077	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0010par0078	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0011par0079	Mr. President, the speaker has taken the stand, speaking of bullying, but as you can see, he has made these statements only to delay the future law by taunting us again.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0010par0080	What sentence did he pick on, Mr. Turan?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0011par0081	I'll tell you. I don't need to answer. Insistingly, everyone knows which people, which organizations, the AK PARTY, and the government and ISIS have said that they are partners, and they have confirmed it again. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0012par0084	You don't demand a word, it's in the transcripts. Well, thank you, Mr. Turan. According to Article 59 of the Civil Code, non-responsive talks have ended. Now, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the first 15 of the members of lawmakers who went into the electronic system and asked for a word. I'm starting the promise process. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0013par0092	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'm tired of asking Mr. Minister of Agriculture, who, thanks to him, insists he doesn't answer, but I'm still going to keep asking questions every chance I get, even at the right time. Mr. Secretary, last year you let the nut drop from 15 liras to 8-9 liras. You have victimized the manufacturer in the market conditions set by international nut barons and their local collaborators. You promised you wouldn't interfere with the market. Turns out you were bluffing. Now, in a month, the new season begins. What are you going to do about nuts and manufacturers this year, and what aren't you going to do about it? In previous years, will you continue to buy nuts from Turkey, but take over the industry last year because of you, adding nut cream to the exporter's bread? I invite you to be Minister of Nuts. I'm reporting you to all the nut makers. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0014par0096	Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0015par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. The Minister of National Education says that the opinions of the students and their guardians were received each time about the transformation of schools, but last week, especially when we traveled through the day of the report, I would like to point out that both Osmangazi Şhehit Bahadir Aydın and Karacabey Şadir Tayfur school have been receiving close to 3,000 signatures in both of them. Why is it that every time the power that talks about the will of the nation ignores the will of these little children and their parents, who cry, "Don't touch my school! Don't touch my teacher!" Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0016par0101	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0017par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. In Niğde Province, irrigation water is an important problem. The municipality of Niğde is located in the village of Dardardere in the village of Niğde Province. The pond is located about a mile and a half northeast of the village of Darkdere, and the construction of this pond has not yet begun. In Niğde, the underground waters are extracted with electricity, so as the underground waters are removed, the water goes deeper and deeper, and the problem of irrigation water is an important problem. Instead, they need to be assessed by natural flowing water, and the ponds are being built here, and we need to move quickly to get our peasants, our farmers, to get back to the water. In this context, Tepeköy, near the village of Darkdere, has complaints about drinking water from citizens due to the explosions that occurred in the past, and their drinking water bracelets are requested to be replaced immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0018par0106	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0019par0108	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, there have been recent systematic attacks on the Republican People's Party. The attacks on our mayor of Düzcede, our head of central district and lawmakers in Çorum, are a clear indication of how much the AKP is afraid of the Republican People's Party. Yes, the AKP is right to be afraid of CHP because the Republican People's Party is the most important obstacle to anyone who wants to destroy the secular republic. If the AKP thinks he can intimidate us with these cowardly and disgusting attacks, he's in a miserable state of mind. Don't let the AKP forget: we'll come to the harvest/Mushed flour/We'll come to a thousand/We'll come to a thousand/Is it a relief to shoot us?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0018par0111	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0020par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. While the ministers are here, the RTÜK has sent a letter to Can Erzincan TV to shut it down. The closure of television is contrary to freedom of thought, freedom of expression, freedom of press, freedom of working peace, the right to public learning and information; it also brings monopoly and cartelization; it blocks transparency. For this reason, I demand that, for political reasons without legal reasons, this closure be waived, the right to public knowledge, the right to public knowledge. My respects.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0021par0116	Mr. Kara...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0022par0118	Fish deaths have occurred because of the HES (HES) on Bridgeçay on the Antalya-Serik-Manavgat border. We also urge the government to stop this massacre on Bridgechay, the lifeblood that thousands of acres of land and the public use as drinking water. In the same way, it is evident that hebrew was harmful to nature and human beings to whom they tried to do so. They've made promises before, and we call on them to keep their promises.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0021par0120	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0023par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the trial in the Rize Administration Court is under way for the legal struggle against Cerattepe. During the period set up in the Rize Administration Court, the expert report, unfortunately, has been written by the expert reports, cut, copy, paste, and in any way, unscientific from scientific facts. If the attorneys of the defense company or the prosecution had filed such a report, they would have filed such a subjective report. We'd like to state that the trial process is under way. These reports aren't worth as much as garbage to Artvins. We're gonna tear these reports off the council stand. In the coming days, we will definitely avoid unlawful rape in Cerattepe. The people of Artvin do not recognize these reports, and I am once again honored to announce it to the public of Turkey in the great Parliament. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0024par0126	Dear Maker...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0025par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. The court, converted to the authority's enforcer, has signed new legal murders every day. The latest example of this is Professor Dr. Şebnem Kürdar Fincancı, Editor-in-Chief of Turkey's Human Rights Foundation who participated in the campaign for Editor-in-Chief on Watch campaign in Özgür Gündem daily to support freedom of expression, Ankara Representative to Turkey Erol Önderoğlu and writer Ahmet Nesin have been arrested on charges of propaganda against the terrorist organization. Yesterday we witnessed another legal massacre. If those who fire bullets at the main opposition leader are released, people who don't live like themselves in the middle of Istanbul are released from their homes, people who threaten to kill people in their workplaces, on the other hand, journalists are being charged with terrorism, if they're being arrested, if they're there, they're talking about the murder of the law. It's not a crime to be a journalist.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0026par0131	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0027par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I strongly condemn the attack on Mr. Tanju Ozcan. I call upon the men of Bolu here and now, remember that today you sit in your seats thanks to the republic, which you can't even tolerate in its anthem. You may insist on being Mr. Bolu, but I would like to remind you that there have always been cowards and traitors in this land, and the governors of power, like Ali Galib, and the puppets of imperialism, like Farid the son-in-law. But let it not be forgotten that this land exists with the brave Dadaloglus, who did not bow down to the oppressor, and Mustafa Kemals who fought the war of independence against Pir Sultans and imperialism and will continue to exist. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0028par0137	Mr. Selina Dogan...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0029par0139	Mr. President, there was another black day in which we would be ashamed to remember Turkey's democracy in the future, Professor Dr. Şebnem Kürdar Fincancı, Journalists Without Borders Representative to Turkey Erol Önderoğlu and Writer Ahmet Nessin were arrested for participating in the campaign for Editor-in-Chief on Watch launched to support Özgür Gündem daily, and they were handcuffed to prison. Those cuffs are actually caught on all of us. Shebnem Korır Fincancı, also a forensic expert, reported that he had found children's bones in his studies in Cizre. Erol Önder was a person who kept data on right violations in Turkey, and he was collecting data on people who were being sued for defamation of the President. Ahmet Nesin was making inquiries about the perpetrators of the Sivas massacre. Given all that, it's not hard to understand why these people were arrested. Those who bully the cafes, those who shoot our president, the rights defenders are being arrested when there is no need to be arrested. These days will pass, but let's not forget that law and democracy will one day be needed for everyone.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0028par0141	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0030par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister of Agriculture Faruk Çelik has assessed the price of intervention in wheat and has stated that market prices are good in wheat now, we are following the prices, we will make statements about it when the time comes. It's time, where are the explanations? I've been tracking the stock markets for days, and the manufacturers who make shapes, villages, villages and fields, and I haven't seen one who's happy yet. The price goes down less than 80 cents, the manufacturer's unhappy, he can't pay for the harvester. Mr. Secretary, you may think the prices are good on the table, but if you want, let's take a tour of the manufacturer, see if the prices are good or happy with the manufacturer. See to it at the beginning, not at the desk.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0031par0146	Mr. Benli...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0032par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on the basis of World Refugees Day on June 20th. Because one of the most pressing problems of world politics is the refugee problem. The instinct to survive, the desire to escape persecution, leads refugees to a journey they risk death. This journey is the result of an obligation, not a choice. Before we criticize refugees, we need to think that each of us may have to live in a society that we don't know, that we don't want, that we don't know, that we don't even know their language. Turkey hosts more than 3 million Syrian and Iraqis as a good example of the traditional state mind not being maintained. Our country's aim is to provide human dignity to those who cannot live in their own country because of the conditions of war. In fact, Turkey has taken on the responsibility of all the countries of the world on its own.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0033par0152	Mr. Whitebird Illustration...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0034par0154	Mr. President, thank you. Yesterday I was with our people in Maltepe. Citizens living in the District of Çınar, İstanbul Maltepe are trying to announce their voices to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. They are protesting the privatisation of the 132-acre highway land in the neighborhood. He led them into the rebellion, saying that the only green field they had left was to be built. The residents of China, prepared to start the legal struggle, want a green area where children can play, where old people can sit, people can breathe, everyone can play sports, and most importantly, they can use it as a safe haven in a disaster. This is where we call Minister of Environment and Urbanism Mehmet Özhaseki. The construction of this area would be an invitation to the deaths of thousands of people in a possible earthquake. To allow the loss of an important area where Maltepe is breathing is to allow air, water, and green to invade. We ask that this land be returned to our people, who are the rightful owners of this land for the benefit of the public.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0033par0156	Mr. Hussein Star...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0035par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. I condemn the attack on the lives of our citizens in Firuzah and the violent conduct of the police in the next act. Mr. President Erdoğan's re-opening of the Gunnery Barracks in this environment is nothing more than an attempt to cover up the rising terror, the high school reaction, and the poor economy, by changing the agenda and provoking people. You won't be able to divide these people with these little accounts. At this time, we should all be reviving tourism and economics together, but Mr. President is making other people turn against each other. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0036par0162	Mr. Hakverdi, come in.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0037par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. We visited Mardin last week, and, unfortunately, Mardin was given only three hours of electricity in 48 hours, and this electricity is given as a single phase. So many devices were not working, and because the wells could not be watered, the farmers could not water, and again the crops were ruined here. Last week, when the schools were open, they couldn't teach because the schools couldn't be flooded because there was no electricity. Mr. Energy Minister, I'm calling from here to tell you that this problem is a problem that you are responsible for solving. Please solve this problem and we'd like to believe that you didn't come to that chair with a relationship.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0038par0167	There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0039par0168	Thank you, Mr. Hakverdi. One minute of conversation is over. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who want a word. The first word is Mr. Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0040par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is World Refugee Day. According to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the number of refugees worldwide has exceeded 21 million. About 23 per cent of the world's refugees are from Syria, 4 million 900,000. The problem of civil war refugees in Syria also has a profound impact on our country. Unfortunately, the problem of refugees in our country is becoming increasingly complicated and, so to speak, forks. The Turkish nation is a noble and hospitable nation, who will never shy away from sharing their table and are happy to embrace the victims, and its historical past is full of hundreds of examples. However, the number of undocumented refugees across reasonable borders leads to social, political, economic and cultural problems. One of the areas of this problem is peace and security. Scientific research points out that as the demographic data of the Syrians differ from the social fabric of the province, the local population's sense of threat and insecurity is increasing; scientific research, reports state this way. This also has the potential to fuel interethnic and sectarian polarization in some provinces. The refugee problem is more than just a foreign policy tool, and in our country there are significant sociological and demographic problems. The government must analyze the refugee problem in all its aspects and find solutions before possible problems arise. The refugee issue in our country has also covered the healthcare sector. The refugees in our country have opened underground clinics and have also started to operate in the health sector. These clinics also claim to have employees with fake diplomas. Sub-stairs health care also threatens public health in our country. We're wondering if the government has studied and studied in this direction. If not, does the government condone these clinics in accordance with foreign medicine policy? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0041par0178	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. The second word is Mr. Demirelin of the Ages. Here you go, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0042par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. June 20 -- yesterday -- was set to be the day that the United Nations' contract on the legal status of refugees was adopted in 1951, but today, in our country, there are very few places in the world where there is conflict and war, with which the number of refugees is increasing, and we see people moving to other countries other than wars and conflicting environments and working in Turkey heavily. We know that although there are at least 3,000 refugees here, both from the internal migration and from outside, especially for refugees from the war in Syria, many of them are in the AFAD camps, and they are in the AFAD camps, but I would like to stress once again that the unjust, illegal practices, and conditions of violence and life have also been revealed as a result of investigations that are very bad. So on World Refugee Day, I would like to repeat once again the basis for the need for peace and freedom, free from war and conflict. And yesterday, really, we faced a process in terms of human rights -- let me tell you -- in terms of Turkey's future. You know, one day of solidarity for the editorship of Özgür Gündem daily, writers and activists, when they went there for support, unfortunately they were handcuffed and sent to prisons. This is a great shame for Turkey. In private in Turkey, for peace...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0043par0186	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0042par0187	Only those who have gone for solidarity with Özgür Gündem daily; Mr. Şebnem Korır Fincancı and Ahmet Nesin and Erol Erdoğan who have been arrested and handcuffed on charges of organization propaganda have once again shown the situation in Turkey. We, in fact, see again that this situation is not independent of other processes that have occurred, and in this particular case, academics, writers, not ordinary people, but people who have spent years defending human rights and have served in many areas, working in NGOs. If by one day of solidarity, people are left in prisons and handcuffed, it's a picture of shame on the world's front for Turkey. Yes, they have a history because they fought for peace and freedom. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0043par0189	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. The third word is Mr. Free Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0044par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. It was World Refugee Day yesterday, as the members of the group said, and Turkey is experiencing one of the largest migrations, migration waves, and one of its greatest dramas in human history, especially in our recent history, and in terms of refugees. As the Republican People's Party, they shared with the public a study by our Commission on Migration and Migration Problems, which was shared with the press and public yesterday -- called the Doctor of Humanity from the Humanity Exam and all their work, by booking their reports. We will share this report with the country's parliaments, which should be both in Arabic and in English, between refugees and the partners of the refugee problem and that we should be looking for solutions together. The group proposal, which another group has brought in today, will also present our group's views on the refugee issue. Regarding seasonal agricultural workers, there was another accident yesterday in Elazığ, and nine workers lost their lives, and two seasons of agricultural workers were severely injured. We will all remember that in July 2015, a research commission proposed repeatedly by our group had been established on 11 November 2014, after 15 workers and 17 workers were killed in the district of Yalvaç, Isparta, in November 2014. The report of the parliamentary research commission, which was completed in March 2015, which could begin its work on January 13, 2015, was unfortunately not handled by the end of the 24th term. I will address all party groups, the ruling party and the members of the Parliament's research commission report in the 24th term with a special agenda and address the proposals of the relevant ministries here to address the problems of seasonal agricultural workers and the lives of a large number of agricultural workers...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0045par0199	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0044par0200	...in the course of this process, we feel that the 24th-century report should be handled by Parliament, without causing similar fatal accidents and similar dramas, and we hope that such a study will be supported by political parties in the coming days, which we will bring up in parliament. In addition, Ilhan Selçuk died on June 21, 2010. You know, Ilhan Selçuk Ziverbey was tortured by coupkers in Ziverbey Mansion on September 12th, and he reported it to Turkey with the first letters of his writings, and unfortunately he was charged with membership in a terrorist organization before he died. After a conflict with the people involved in the subcontractor relationship that day, Ilhan Selçuk said that those who called Selçuk a terrorist on that day should apologize in his spiritual presence in the House today, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0045par0202	Thank you, Mr. Special. The last word is for Mr. Bulent Turan. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0046par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, yesterday was World Refugee Day. More than 65 million people live far and wide today because of the massacres and atrocities that have occurred before the eyes of the world. That number increased by 5 million last year. Which means the refugee issue is, unfortunately, number one among our human crises. This problem is not a political problem, it's a human problem. It's our common responsibility to build a world where refugees can look with hope. Thankfully, more than a politician, as an honorable citizen of the Republic of Turkey, our country's view of refugees and refugee policy make us proud. Turkey is trying to do its part in the face of humanitarian drama caused by the biggest wave of migration since World War II. According to the UN report, Turkey is the country with the most refugees. On this occasion, I wish to remind all mankind of the responsibilities of World Refugee Day. Thank you again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0047par0210	Thank you, Mr. Turan. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research; I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures to be taken by identifying the issues of the province of Hatay, we respectfully submit the need for the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of our Constitution, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. 1) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Aydın]] 8) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] 13) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[Sakarya]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Samsun]] The province of Hatay is the 13th largest city in our country, with a population of 1,519,836 in 2014, and is located east and south, in Syria, in the Mediterranean, in the northwest, in Adana, in the north, in Osmaniye, and in the northeast. In the 1970s in Alexanderun, Turkey's third iron steel factory, Alexanderun's industrial potential developed by the establishment of the Iron and Steel Ash. Alexander's Bay today has become the largest iron steel processing and production site, but despite high industrial employment, Hatay has an unemployment rate of 12.2 per cent higher than 70 provinces in Turkey, according to 2013. The high cost of electricity energy and fuel used as a production input by farmers across Hatay has caused great distress in the Amik Plain, the drought in the summer, and the lack of efficiency in the winter. There are problems in our province in the logistics sector for exports. Due to the closing of the border crossings of the Jailvel Eye and Yayladak, exports on land have come to a complete halt, and competition has been lost in a wide geography. Ro-Ro transport, developed for problems in the logistics sector, is not enough to address problems. In our province, especially industry, energy distribution and electricity infrastructure must be strengthened in order to reduce the production of SMEs and overall power outages that affect trade negatively. The civil war in Syria and the political migration with it have affected the region's geography, which borders Syria. According to the UN forecast, it is estimated that the number of refugees in neighbouring countries in Syria will be near 5m and that number will exceed 2.5 million in Turkey. Currently, some 300,000 Syrian asylum seekers live in camps with the resources provided by our government. Other than shelter camps, hundreds of thousands of people live in our country. The longest land border between Şırnak, Mardin, Şanlıurfa, Gaziantep and Kilis, bordered by Syria (31.5%) is the province of Hatay. Thus, Hatay is the head of our most affected provinces in Syria. There is also a smuggling of goods in the country during the Syrian crossing. In fact, some of the Syrians regularly deal with smuggling goods into the country. A variety of goods brought in this way are sold either in the streets or in the workplaces they open. This is a necessity to take measures related to the issue, since it has had a negative impact on the people of the district. In the face of a population that the cities cannot handle, municipal services remain inadequate and various problems arise. Despite its potential for tourism, faith and cultural tourism, Hatay's lack of protection and the potential for tourism is a key problem. Hatay's problems in the area of the city's economy include high unemployment, industrial problems and the weakening of industrial-technology relations. The rise in real estate prices, along with the population of immigrants from Syria, is one of the main problems. Many companies have difficulty competing with the world because of the crisis in which 40 per cent of Turkey's iron steel production took place and the financial pressure over all the producers in the sectors of Alexanderun and Fouryol, where 18,000 workers worked in its facilities. As a result of the painful prescription for what happened, companies begin to produce workers and stop production at the top of problems that need immediate solutions. It is beneficial for parliament to open its research to determine the measures to be taken by identifying the problems that Hatay, a major member of our country's provinces, has experienced. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, unsecured and flexible work has been transformed into an unemployment ranta, making it a cheap labour market based on labour exploitation. For this reason, he was in print and in the visual media, where the ISKUR made purchases on the family and party bond, even in the program's temporary recruitment of workers. In order to investigate complaints about İSKUR, media claims, and to address permanent and guaranteed business opportunities for our citizens, we propose and provide for the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Constitution. [[Siirt]] 2) Meral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Pain]] [[Pain]] 6) The Leader of the Secret [[Ankara]] 7) Ayşe Acar Başaran [[Batman]] 8) Mehmet Ali Aslan [[Batman]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hakkari]] 22) Mehmet Emin Adıyaman [[Lug]] [[İstanbul]] The aims of the Community Benefit Program (TYP), which was put into practice by Turkey's Employment Agency (İSKÜR) in Article 2/11/11/2011 into Article 4 of Law (of Law No. 5510), "are the programs run by the IPUR in order to ensure that the unemployed who have difficulty in their employment by implementing a job or service in public use, especially in order to avoid the habit and discipline of working and provide temporary income for them." It is expressed. According to the legislation, notary theory, list method and 80 per cent notary theory are held in three ways -- the notary method of notarizing citizens who have been temporarily employed to work for no more than 45 hours a week for nine months. According to TÜİK data, the unemployment rate of September 2014 was 10.1 per cent, while in September 2015 the number of unemployed increased by 39,000 people in the same period last year, increasing by 3,33,000. According to TÜİK, the unemployment rate of September 2015 was 10.3 per cent. It is also estimated at 12.4 per cent in the same period, with a reduction of 0.3 points from non-agricultural unemployment. In addition, the highest unemployment rates are found in the Kurdish region as a natural result of the inequality of opportunity between regional investment and industry. TÜİK data also show that the highest unemployment rate is 15.6 per cent in the Southeast Anatolian region. Depending on this, Mardin, Batman, Siirt and Şırnak are the highest Kurdish cities in unemployment. In addition to the highest level of unemployment, these cities are the lowest jobs with 34.8 per cent. Despite the fact of unemployment in our country, there have been complaints that the Program for Society benefit has not been properly implemented. So we're getting information that unemployment has been abused by AKP county and county executives. In particular, in the past few years, the use of the interview method in the hiring of workers has strengthened their claims that there have been benefits in society through family and party ties. In particular, this concern has been developed by our citizens, when the notary theory left hiring after 2012 to begin interviewing. 80 per cent of the workers received in the press last year (2013) were received by lottery, while 20 per cent were taken by power channel in my constituency, Siirt. According to the allegations last year, there was a major dispute between the ISKUR manager and the AKP's then-time mayor, who, despite the ISKUR manager's insistence on drawing, was finally able to break a quota of 20 per cent. This year (2014) the ruling party announced it would receive 100 per cent of the interview by taking the whole cake in its hand." His claims have been made. This year's June 7th and November 1st elections included allegations of party propaganda in writing and visual media that the EC PARTY made several commitments with the ISKUR to collect votes from unemployed citizens and that there were meetings with ISKUR employees. Although it is the government's duty to create permanent and guaranteed employment, unemployment has been turned into a runt, along with unsecured and flexible work during the AKP period. With temporary solutions, unemployment has become a cheap labor market based on labour exploitation. Even in the temporary hiring of TYP workers, our citizens have been victimised by labour exploitation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the need to open a parliamentary investigation under Article 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution in order to ensure that the AKP's external policy of bankruptcy has been made, that our people will not be harmed by bankruptcy policies and structural political changes will be created. The AKP's foreign policy, which has been introduced with its motto "zero problems" as part of Turkey's resilience of foreign policy based on multi-relations and regional power, has remained distant from understanding strategic transformations in the Middle East and the Arab world, although it has a strategic claim to depth. Not realizing that social resistance in the Arab Spring and civil war in Syria carry structural political change energy, the AKP's government, which, when all the cards fail in the Middle East, has become the only solution to not winning the rights of Kurds, has become lonely in foreign policy, with only one country associated with the diplomatic plane. The AKP has failed to resolve the Arab Peninsula and the developing political processes in the Middle East, but has missed a train that will bring its say in the Middle East with an alliance possible with Kurds. In this painting, ironically ironic under the name valued loneliness, Turkey is out of the game in the process of redesigning the Middle East. The four specific foreign policies that left Turkey out of the game can be given as examples. Assad's anti-Assad anti-gang support in the civil war that began in Syria is one of the main reasons for political bankruptcy. Another and the most important reason is the hostility of the peoples in Rojava to form their own self-government through cantons. In Iraq, the AKP's foreign policy, which has been trying to establish Sunni line politics from the beginning, sent soldiers to Başika. All the states of the world, especially Iraq and the United States, reacted to sending troops to Başika, and only a day or two after the President said that our troops would not withdraw. The soldiers were removed from Başika. In addition to Syria and Iraq, relations with Israel also point to one of the bankruptcy scenes of foreign policy. It was reportedly frozen in 2010 after the incident with Blue Marmara. During the time of the freeze of relations, President Erdogan made several statements against Israel and laid out several conditions for the start of relations. Erdoğan downloads 400 tons of bombs in a speech dated July 13, 2014, bomb. It's terror, terrorism. Let Turkey-Israel normalize. Okay. I said, "They will apologize, they will give compensation, they will remove the embargo to Palestine." The bombs are landing again. There is no way that we can begin the process of normalisation with Israel. He used his expressions. In addition to being employed by gangs in Syria rather than dealing with the peoples of autocton, including Kurds, the removal of Iraqi sovereignty without respect for the rights of sovereignty, the failure of the European Union, Russia and the relations with the United States, despite the fact that the Gazze blockade continued, and the re-starting of relations with the $20m, as well as the fact that relations with the Kurds have been compromised. It is so difficult for Turkey to find a state that will establish diplomatic relations in the world. Turkey is subject to future concerns on the country's sath, as it cannot be removed from ideological obsessions in foreign policy with the AKP's power and the fact that mystical longings for the past do not match the reality of today. AKP's bankrupt foreign policy both feeds domestic tensions in Turkey and causes Turkey to lose no side role in the international arena. The approach to Israel, which is viewed by the AKP as a cure for Turkey's escape from its precious irony, is essentially the seal of bankruptcy at the door of foreign policy. Because it is much more than a diplomatic approach between the two countries to normalize when Israel has not accepted any of the AKP's requirements. In addition to religious line-based foreign policy, Turkey raises its foreign policy, which has collapsed in connection with Israel. Yet, to take on a manner that does not see and hear the persecution of states and states still does not understand the process of change in the Middle East. In the end, Turkey is in great chaos today because of AKP foreign policy. The TBMM (TBMM) must immediately step in and form a proper foreign policy. Because the cost of AKP's bankruptcy in foreign policy is greater than its own. In this scope, it stands as proposals for dealing with peoples and not the leaders of persecution and gangs in foreign policy and for equal strategic alliances with the political power of Kurds both inside and outside. These suggestions can be enriched. First, however, the Turkish Parliament must step in on AKP's bankrupt foreign policy. In this regard, we demand a parliamentary investigation into the AKP's foreign policy -- especially Iraq and Syria -- to ensure that the declaration of bankruptcy policies prevents our people from being harmed and structural political changes will be created. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly, under Article 19 of the Council of Ministers, at a meeting held on Tuesday (21/06/2016). On 21 June 2016, the parliamentary research motion given to the Turkish Parliament in order to establish a refugee policy under comprehensive and international refugee law, was proposed to be presented before other motions given by Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel (297 rows) in the same day's session of 21/06/2016, in which women and children face violence. In favor of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal and against it, I will make a pledge to the members of parliament -- the first speaker in favour is Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan, Van MP. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0048par0356	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the research motion we submitted as HDP. Dear lawmakers, I would like to begin by saying that yesterday, without law, the decision to arrest Mr. Professor Dr. Şebnem Kordar Fincancı, writer Ahmet Nessin and Journalists Without Borders Representative to Turkey Erol Bashoglu is purely political, that our friends have been chosen privately, and that there are clear messages that mean pressure and threat to scientists, journalists and writers. We know that this decision is not absolutely legal in the form of public conscience, but in the interest of intimidation against those who have been writing, writing, and exposing the violence in Kurdish provinces over the past year, which has brought the crimes committed in the basements of atrocities in Cizre with scientific facts. These three of our friends have been editor-in-chief for just one day for the past year, to remind the Özgür Gündem daily that journalism is not a crime and to draw attention to it. Today, the whole world speaks and condemns this arrest decision politically against the names and environments, not legally, but carefully chosen. The decision is not legal, nor is it legitimate. Remember, history will remember not the judge who signed this decision with instructions, but those three names and journalists who were imprisoned in prisons for journalism. Dear lawmakers, more and more people in the world are forced to leave the land where they live every year, while some of them migrate to places in the country, while others are forced to leave the country where they live. As a result, the world faces a refugee population that has never existed since World War II. Millions of people who have fled their country's wars, oppressive regimes, torture or murder have today had to take refuge in other countries and continue to stay. The refugees who fled their home country to save their lives continue to fight for survival in the countries they have gone to. In general, we use the concept of the immunist, but in refugee law, concepts were defined separately for the purpose of setting status. According to the 1951 Geneva Convention, where Turkey sided with the geographical recession, those from Turkey from the West are refugees, but those from the East are subject to asylum procedure; those coming with mass movements are subject to temporary protection procedures. Those who come from Syria from 2011 are the ones who should be under this temporary protection. However, Turkey did not recognise a status by calling groups who had been coming in since the early years of civil war, and they were often used for manipulation. Over the past period, the number of asylum seekers in Turkey has increased by over 3 million. Only 260,000 of these populations remain at AFAD camps, where no civilian control is allowed. The AKP's government says it does its humanitarian duty at every turn and welcomes those from Syria. However, the responsibility of governments is to determine a status for these people and to make the framework of this status fit for universal human values. Remember, no one will willingly leave their own land, their memories, their graves, the values that exist as a sociological being, and they don't want to leave. Refugeery is not a choice, it's just a necessity that can happen to anyone one day. Dear lawmakers, we have repeatedly talked about the violence, discrimination, cheap labor force of refugees in our country, women and children being dragged into prostitution and sexually abused, and we have asked them to be investigated. On the other hand, we have repeatedly asked the ministries about rights violations, torture deaths, judicial executions in borders, abuses, missing refugee children, including life violations at the send-back centers. However, so far, no parliamentary research has been accepted, and all the questions we've asked have remained unanswered. Just because human rights environments and rights advocates have worked hard and have been forced to open some cases doesn't mean that the problem has been dealt with. There are no active investigations in these investigations, and the perpetrators remain unpunished. I'd just like to give you a little example: last year, a trial was launched at the send-back center of a man claiming to have been killed by police torture. For a full year, however, no positive steps have been taken, and no further steps have been taken. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy has never been involved, and it's already showing its sincerity in this matter. Many environments have also been denied intervention requests, only today's trial has been granted the intervention of the network of lawyers working in the field of children. Let's hope there's an effective investigation. As I have just stated, refugees and refugees in all Turkey and in the AFAD camps, where only 10 per cent of the total population of refugees remain, want to leave Turkey immediately because of their discrimination and right violations. I'm afraid they're abandoned to human traffickers out of desperation. Until the talks with the EU to re-enactment agreement began, we were getting reports of hundreds of people who were drowned every day in the Mediterranean. The photos of the baby's lifeless body are still in our memory. But it is strange that, after the beginning of the negotiations, mortal events in the Mediterranean were suddenly cut off. This is proof that Turkey can take the necessary measures if it wants to. A human trafficker who was connected to a television program with live broadcasts, without hesitation, had already expressed his consent. And even that statement has made it clear that the government is seeking an account through refugees. In any way, the government has not even handled the human drama of refugees in basic human criteria, but has proved that in Turkey, they have seen them as a cheap labor force, not only as blackmail material for the European Union, but by allowing them to work on the conditions of slavery in the 19th century Europe. We can give you many more examples. You have made it very clear that the torture at AFAD camps, which we know is systematic, especially rape, is the purpose of covering up crimes committed there, not opening up to the control of NGOs, independent observers or political parties. Unfortunately, the crimes committed there are covered up, and the responsible public officials remain protected. Now that you've welcomed us, since we've done our duty to humanity, let's look into what's happening in these camps, the allegations that have been made, together, by setting up a research commission. As a result, I'd like to point out that the main cause of migration is war. You can't solve this problem by preventing migration or by taking anti-immigration measures. First, you must take steps to stop the wars and conflicts that have caused everyone to leave their homeland. Finally, reminding you that the right to asylum is a basic human right, I say to all of you that Turkey should create a new asylum system for refugees and to remove the condition immediately after the geographical withdrawal of the 1951 Geneva Convention.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0049par0371	Thank you, Mr. Ozky Ertan. The first speaker against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal is Ruhi Ersoy, Osmaniye MP. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0050par0375	Mr. President, on behalf of my group, I salute our General Assembly. We're on a commission to discuss refugee issues. First of all, we find it meaningful that the motion was given within itself, in accordance with the meaning and significance of the day. In addition to finding it meaningful, let us discuss the issue of the Human Rights Commission of Turkey, the distribution of the General Assembly's general duties. After discussing the rights or problem in the Human Rights Commission with its top title, a joint decision has been established by all parties to understand this issue, to understand it, to understand the issue, and to inform the public more, and to establish its name as the Subcommittee of the Subcommittee Rights Subcommittee. There is this Commission, and it also has representatives of all the political parties in parliament, and I think that while I respect the work of each commission, the Subcommittee of Refugee Rights, which I'm a member of, in fact, has been very thorough and has been closely monitoring the developments in Turkey, as well as continuing theoretical and practical fieldwork. Beyond this brief knowledge, I would like to remind you that this matter is a common problem for mankind, far beyond being a matter of Turkey. As of today, the statements of the United Nations General Secretariat have once again expressed that truth. Ban Ki-moon, I express with my own conscience that we can't deal with this problem enough and we can't make a solution. He's using his expression. When we looked at the country, after the Syrian crisis in our daily lives, Turkey began to feel much closer about it. Turkey began to see this truth with the demographical presence of Syrian guests who now live among us in some of our cities, especially in some of our cities, who have been seen as beggars in the streets, but the fate of this geography has shown itself by the fact that for the past three centuries, many people in their country have been having problems. Although these embraces seem to be a burden to this land within themselves in the first place, we see that in time, these human resources have become opportunity, blending us, combining our culture into a human resource dynamic. As of today, it's still too early to say a few words about the situation in our country that is similar to that of about 3 million Syrians. It may or may not be a negative or a different interpretation of these sentences in a world where we have our own citizens who suffer it in daily life, but when we consider in a sociological sense, not the life of an individual, but the lives of states, I would like to remind you that if today, the Republic of Turkey, by taking the necessary measures with a vision, it will be able to evaluate these human resources very well with its strategies, it will turn into positive jobs in the future. So I think there should be a public message that there are multi-qualified, qualified human resources among the Syrian refugees who have arrived. I think it would be helpful to show the existence of people who have been constantly exposed to negatives on the streets, disadvantaged people, stories of people who have brought value to our country, people who have brought value to our country as science, Turkey's public, the Turkish nation. On the other hand, as of today, 5 million people had to leave their homes after the Syrian crisis. 3 million of this fell into Turkey's shares. Today has been announced that the number of refugees in the world has reached 63.5 million. On average, 24 people in the world have to leave their homes in two minutes. 3.2 million people have applied for asylum in developed countries. The countries that provide the most refugees -- because of their country's problems -- Syria, Afghanistan and Somalia; 54 per cent of all refugees are being distributed to the world from these three countries. Since 2011, 5 million people have become refugees in Syria. Turkey is the country that hosts the refugees most; Turkey is trying to deal with this problem with the Turkish nation, along with its great family, with the spirit of social solidarity, even though it is far above the existing conditions of Turkey. But I also want to express something remarkable from here. It's called the story of our land, but it's got a Turkish yeast, Turkish yeast. The main backbone in the story of this land is what we call the founding will, the will of this Turkish nation, which represents the founding philosophy of the republic. Well, why don't you say it's the will of the nation of Islam? He's closed the borders on Arabia. Qatar, as of today, explains that he will spend over $100 billion on the World Cup in 2022, but is there any help or asylum seekers in Qatar? No. I mean, I think we have a little bit of a relationship as a government, and we're going to this Qatar, and we're having the King of Arabia here, and we're having him over, so do something for God's sake, and we'll remind him that you'll be good at the holy day of Ramadan. On the other hand, Europe has shown its own strictness in this regard, unfortunately, by its double standards. Although relatively Germany is a little bit more open than the others, it is sad for mankind to see that these events have been treated more intrinsically, more intrinsically, more intrinsically, more intrinsically, more intrinsically, more intrinsically, more intrinsically, intrinsically, intrinsically. So what is the solution to these problems? When we looked at the question, we counted three countries: Syria, Afghanistan, Somalia; especially Syria. If there are efforts to resolve problems in these countries, we feel that these problems can be solved more quickly. We, the Refugee Rights Subcommittee, have observed the desire to go back to their country in the camps we've been to, the Syrians we've seen on the streets, young people in private. It's the common opinion of all our fellow lawmakers, they can express; they all want to return home. The government of the Republic of Turkey is not primarily responsible for looking at events in Syria; it should contribute to political developments here as an intervention, allowing a large part of Syria to return to its country with its relief. A state policy must quickly take into account the demographic conditions and the integration of a healthy state policy that is within itself and is not likely to return to its country, taking into account its legal process. In the camp conditions, 10 percent of these people live at most. Eight to 10 percent of people living in camps cannot live in this state for much longer. There are four-year camps in our country. When these camp conditions are eliminated, how are you going to integrate these people in the camp into life, what's going to be the problem with that, these are huge questions. In this scope, we propose a visionary foreign policy, especially in terms of foreign policy involved in the Syrian issue, to be closely monitored and to prepare the ground for their return to their country as soon as possible, and in particular, we think strategic interventions, actions should be made in Turkey about the potential to be converted into kinetic. In fact, as a result, Turkey is continuing its current activities on a commission within the Grand National Assembly, and again I declare that we do not consider the necessity of working under this motion, and salute our General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0051par0388	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. The second speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Selina Doğan, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0052par0392	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the People's Democratic Party group for the problems of asylum seekers. I salute you all. The problem of immigration is as old as human history. Asia Minor, head of the most affected geography of the migrations, has been an immigration site for many communities, because of its advantages throughout history, such as proper climate conditions, ports, fertile grasslands, and so on. In Anatolia, the first major migration is known as the migration of peoples from the Balkans, called the Ege Migration of the Ege (Ege Migration) in the 1200th century B.C.E. After this wave of migration, dozens of peoples have chosen Anatolia as an immigration route, and we owe some of the multicultural structure of Anatolia. For example, the Jews of Sephard, who live in this land today, came to the Ottoman Empire on ships from Spain in 1492. Again, today, the Circics, which now became the main element of this land, came to Anatolia with a great wave of migration in 1864. The use of the printing press, one of the most important developments in our history, was thanks to Abraham Almighty, an immigrant. Here, we believe that the Syrian asylum seekers, whom many of us today look to as guests, will take their place in history the next day as an important wealth of these lands. The refugees you see as guests today will become citizens who have as many rights as we do the day after tomorrow. Therefore, I think we should approach the problem this way. Dear lawmakers, Europe faces the biggest wave of migration since World War II. According to the latest UN data, the total population of refugees in the world has been 65 million and 5 million refugees in the last year. Turkey is hosting the most refugees in the world with 3 million people as the most important port of this migration route. Of course, we have to give the people who have to live thousands of miles from their homes, their homes, our help, our convenience. However, we need to examine the reasons for this migration. About 400,000 people lost their lives, 11 million were replaced, and about 5 million people left the country after the sixth civil war in Syria, which is the most important source of this migration. Under the deepening of the refugee crisis lies the wrong and unpredictable Syrian policy followed by the AKP (AKP). The foreign policy, called the strategic depth of the AKP (AKP), was plunged into the swamp in Syria, as it did all over the world. The AKP government, in a religious sense, arrived at Damascus in three hours. With dreams like that, it provoked the war in Syria to show that it could not read foreign policy and international balances, in a sense supporting the loss of millions of lives. The AKP's foreign policy in its visionless and dreamland calculated that refugees who came here would return to their country, thinking that a change of government would soon take place in Syria, but the account at home did not fit the market. As there was no change in government in Syria, the country was dragged into a civil war that entered its sixth year. The AKP, which initially called 100,000 refugees our red line, is currently seeking solutions for 3 million Syrian refugees in Turkey. The AKP's approach to refugees in our country, especially the Syrians, is far from a right-based and modern approach. Refugees in our country are subjected to intense human rights violations and are used as a bargaining factor for AKP's political interests. This includes a re-enactment agreement, as if by the Dark Middle Ages, to buy and sell slaves. The AKP and the European Union have negotiated a deal that undermines human dignity, a basic human right to immigration, a right to a better life, hand in hand. We, the CHP, would like to explain once again that we see this agreement as interstate human trafficking. [[Applause from CHP rows]] As part of the agreement, how much money has come from Europe, will the remaining money be paid, where is the money being spent, and where will the rest be spent? These are all questions that need to be answered by power. Congressmans, we, the CHP, are doing research on all the problems of the country, building commissions, visiting provinces, and offering solution proposals. So we set up a commission for asylum seekers, we worked for months, we visited camps, we listened to asylum seekers' problems, we met with academics, we worked hard with NGOs, and in the end, we prepared this book that you saw in my hand, and we made our report into a book, and I wish you all to read it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We're sorting out our solution proposals in this book. There's a fact that when we're preparing our report, the academics we've been talking to tell us that even if peace comes to these people one day, 60 percent of immigrants usually don't go back to their country and 70 percent of them don't. So, given their stay here, it is imperative to develop policies that fit. Given that the children who were born here first opened their eyes here, their first memories, their first steps were here, these lives will now be built here, their homeland will be Turkey. Every day we're going to be late, it's going to zoom in on the 10 grand that's been dragged into crime, and if we don't take precautions soon, the beggar children on our streets, who we can't look into their eyes, are going to increase by the day. Precious lawmakers, only about 10 per cent of the Syrian refugees in our country live in camps, and others, in various provinces of Turkey, are fighting for their lives outside. It is thought that the camps were safe, but it is not -- the last time we saw the Nizip Refugee Camp -- 12-13-year-old girls are being sold as second wives, dragged into prostitution, and their futures are being stolen. Now, I'd like to move on to our solution proposals, but before that, there are some refugee areas that have never been mentioned. For example, Turkey has over 50,000 non-Muslim refugees, with different problems. There are disabled asylum seekers, LGBTI asylum seekers; their problems are not even mentioned. We're not just expressing problems, we're offering solutions. As the Republican People's Party, to sort out our proposals for solutions, asylum seekers and refugees should be dealt with with with by an understanding not in the axis of religious references and temporary solutions, but in search of right-based and permanent solutions. Aids to refugees should not be presented as a blessing, benefits should be included in the welfare of the state and should be based on rights. Most Syrian refugees, considered a guest at the first stage, but later granted temporary protection status, should be considered permanent in our country. As soon as the geographical withdrawal of the 1951 Geneva Convention should be removed, and most importantly for us, an immigration and integration ministry must be established immediately, the issue must be taken away from institutions such as the Immigration Administration and the AFAD, and restored to a more tidy structure. In international agreements, a righteous share of burdens with Europe must be made for people who want to return under the right to emigrate. One of the most important steps in solving the refugee crisis is, of course, the immediate end of the wars in the Middle East. The fight against terrorist organisations must be done effectively, decisively and quickly. Racist, segregating and exclusive rhetoric and practices aimed at refugees and refugees in our country should not be tolerated. Repatriation centers and refugee camps must be kept open for visits and supervision by NGOs and political party officials under the principle of transparency. Civil control should be increased in the functioning of these centers. So, for all these reasons, we say that we will vote in favor of the group proposal submitted by the People's Democratic Party. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0053par0413	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. The second and final speaker against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Atay Aldı, Antalya MP. Here you go, Mr. Nice Guy.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0054par0417	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. You know, yesterday was the World Refugee Day of June 20th. On the occasion of Refugees' Day, I would like to express that we have requested that all refugees return home, return to their homes, return to their homes, return to their homes, and work for this purpose. Congressmans, I have been sworn in against the HDP proposal. Because we've established the Subcommittee for Refugee Rights within the Human Rights Commission. We established this Commission with the joint proposal of all political parties. In CHP, in HDP, in the MPP, he wanted this Commission to be established, we formed and started working in a joint way. So far, we've had more than 15 meetings and studies. We've been to camps, we've heard about these institutions, we've heard about the academics, we've heard about the NGOs, we've heard about the representatives of international organisations. We do all kinds of work. On the way to the camps, I'm even asking my friends from the opposition party first which camp do you want to go to first? And we went to those camps, we studied them, and we'll continue to find them. Hopefully, we'll publish the report sometime after the holidays. As a result of this report, of course, there are issues that need to be improved, and we will share them with you, we will share them with the public, and we will continue our work. This is important. Our friends have just told us that this is not just the subject of Turkey, but also one of the most important agendas in Europe and the world. Let me put it this way: There's criticism that we can't go to any camp or go to any send-back center. There's nothing like that. The Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) members of the Commission immediately submit the proposal, we go to that camp, we study it, as well as we do. Dear friends, there are more than 60 million refugees living in the world today. You know what that means? The 25th largest state of the world consists of refugees. That's a really big number. There are also around 3 million refugees in Turkey, 2.8 million Syrians, Syrian people under temporary protection. Others, as well as some 200,000 others, are those whose name is expressed in the International Protection Act and the International Protection Act as refugees. Turkey currently has the most refugees in the world. This population of 3 million is greater than Malta, Slovenia, Estonia, Latvia, Luxembourg. 4 per cent of Turkey is made up of refugees. In Europe, this number is very low, there are no more asylum seekers in Europe than we are in 500 million, and the proportion of asylum seekers in Europe is not even four per thousand. Our policy, which embraces the underdogs, was yesterday, and today, and tomorrow. The Ottomans have welcomed the oppressed. In 1490, he sent his own ships and removed the persecuted Jews from Spain. Then he gave the King of Hungary and the King of Sweden the right to asylum. To those who fled Russia, to those who fled from the Bolshevik Revolution, and to those who fled from the Tsarial Russia. The same process continued during the Republic period. From 1923 to 2011, 1.7 million refugees arrived in Turkey, Turkey opened its doors. You know, there are some from the Balkans, some from Iraq, even some from Germany and Greece during World War II. As I just said, we've opened our home, our hearts, our doors to 3 million refugees. 280,000 of them live in camps, 26 housing centers, and we spent $10 billion in total. $10 billion in spending and spending, cost us $20 billion. Because there are spendings that aren't billed; NGOs have help, officers who work there have salaries, and with other expenses, they have this $20 billion. However, we've done the expense. We don't call it that because it's a human, conscientious, legal and historical mission. We keep doing this. We've opened our doors, our hearts, without looking at the costs, and we'll keep opening them, God willing. In doing so, we follow both international principles. One is open door policy, and the second is not to send it back. We apply these two principles in international law to the end. Many countries in the world can't apply it. The Geneva Convention was signed, the Geneva Convention was written, and the European countries today cannot apply the open door policy or the principle not to send it back, so people die in the Mediterranean. Of course, it's not easy to manage a 3 million immigrant in a five-year period. However, the entire world applauds us for the current process, saying: "You are running a very good process. I think our nation has a very important role in this process as well as our government. It's true, our governments and institutions carry out all the right-based approaches, but our nation has opened its heart to asylum seekers with principles beyond that, such as hospitality, compassion, neighborhood. If he hadn't, foreign hostility, like in Europe, would have increased. You're looking at Europe today, there's panic, there's panic in Denmark, there's panic in Austria, there's panic in Germany. But we're doing it right, and it's going on. The relevant institutions are working on it, folks. It has just been counted: AFAD, Immigration Administration General Directorate, Kızılay, Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Ministry of Health, Ministry of National Education, Labour Ministry, governorships, local governments, civil societies. When we took 2.17 million Syrians to Turkey, we gave them a status in terms of the Foreign and International Protection Act; it was called temporary protection status. What did we do first? We got their biometric records, then we gave them foreign ID numbers that started with 99, and they got foreign ID documents. With ID documents, they can access health, education, social aid, apply for work permits, change license plates of their vehicles; they can benefit from telecommunications, banking and notary services, and we provide them with other studies so that they can continue without need for third persons, and we also help them with life training in matters related to education. Health is an important issue, valuable lawmakers. In health, there's almost nothing wrong with asylum seekers. We've done over 15 million clinic services, over 300,000 surgeries. We have medical units in our camps. In other environments outside the camp, asylum seekers can also be treated by reaching our health centers. Education is important. There are over 800,000 children in the age of education, and only 350,000 of them have been able to reach education. Our goal is to achieve all of it, but it's not easy. 800,000 children are far greater than the number of children in many countries in Europe, and more than the number of students. We're also doing some work on him. You know, we're also doing studies on what curriculum to give, what to give, what to teach. Some of our children are in the Turkish education curriculum, and the other is in the Syrian curriculum. We got the textbooks and the curriculum, our Ministry of National Education did the necessary scans, and then he rewrote these books, and now he's in training. University life: More than 10,000 Syrian teenagers were admitted to university. Again, post-college or pre-college vocational courses -- I just told you -- more than 100,000 Syrians have now been certified from vocational courses in life education. Work permit: Harmony doesn't happen without a work permit. We also decided on the work permit in January, and now the Syrians can apply for a work permit and can work in Turkey. Their numbers are growing rapidly. Last week, even last week, our Ministry of Labor has edited, and the Syrian midwives will now be able to work in Turkey with the degree equivalences. We're still working on keeping up with the qualified labor force. Of course, kids: Children are very important. Currently 165,000 Syrian babies were born in Turkey, 55,000 babies were born last year. We do all kinds of work on them, and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is doing it, but here, I want to point out one thing, friends: what happens when we do this in Europe, what does Europe do? Friends, in Europe, in France, there was Camp Calais, last week Camp Calais was disbanded, 160 children disappeared. Germany confesses to Interpol, saying that 6,000 children of asylum seekers who came to us have disappeared, that Europe is insensitive to this matter. Europe is causing deaths in the Mediterranean, not opening its doors. Here, in the last five months, 2,500 have died of refugees who wanted to cross from Africa to Italy via the Italian Canal to Europe. Praise be to God, the deaths in the Aegean have stopped. We've started an agreement. We wanted people not to die, and now the deaths have stopped, but the deaths have shifted to the Mediterranean, and they continue. Twenty-five thousand refugees have died in the world in the last ten years. So, we set out so that this wouldn't happen, and while we're doing the work, you're looking at the European -- I just told you -- there are attacks on refugee camps. 757 refugee camps were attacked in Germany. We have different solutions, but I'd like to point out that after all this time, the Geneva Convention is governed by the current legal process, but we can't manage it. Here's the situation in Europe. There are attacks on shelters, fires, children disappearing. The world needs a new contract now. The location of this contract is Anatolia. The location of this contract... I've made it symbolic in the past few weeks. Let's put out the Gaziantep contract, so that people don't die, immigrants don't die, asylum seekers don't die. Let's put reciprocity in it. No assimilation policies. Today, refugees are quickly being Christianized in Europe. That's the kind of contract we offered to get us out of it. Friends, as a result, I say that we are against the HDP proposal, that we will continue to study these issues intensively in the subcommittee, that we will continue to study them, that we will go to the refugee center, whichever part of the democratic environment, and that we will go to, and I respect all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0055par0437	Thank you, Mr. Goody. I submit the proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0056par0439	Mr. President, in his speech, he expressed that HDP MPs could visit any camp they wanted, so there was no obstacle to it -- although we have previous demands -- and other than that, the information we gave was not true. I think we have a right to an answer to that.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0055par0440	You want to exercise your right to answer according to Article 69.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0056par0441	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0055par0442	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0056par0443	Mrs. Bedia...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0055par0444	Mr. Özce Ertan, come in. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0057par0448	Thank you, Mr. President. The orator just made some statements and some comments, so we think we should use the right to answer. Now, there's the Subcommittee Subcommittee, and we're going to all the camps and we're going to do our research, and we're going to share them soon. But this is your job, so go to the camps, I mean, and study what's going on there, and it's part of the legislation. But you took Merkel to the camp in Nizip, because it was our best camp, and you all remember what happened next. After 30 children's sexual abuses were revealed there, you quickly covered up the crime by framing one person and did not respond to our motion to investigate what happened there, which was rejected here. So we went as a party to the border of the camp in Nizip. We were not allowed in, nor were we allowed to meet in any way. Now, we also apply the open door principle and the principle of not sending it back. You proudly say that, but only on Sunday 11 Syrians were killed at the border. Independent observers have made it clear that these were killed by the Turkish military union, and Turkey has been punished many times by the European Court of Human Rights for sending them back. For example, seven witnesses were deported in the murder of the Afghan refugee Lütfullah Tajik, and the legal process is under way. Now, the deaths have stopped in the Aegean. You say, "But we open the borders, we send them all by bus." So human life isn't that cheap, you've just made it clear that you're using refugees as material against Europe, in a worthless way, just as blackmail material, so many of your policies are already showing that.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0058par0452	He answered them, Mr. President, it's not like that.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0057par0453	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0059par0455	Thank you, Mr. Ozky Ertan. I don't want to...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0060par0462	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit01spe0059par0463	There's a request for roll call before I put the proposal to a vote, which is why I'm going to grant the roll call. First, I'm going to identify the presence of lawmakers who have requested roll call. Mr. Doğan, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Şaşer, Mr. Altaca Kayşoğlu, Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Suziel, Mr. Kusoğlu, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Bektaşoğlu. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, starting roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0059par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the People's Democratic Party group's proposal, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 21/6/2016 Tuesday (now) meeting, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. [[Manisa]] Manisa MP and Group Deputy President Free Special's proposal for parliamentary research, which was submitted on 16/3/2016 to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in order to investigate issues regarding the registration of the unregistered economy in our country and securing access to funds, is no more than 377. It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the lu-General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations on Tuesday 21/6/2016 and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The Republican People's Party Group proposal is in favour of its proposal and I will make a pledge to the members of parliament who are demanding a word against it. The first speaker in his favour is Zechariah Azeziel, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Cleanel.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0061par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, this Parliament has seen a lot of motions so far, especially on the investigation of the informal economy, but we would like to submit to your knowledge that the Republican People's Party Group's motion, which will be discussed today, is slightly different from previous motions. Because with this motion, there's no attempt to create a criminal, no effort to undermine a government, and there will be no different words to be said as a message. We're going to try to establish the reasons for a work that needs to be done on behalf of the economy. With this motion, the Republican People's Party Group aims to make our state prepared for some future troubles, to protect our country from the sanctions of international institutions, by doing its part as soon as possible. I would like to repeat this statement again: With this motion, the Republican People's Party, by doing its part in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as soon as possible to prepare our state for the challenges we face, to avoid and protect our country from the sanctions of international institutions. In our research proposal, we say, very simply, in the beginning: let the dimensions of non-regularity in the economy be determined. Let's look into that. After that, it's said, let's sort out what needs to be done about the investigation of the unregistered. Dear friends, I don't think there's anyone among us who thinks differently about off the books. We agree to off the record, but we have different opinions about their size. Some say it goes up to the 50 percent, some say it goes down to the 30 percent; it may be even lower, no problem. But it's not about the numbers off the books, it's not about the tax action here, it's not about the mandatory participation here. It's a very important event to eliminate the other thorns that grow in the unregistered swamp, in this swamp created by unregisteredness. In the beginning, non-responsibility is considered to be a very innocent mechanism for protection against economic difficulties or against the weight of taxes -- no matter what the reason. But behind this innocent approach, there are different plants growing in this swamp, poisonous plants, and they're headed by money. That's why he cares so much about it, so we'd like to make sure that it's too much to worry about. Otherwise, if you take off-books as just a number, you can easily say that our GDP for 2016 is $2.2 trillion, if there's about 30 per cent off the books, that's $630 billion. On top of that, a mandatory obligation, tax and insurance premiums are only 15 per cent; 10 per cent from one, 5 per cent from the other, that's about $90 billion. He'll cover your budget deficit, and you'll say he'll cover the deficit of social security, but it doesn't matter. It has to be focused on, but the important thing is to focus on the other one. Dear friends, what we're trying to draw attention to is that the money that grows in this swamp changes the country's international position. This is the black-money swamp, and especially the black-money guys that grow up here, and then they start using their income to finance terrorism, and here's what we really need to focus on, and as Congress, we need to take precautions as soon as possible. In terms of money laundering, I said it's different from the previous research... the money laundering is not the problem of a single country, the money is an international problem, so it's a problem that all countries are very interested in. For this reason, the regulations made in this regard are that the OECD Financial Action Group regularly determines what to do about it, which operations are considered suspicious and must be followed in the eyes of countries. When the subject of unsubsubstantiated operations on these issues starts to come up, for this country, those countries don't hesitate to throw this country into a group of money launderers. What happens if you get thrown out? What happens, what happens, what happens? Here's the sanction: he's being investigated for every single dollar transfer from import to export. Even sending out a student scholarship is a big problem. Those who have suffered from this swamp are not only these institutions; they are Turkey's financial institutions; Turkey's financial institutions are unable to perform any transactions. Therefore, if there are measures that we need to take through all the details of this matter, we would strongly and certainly recommend that they be taken. Dear friends, some of the arrangements we've made recently are, unfortunately, some of the arrangements that could support our being accused of this. Due to some obligations, for example, regulations on the money brought with them by the Syrians in any way not to ask for resources, not to be followed, not to be considered as a suspicious procedure, are one of the factors that will be a source for these investigations. In making this arrangement, it was possible to make arrangements to prevent harmful elements that would pass through the door, revealing that it was an obligation for certain individuals. As a result of such research, it will likely be possible to do so. I'm afraid it doesn't work to say that we don't account for these things. Because whoever's in charge of economic domination in the one polar world is coming to enforce these sanctions in your country. Hopefully, one day the world will be free of such a one-polar world and a state phenomenon capable of implementing these sanctions on its own, but that's the way it is now. It's not just our country. Due to their irregular behavior, the banks of different countries are seriously burdened with obligations. And they have to accept them because they can't stand up to the bosses of that financial division. For example, France's Paribas has perfectly accepted a $9 billion fine, paying it, $9 billion. Germany's Commerzbank has agreed to a fine of close to $1 billion. We have to protect our banks against these events that could happen to our banks tomorrow. There's no point in saying, "Oh, my God." In the first paragraph of most of the charges against Turkey, there are sentences that say that Turkey has not done enough to launder money and that there are no necessary initiatives in these matters. At the very least, when this motion is raised in parliament and the study is launched, the Turkish Grand National Assembly follows the currents of black money growing within the informal economy... And after they've been watched, we've been watching them, and we're going to be able to say that there's no black money or suspicious transactions going on around here. It's possible to talk about this for hours, but without creating more polemics, I'm telling you very clearly that right now, in the process of globalization, I'm saying that the entire decision that was created there is due to the obligation to comply, unfortunately, or I'm afraid it's not due to the principles that will be taken or followed -- we care very much about that -- that it needs to collect itself in a very short period of time. That's why we, the Republican People's Party, have put such a research proposal on your agenda. Once again, if the research proposal and research begin, I say that the country will be greatly benefited, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0062par0036	Thank you, Mr. Cleanel. The first speaker against the Republican People's Party Group proposal is Hasan Sert, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Hard.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0063par0040	Mr. President and valued MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group against the group's proposal for the unregistered economy, which the Republican People's Party has issued under the 98th Article of the Constitution and Article 105 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I hereby salute the General Assembly. As is known, the informal economy is defined as activities hidden from the state and unregistered. The unregistered economy, as well as a major problem with the underdeveloped and developing countries' economies, is also taking on the agenda as an area that has recently been in the pursuit of developed country's economies and is being fought. The multidimensional phenomenon of unregistered economics also allowed various sciences to enter into the field of study. As a result, not only did financiers and economists show interest in the informal economy, but also in sociologists, anthropologists, statisticians, politicians and lawyers. For example, economists and statisticians have examined the size of the informal economy and its impact on economic indicators, as well as the tax loss and fugitive of the informal economy. Business lawyers have looked into the security of unregistered employment and off-the-book employees, and the amount of unregistered money in the financial and money market that affects markets and cannot be inspected. Lawmakers and sociologists have highlighted democracy, community awareness and the state of law in people's relations with the state, along with interpersonal relations. If you look at the reasons for the off-the-book economy, the main reasons that trigger the economy are the fact that tax awareness has not been established, tax burdens, tax pardons, lack of deterrent punishments, lack of supervision, bureaucratic formalities, complex tax regulations, the abundance of small businesses. In 2008 and 2010, and 2011-2013, the plans for anti-regional action against the informal economy were successfully implemented. To move forward with previous action plans and conduct the fight against informality in a more comprehensive framework, the Tenth Development Plan is continuing to fight a new action plan covering 2015-2017. 79 institutions and organizations have contributed to the preparation of this action plan, including 36. The new action plan now under way consists of five components and 62 actions. In the implementation of the plan, 15 responsible organisations and 51 non-registered organisations continue to fight intensively. As part of this action plan, actions and activities aimed at determining the size of the informal economy and promoting voluntary compliance and the analysis of its impacts on the economy, strengthening the level of compliance, overhauling the control capacity and reviewing the relevant legislation, raising awareness in all parts of society, improving inter-agency data sharing and improving the problems that arise in implementation. In the last six months, these studies have been increased even more intensively. According to the Collective Gratitude Survey in November 2015, the level of satisfaction for the taxpayers and accounting professionals has increased by 80 per cent for the services presented in the electronic environment. Now, I would like to give you some information about some of the applications that have been implemented in this context: 99.8 percent of the declarations given by our taxpayers are received electronically and are automatically recorded in our databases through web-based software. A total of 82 million declarations were received electronically in 2015. The process of electronically extracting statements and notifications left out of the system continues quickly. Thus, all of our taxpayers can send their declarations from their homes, from their workplaces, and from the IRS. Members of parliament, in the economy, two indicators are looked at to assess developments related to any variable. The first is the course of the variable in time, and the second is the picture compared to the other countries. In Turkey, the size of the informal economy and related estimates show the decline of the informal economy. In 2001, the informal economy, estimated to be about one-third of the GDP, 32.8 per cent, was reduced to about one-quarterth of the population by 2013, so it landed at 26 per cent. On the other hand, we also see that the informal economy averages above the OECD, the Organization for Economic Development and Co-operation. In 2010, the forecast was 29 per cent in Turkey, while the OECD average was 18.3 per cent, and the AK PARTY governments see it being pulled down. Congressmans, a number of allegations in the informal economy, mentioned in the CHP parliamentary research motion, are known and identified by everyone. It is known to everyone that terrorist organisations have taken advantage of off the books, that arms and drug traffickers have taken advantage of off the books, that the unofficial economy has triggered unregistered employment, that it has triggered indirect taxes, that it has negatively affected revenue distribution, that it has damaged the economy, that it has caused price imbalance, that it has broken social balance, and the EC PARTI is aware that it has taken extraordinary measures to do so. When we look at non-registered economies in European countries, for example, in Bulgaria, 32 per cent in Romania, 29 per cent in Lithuania, 29 per cent in Lithuania -- we see about 14 per cent in Germany, around 13 per cent in Ireland, we see that in the United States, about 6 per cent in Japan. However, with measures and performances, Turkey set its goal in 2018 to reduce the informal economy to 20 per cent, and is continuing its activities on this study. In particular, we've been observing some very serious studies of unregistered activity over the past 14 years. In 2008-2010, the Strategy for Anti-Register Economics Strategy Action Plan was created in Turkey, in a serious attempt to reduce non-registership. To briefly mention the clauses of this strategy: In 2007, the President of the Great Tax Administration of Customs has been activated, fuel pumps are attached to pay-per-view devices, licenses for those who want to operate in the energy sector have been imposed, bandroled monitoring system has been established in alcoholic drinks and cigarettes, the Anti-Responsion Project KADIM has been implemented, as Social Security Agency has been taken into place in 2005; an intensive amount of audit staff has been taken out of the country units; the E-Discipation Project Turkey has been issued, the necessary steps are set up, the tax-based monitoring system has been made, the decision under the control of the money code, and it has been carried out of the Turkish Security Agency. So, as these are not enough, it is also being carried out by our government, with the plans for action of 62 articles and the intense struggle of non-region. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0064par0051	Thank you, Mr. Hard. The second speaker in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Ahmet Yıldırım, Mud MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0065par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party group regarding the Republican People's Party's research motion. I salute the entire General Assembly. Before my speech began, I strongly condemn the arrest of Shebnem Korırcı, Erol Önderoğlu and Ahmet Nesin. The way to be treated as police officers after the arrest, which was incumbent on supporting the Editor-in-Chief on Watch in solidarity with Özgür Gündem daily yesterday. We're going through a process where freedom of the press has already run out of crumbs, where even journalistic activity is viewed as a fear by political power, and all areas of freedom are blocked. I'd like to compare it to yesterday's incident over the example of a couple of cops we've only encountered in the last few months, when the arrest warrant was a violation of a law. In particular, the Turkish military officer of ISIS was taken to court in the presence of police, while academics and journalists were handcuffed. Or just a week ago, police officers who had committed selfies with a serial killer in the entire community who had committed selfies in this country for many years and were charged with solidarity with a newspaper, handcuffing a writer, academic being handcuffed is a striking example of how political power has imposed on freedom of the press and the constraint of democratic areas in the country. Dear lawmakers, I will no doubt say that these practices of political power have clouded the future of the country, but the intellectual conscience, which was arrested yesterday on the mission of solidarity with Özgür Gündem, remained the only hope for the future of this country. Three people were arrested yesterday, 120 intellectuals today, academic Özgür Gündem daily as editor-in-chief. This political power will not digest anything, suppress anything, unleash fear. We perceive all of these practices as manifestations of the fears within ourselves, the expression of expression. Again, I'd like to point out some issues as far as I can at the point where we're in the economy. Actually, there's something that the political power itself has confessed to. In the country, not only is the economy off the record, but many areas are off the books in the country. It's just that, together, even the accusations of political power facing the parallel construction of eleven years in arm and arm are evidence that 11 or 12 years in this country have gone unregistered. The parallel structure in the judiciary, parallel structure in the police, parallel structure in intelligence, parallel structure in security, means that for 11 to 12 years, this political power has also ruled the country without record, as well as its health, health, education, security and refugee policies, because a dark formation through parallel is described by political power. If such a dark formation has taken 12 years into this country's judiciary, education, health, safety, intelligence, the country has been ruled without record for 11 or 12 years along with the partners of this political power. Again, in 2015, the government covered 84 per cent of the income from taxes. Only 29 per cent of these taxes, valued lawmakers, were obtained only 29 per cent of income, profits and capital gains; only 2 per thousand of them were provided from wealth elements, while the remaining 70 per cent were provided from indirect taxes produced by VAT and ULTV. Imagine, the burden of 70 percent of the country is on the workers' backs, but the burden that is on them through the wealth of the rich is only two parts per thousand. According to 2014, I would like to share some of the increases in 2015 through the Ministry's figures. In 2015, on average tax revenues increased 15.6 per cent compared to the previous year, 15.6. So, what was the distribution of these to some pens? He also said: Think about the increase in revenue tax collections made up of pay workers; 16 per cent of profits, interest, rent revenues, capital revenues from them, capital revenues increased by 1 per cent in 2015 compared to the previous year. Imagine, the total income in the country has increased 15.6 per cent, but the capital in 2015 -- much higher than that of the worker -- is limited to only 1.1% compared to the previous year. Another issue is the increase of 21.8 per cent in the VAT, which the public has paid directly. The increase in oil and gas products, which make up half of the OTV revenues, has increased 11.5, the increase in tobacco products is 17.1, and another issue in particular has increased the stamp tax by $12 billion to 16.6, and the tuitions have increased by 17.9 billion. In short, we can make it very clear that the current political power and the palace, in 2015, reduced the tax burden from capital to more than the previous year and piled it on the worker. When we talk about off the record, we'll no doubt be able to talk about tax evasion. The Panamanian documents that the world has been talking about have been published. When we look at these Panamanian documents, it's written in Panaman documents, which are explained by an international financial organization, not us, that they are among large conglomerates such as Coach, Çuk, Sabanci, and that tax evasion is a rule for all capital, regardless of political tradition. Again, Turkey's economy grew by 4 per cent in 2015, according to growth data released in April this year. The economy grew, but when we calculated the national income of the country in dollars, 80 billion dollars went down. We claim that the economy is growing proportionally, but we can see from the data of the ministry itself that it shrinks in dollars. Again, the national income, described as a multinational income per capita in 2015, was reduced from $10,395 to $9,261 per person. Tell them that as many economies as you want are four, fourteen, 24 percent larger, and the ministry explains that the money that goes into the pocket of a normal citizen is shrinking. Again, in the first five months of this year, 246 major companies went bankrupt, decided to postpone bankruptcy. This is the record for the biggest bankruptcy of all time. In all 2015, the total number of companies that got the decision to postpone bankruptcy was 492. In the first four months of this year, we have to say, 3 billion, 379,000 liras of 307,664 bonds of protest. Imagine, in this country, in the first four months of the year, 307,000 bonds were protested. In the first half of this year, citizens' credit cards and consumer loans have risen to 394.3 billion, about 400 quadrillion in old money. According to TİK data, 19 million families from 21 million families in our country are in debt to banks, about 90 percent of all our families are in debt to banks, which has been explained according to official figures. We can express a lot of things, and I'll say this at the very end, it seems that we want to express to the public that the political power, especially in many areas of life, which is trying to squeeze central custody on people, such as lasso, can't get any further distance from centralization, can't bring peace to the public. A new economic approach states that we can only get out of this business with an economic policy that gives up neoliberal policies, protects the poor against the rich, protects nature against the thalan, protects areas that are left behind by a gender-sensitive budgetation, protects them against developed areas, protects the disabled and the territorial center.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0066par0070	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0067par0071	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0066par0072	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0067par0073	Mr. President, Mr. Yıldırım has charged the government with the arrest warrant for the Editor-in-Chief on Watch of Özgür Gündem as he speaks here. It's obviously a taunt because it's the legal environment that does the transactions. In that frame, I demand a word based on 69.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0066par0074	Now, what you're saying is that even though the arrest has been judged or the relevant organs have done the relevant organs of the judiciary, the government has held it responsible.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0067par0075	He held power responsible.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0068par0076	If he's not responsible, let him be condemned, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0066par0077	So I'm guessing that's what the government thought they were responsible for.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0068par0078	If he's not responsible, let him be condemned -- Mr. Bostanian scientist -- because scientists have been arrested, let's see. The judge is not at his command. He said, Mr. Bostanci. He's a scientist, and my teacher is a respected scientist.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0069par0079	But he can't speak for political power, Mr. President, the government is there.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0066par0080	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0070par0084	Mr. President, dear friends, Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım has accused the government of arresting three editors of Özgür Gündem. The government has not issued a new legal arrangement; there is no special arrangement for Özgür Gündem; there is no investigation, an investigation, an arrest; that is the main thing. Özgür Gündem has started since 3 May and has started implementing the editor-in-chief on duty since 3 May. So far, 49 people have taken over this mission, 39 people have been investigated, followed, 12 of them have been investigated, 6 have been indicted, 6 have been indicted, and there are now 3 arrests. So when you look at the total work, there are some who have never been investigated, there are some on-call editors who don't go to law. Some of them have not been investigated, and others have been sued. All of this is the heavy pressures of power toward ▪ Free Agenda. It is wrong, unjust, and false, and inconsistencies, when you look at the existing data, the material data, it is inconsistencies. This is an investigation conducted by courts, prosecutors, if there is a legal responsibility for publishing within the framework of the law. Won't that be done? Of course it will. Whoever writes in this country is responsible for what they write. Not everything, not every word is free of ideas. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0071par0088	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0072par0089	They didn't write it.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0073par0090	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0071par0091	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0073par0092	Mr. President, Mr. Bostanci has openly taunted me by stating that at the end of his words, I'm slandering and slandering them. I'd like a quote from the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0071par0093	He did not call it slander, but he made an assessment of it inconsistencies and inconsistencies. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0073par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, first of all, I didn't say AKP or Justice and Development Party anywhere near my word. The fact that you had made a promise to Mr. Bostanci because of my speech, frankly, that you had made a promise to him, made me sad by not picking on him. For this reason, yes, certain aspects of my speech were open to taunting, but I called it political power, from beginning to end, government and power. He's not a member of the government. I mean, it's inconsistencies from this angle, let me be clear. Secondly, Mr. Bostanci came to confirm what I said. He admitted how freedom of the press in the country was put under the influence of power. He said there was an investigation into 39 of 49 people. So the fact that there was an investigation without arrest, his trial, is not a clear indication that you're hanging a threat like Damocles' sword on freedom of the press? Another thing: You say: "Did we interfere with this judgment?" You have interfered with the judiciary more than 10 times during your rule of power. Or you interfered immediately when you were asked to operate at work on December 2013. So, when threats to you are eliminated, does the judiciary become independent and neutral? Well, there's been no step back from the same parallel judiciary to other areas, to the slanderous operations of TK operations. Is it only when the threats against you are eliminated that the judiciary becomes independent, Mr. Bostanci? Then all the work and transactions that that parallel judgment has done in your power for 11 years are null, misguided, dependent. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0074par0101	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I feel the need to make this statement: As Mr. Yıldırım said, Mr. Yıldırım made a judgmental criticism of the government and the government. Therefore, bullying is the government here. But we've had a few examples of this once again in the combinations that I've run. When I stated that bullying was in the government, it was again Mr. Bostanci, who gave a reason to say that the government is coming out of the Justice and Development Party Group. Also, when I said "government," everyone thinks of the Justice and Development Party. At those sessions, I promised him that he would be bullied by the unifications. I didn't feel the need to repeat the same dialogue here. But the right thing to do, Mr. Bostanci, is to express for what reason the bullying against this power is intended for your group in order to get it written down. I remind you of that. The second speaker against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Tekirdağ MP Metin Akgün. Here you go, Mr. Akgun.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0075par0109	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. During the 14-year period of EC PARTY governments, Turkey has raised its economy in Turkey, thanks to its security environment and stability. In the first four months of 2016, he managed to enter among the world's five largest growing countries. The unregistered economy, as well as a major problem with the underdeveloped and developing countries' economies, has recently occupied the agenda as an area in which the developed country's economies are being pursued and fought. In Turkey, estimates of the size of the informal economy show that the informal economy is waning. The fight against the informal economy in our country is carried out in co-operation and responsibility of public institutions and institutions in co-ordination of the Ministry of Finance's Will of Finance. In this case, Action Plans for the Anti-Regional Strategy have been successfully implemented in 2008-2010 and 2011-2013. In a more comprehensive framework of five components and 62 actions, we continue our way with the 2015-17 Non-Regional Disposal Program Action Plan, which includes moving forward with previous action plans to move forward and combat non-region. Fighting off the books is as important as fighting terrorism. As the disclosure decreases, the indirect, direct tax distribution will improve, and the public's confidence in tax justice will increase. As the disclosure decreases, tax-free areas will be reduced, which will serve as a citizen-state integration. As tax loss decreases, public financing will become a healthier structure. In this way, public services will be served more effectively, increasing the quality of public services will increase employment opportunities and improve the quality of our people's life. After all, the winner will be our citizen. Fighting off-the-book economics has been one of the most important issues during the AK PARTY administrations. By showing the necessary will to reduce the informal economy, our government programmes have been effectively put into effect the decisions we have made on the strategic goals and priorities of the Finance Ministry. There have been significant distances in fighting off the books. We have successfully implemented the Anti-Regional Action Plans 2008-2010, 2011-2013, under the responsibility of our IRS presidency. We've built the 2011-2013 Action Plan, based on 47 actions in five purposes, under the co-ordinatorship of 15 of our public institutions and organizations. We effectively followed the development of this plan with a three-way surveillance mechanism by announcing the action plan publicly in the prime minister's generality. We've completed 42 actions in the action plan, and we've moved five to the new plan of action. From the end of 2002, when we came to power, we have struggled with and continue to deal with the off-the-book economy with the legal regulations we need and the technical infrastructure work that we have done. As a result, we have reduced the informal economy's GDP share to 27.8% from 32.2 per cent to about five points since 2003. With a new action plan, we aim to reduce the size of the informal economy to 21.5% by the end of 2018. It is vital that all segments of society participate in the struggle to achieve the desired success of fighting off the books. Our government will continue today with the same determination and determination as it did yesterday. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation again as I put an end to my words.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0076par0116	Thank you, Mr. Akgun. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0077par0120	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0076par0121	There's a roll call. I'll make the call. First, I identify the MPs who filed the motion. Mr. Agbaba, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Altaca Kayşoglu, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Köse, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Şeleyer, Mr. Akadil, Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Pine, Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Budak. Yeah, I'm starting the roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's 21/06/2016 meeting on Tuesday (now), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Interior Charter. AK PARTY Group Vice President This section of the Charter No. 387 is to be taken into the first order of the agenda, and the order of other tasks is to be considered according to this; Turkey's Grand National Assembly continued its work on July 1, 2016, without taking a vacation, according to Article 5 of the Grand National Assembly; On Tuesday (July 12, 19 and 26th 2016), the talks of jobs in the part of the law bill and proposals and other jobs from the Commission are not discussed with verbal questions and other audit issues; On Wednesday (July 13, 20 and 27th 2016), the unspoken questions were not discussed; Until the completion of the talks on Tuesday (June 21st 2016) of Bill 387 in the merger; Until the meeting of Wednesday (June 22, 2016) was completed by the 328th Bill of Law; Until the meeting of Thursday (June 23, 2016) was completed by the 339th Bill of Law; The meeting of the General Assembly on Friday (June 24, 2016) on Friday (June 24, 2016) outside of the week's working days, in the event that the talks of the work to the 339 rows of the law bill were not completed until Thursday (June 23, 2016), until the meeting of the General Assembly met at 2:00 p.m. on Friday (June 24, 2016) to conclude talks on the agenda of the "Law Bills and Other Jobs From Commissions" and on the agenda; Other than week-to-week working days, the meeting between June 27, 2016 and Monday (July 1, 2016) and Friday is held at 2:00 p.m., and the talks are on the agenda of "Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; Until the meeting of Monday (June 27, 2016), until the meeting of the 33rd Bill of Laws, the talks were completed; Until the meeting of Tuesday (June 28, 2016) was completed until the meeting of the Legislature of Number 35; Until the meeting of Wednesday (June 29, 2016) was completed by the Law Bill of Number 187; Until the meeting of Thursday (June 30, 2016) of the 306 rows of legislation until the completion of the talks; Until July 01, 2016, Friday's merger of 75 rows until the meeting of the talks of the Legislature. Until the meeting of Tuesday (July 12th, 2016) was completed by the Legislative Charter 55; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. In the event that the daily schedules are incomplete at 00 p.m., they continue to work until their daily schedules are completed; It has been suggested that Act 387 be considered by Article 91 of the Civil Code and that its sections be in the accompanying table. The first speaker in favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal is Hasan Basri Kurt, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0078par0160	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from our group regarding this week's work schedule and the work that will take place in the coming days, regarding the motion we have made. I salute you all. As of this week, we aim to move the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Law to the front of the agenda and to start meeting as of today and finish the relevant articles of this law within the week. Right now, the war on terrorism has been at the top of our most important issues for almost a year. Let it be in the debates in parliament, when we go into our citizens, when we go into our own countries, when we go to our constituency zones, one of the main problems that we have to deal with, and most importantly, this is the fight against terrorism. Here, it's a bill where we give security forces the opportunity to strengthen their hands, our security forces, to make the quick decision they need, and to develop their own technical capabilities against such a variety of terrorism. I hope that other party groups will support this bill that concerns Turkey's security, which concerns Turkey's international reputation in the plan, and I believe that, I want to believe that. Because when we go to the citizen, we know that everyone is united on this issue, regardless of the party's distinction. Our martyr funerals are coming, we all feel sorry for them, our veterans are coming, we all feel sorry for them, we are suffering with their families. Hopefully, the decline of these, this blood-soaked terrorist organization... is no longer the same as in the past, it's called much different inhumane methods, so, this is now the extent of terrorism, cocktail organizations, cocktail attacks, a fundamental law that can make the soldier's decision faster. Our next agenda is the study of July, which we brought up with this proposal again. You know, as of July 1st, Congress is going on vacation under normal circumstances. However, our agenda is really intense. Right now, our commissions are working. We've got some serious concentrations on our agenda from now on. Hopefully, in July, we'll get our laws on the promises we gave to our citizens... and maybe that's how we'll get rid of the summer vacation, but we'll have to work, and we'll have to pass those laws. In general, we'll have the Turkish Armed Forces' Staff Act on our agenda and we'll be finished this week. Then a proposal that delayed the House's holiday on July 1st, for four weeks, throughout July, and we expect support from other party groups. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0079par0167	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. The first speaker against the Justice and Development Party proposal is Free Special, Manisa MP. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0080par0171	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today we face a new group proposal from the Justice and Development Party, as every week. For example, they've arranged this date seven times so far, so let's see what kind of time we're in, what time we're in, what time we're in, and make sure they're going to do it again next week, and they're going to do it again, and they're going to do it again next week, and they're going to do it because we're not going to use a will and we're not going to do quality legislation as a group, we're going to have a group of people who don't know where they're coming from, and I've put it in the palace, and I've dug the parallel, and I've balanced some of them, and I've got them working the Covens running, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it again, and they're going to do it again, and they're going to do it again, and they're going to do it're going to do it, and they're going to do it're going to do it again, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it're going to do it're going to do it're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it're going to do it're going to do it, and they're going to do it're going to do it, and they're going to do it're going to do it're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it again, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it're going to do it, and they're going to do it, [[Applause from CHP rows]] At the moment of arrival today, the congressman just spoke on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Not even in terms of terminology. What's he saying? Friends, parliament is not a resort, MPs are not vacations, MPs are summer-term studies. So we're going to waive a ruling party MP's vacation, work another two weeks; there's no such thing, my friends. Let's be very clear: the citizen expects you to keep your promises. The government of Davutoglu, the current government, will not make mistakes in the 24th term when the prime minister arrives." he said. From the fight at 4+4+4, you fell out of power on your own as a result of everything they did and even the travel process until they forced themselves to change the Civil Code here, when you were supposed to be the opposition party that you were supposed to be. During that time, your group presidents were calling us and giving us information on certain issues. We were just saying, what happened? Mr. Davutoglu said that we learned from what happened, that we should consult with the opposition. Why isn't Davutoglu here today? Because a person who opposes consultation, who opposes the dialogue of the mutual groups, who does not approve of strengthening the parliamentary system, who wants to defunction parliament and create a focus of custody elsewhere and manage the country under one man's rule couldn't even tolerate the opening of Davutoglu. Now it says: there is no time. Yes, there is no time. But two months ago, we said we'd do whatever you want. Visa liberalisation was Turkey's most important issue, we worked until morning, you criticised us from time to time. If you support us, why do you speak? There were 72 criteria, 57 of the 72 criteria we completed, all together, and there were five criteria left, before Davutoglu went away, he didn't know he was a death eater, but just before he was dismissed, he said, "What if this is visa liberalisation?" What's the point of growing it? And we saw that Davutoglu's demands were significantly eaten up. Now you're saying, "Sir, there's a law on the anti-terrorism issue in visa liberalisation, and we're tying our hands, and now we're bringing in a whole new law instead. Let's not fool the citizens." If you're sincere, let's do what's left of it, except for terror on visa liberalisation. It's not the terrorist arrangement you can't do, it's the Anti-Corruption Action Plan that you can't do, it's making arrangements in the light of GRECO recommendations. You're afraid of that. (HPP) What is disturbing about the palace is that Turkey has given up its reservations about the extradition agreement, which is being subject to the European Union Police Service. When someone flees abroad the day after tomorrow, when power changes here, you're afraid they'll be taken by the neck and handed over to Turkey. The Personal Protection Act. You've made a mess of it. We've been warned here. It's not accepted, it's here, it's here. And finally, you're afraid of legal aid with EU countries. If you're not afraid, let's do this, transparency politics, make arrangements for the financing of politics. You say you can't find the mayor of the county, but let's make these arrangements and leave the terror alone. After that, come trick the citizen here. But you have put Turkey in serious trouble. You went to a iftar dinner. Iftar dinner at the palace. No invitations to any group, just ministers and ruling lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0081par0178	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0080par0179	I wish Recep Tayyip Erdogan had paid for it. Helali be nice, then do your honors. But while Ahmet Necdet Sezer pays the electricity bill for his son's wedding, you give yourself an iftar meal at the palace and pay for that glorious honor from the budget of the presidency.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0082par0180	You're saying we don't go. What should he do?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0080par0181	These days, the AKP has spent Ramazan with sahurla, iftar, worshiping Muslims, iftars, and slanders, which will be discussed a lot.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0083par0183	Don't demagogue. You're doing demagogue.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0080par0184	You framed the Republican People's Party Group for the past week. We made your Minister of Justice red-handed, we explained it yesterday, I ran into him today and I said, "I'm sorry or I'm quitting?" Mr. Free, don't be so hard on us. At this point, the Republican People's Party Group will apologize. That Justice Department position won't be occupied for nothing. A Minister of Justice with his mouth will answer for the fabrication of false documents. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, also, think of a Speaker, who's doing the honors again. And what kind of work is that? 3,000 guests, 1,200 coming in. How you divided the country. Is there such a disgrace?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0084par0189	You invite, you don't invite, you don't invite, it's a crime! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0080par0190	If the mayor of the village were to make a name for himself in the village, if 200 people were to invite him, if 80 people came to him, he would resign from his shame, Mukhtar!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0085par0191	He's the chief!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0086par0192	You're doing demagogue. Don't demagogue. You're slandering me!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0080par0193	Let's just say that the Speaker is going to give up 3,000 people? We'll all give it to you together, not with the House's money. If he's doing it with the council's money, he'll call in 3,000 poor people...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0087par0194	Look at your own history first!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0080par0195	... We'll call 3,000 students from Ankara, call in 3,000 refugees with the state's money. No, not with the government's money; if you're gonna do it, you're gonna do it with the money you pay from your own pocket, it's that simple. You've disgraced Turkey...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0087par0197	You've made these people needy for a cent. You've forgotten those days already!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0088par0198	You must have eaten too! You ate for free!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0089par0199	Congressmans, please, sir, please listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0090par0200	Şebnem Korr, Erol Önderoğlu, Ahmet Nesin, has been arrested. You're not ashamed. We're ashamed on behalf of Turkey, we're ashamed. The person you refer to as Şebnem Korir is Turkey's most important scholar in forensic medicine. There's an international standard, the Istanbul Protocol, which determines torture and abuse; the person who wrote that protocol, who wrote that protocol. We shut down the pose, the one who wrote the protocol. You know what else? Shebnem Korr was the one who found the trail of the massacre, the massacre, in Bosnia, 1995. Now, if you put Bosnian women there on the 11th of July, we put our hands around it, we wave at it; and this is what we do, and if you put Shebnem Hanım in here, that's what Bosnian women do; they don't know me, they know Ms. Shebnem. But you put Shebnem in. You put in the President of the Non-Restricted Journalists Foundation. On the day of the journalistic writer, during February 28th, you put the men who spoke out of their misery only and not only from me, who criticized me. You have an understanding that you have a way of throwing out what's stronger in the party, putting in what's stronger outside the party, and putting everyone who's critical in prison in the country. But this isn't the end. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yesterday, our Bolu MP Tanju Özcan, because you removed the Tenth Year March... what do you have against the Director of National Education when you first heard it? You didn't ask, we're asking you. There is a ban on October 29th, April 23rd, but the wedding is free, the halay is free, and weddings with Izzet Yıldızhan are free to draw the rope. On May 19th, when our MP opposes the ban of the Tenth Year March, you're dealing with gas bombs, tear gas, tear gas, orange gas. Our congressman could have been blind yesterday. You sprayed our deputy president, Levent Sky, and he was in the hospital for two days. You're taking the country towards fascism... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We'll fight this together, the academic, the politician, the intellectual. Against fascism, we call it shoulder to shoulder with the AKP.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0091par0207	Go!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0092par0208	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0090par0209	We'll work till morning. If you're going on vacation, good luck!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0091par0210	The square is here! The square is here!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0093par0211	Let's go!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0094par0212	On the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group, Bulent Turan is a member of Çanakkale. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0215	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Actually, I wasn't going to take part in the procedure economy. But I just felt the need to take a pledge because I've seen a huge injustice done to our group after the delusions of the precious member of the group. He said he couldn't plan the group's party, he changes it every week, he doesn't know what he's going to do tomorrow. I'll tell you, our AK PARTY group, let alone now, September, October, even planned, which day, when we'll do it. It's just that, optionally, sometimes because they have the wrong attitude in the wrong places -- when we don't want to, there's an argument, there's a call, there's a fight, there's a fight -- that's why we always use this option because it's extended. I repeat: Today, because our Armed Forces want us to bring up some of the problems they've detected in the fight against terrorism, our group has argued, spoken, and we're doing what some institutions have at times, with a demand for better results -- given rights. This evening, we are clearly discussing the personnel code of the TSK. I know what we're gonna do tomorrow. If the law ends tonight, it's the crown, and if it doesn't, we'll be here again tomorrow, and we'll be back the day after tomorrow. So we're not acting like this because we don't know what day the House is going to do business, but because we don't know what you're going to do. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, I'll get right back to the point. After the end of the TSK Staff Act, as you all know, the election process for the Court will be on the agenda. We'll start working on Monday next week, and we'll talk about the Court and the Supreme Court bill here until the holidays. Is there anything that's unclear? Is anything unclear? We work hard, we work well, we work on time, we finish early, or we end late, but we're here, we've been here for 14 years. If we weren't doing business like you said, if we weren't planning it, if we weren't, how are we going to stay here for 14 years? I know how to scream, and I'll scream well, but let the climate of Ramadan come upon us; let the literary, manners, manners, manners of Ramadan come here. If we don't live that Ramadan here, in our soul, in our heart, in our institution, in this great Assembly, can we live outside, friends?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0096par0222	But not like this, not like this.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0223	You're still yelling. There's nothing else! What did you do, other than ask for a roll call for the past 14 years? Let me ask you the question. Dear friends, we decide which iftar to go to, we decide which iftar to join. Our president, who founded his party with his co-workers, set up his movement, made an honor with his friends who went to Pınarhisar, where he had formed a party.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0097par0225	Who gave you the money?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0226	If you're jealous, that's fine, but no, I don't think you can interfere with who's doing the honors with who, that's one.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0098par0227	We're asking who he got his money from.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0228	Second of all, I don't think you'd appreciate such an unfair remark on our Speaker's honor, dear friends. We know CHP from the most radical parties of 90 years. We know the CHP from Mustafa Kemal. We know the party that opened the CHP. We'll consider his respect for the Speaker, we'll consider his respect, we'll assume that the Speaker's invitation is being dictated, but I'm telling you that we don't think it's right to bring some wrongs here with small, cheap polemics and try to come up with a solution. Besides, there were former CHP people in that event. The old CHP is different now, the new CHP is different. There are still people among the former CHPs who love and respect this country, nationalists, nationalists, nationalists, but in the last few years, whether you're angry or not, it's become strange that the Minister of Justice is the one who swears here and yells at the President of Parliament at the highest level and insults the Prime Minister every day.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0099par0229	We learned that from the President.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0230	Guys, this language and attitude is no use to you. I know there are those of you who are uncomfortable with it, I know there are those who haven't been here, I know there are those who haven't spoken. This isn't the CHP we know of, but please look in a mirror, and see what happens again. For example, last week's issue, his struggle with terrorism, he went to him, it went to him, it took him a long time to fight. I don't think it's right, and I don't think it's CHP. I hope he didn't do it. But look in a mirror, if a family of martyrs turns their backs on you, if this can be a polemic issue, if it can be a case of CHP, for God's sake, look at your language, my friends. Why do you think it doesn't suit you when I tell you to party and stuff like that? So, I don't know what part of our Minister of Justice's response you can fix, but I know it's true. But I'll tell you again, if the family of martyrs is turning their backs on you, turn around and say, "Why is that?" Look, again, I'm not gonna go in so it's not polemic, I've got all the documents. Today, the prosecution launched an operation against a newspaper for a terrorist act. It's not ours, it's not the administration's, it's not the administration's, it's the work of the judiciary.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0100par0233	On your orders.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0234	But you act differently when a decision is made to those you do not want, and when you are with those you love, you act differently. No, judicial activity is a judicial activity. If you don't like it, you'll object, we'll fight, we'll argue, we'll argue. But how many friends have made promises since this morning? Friends, the issue you refer to as freedom of the press is that there are people in France and in England who are convicted of similar cases. That's a step towards terrorism, a process. A newspaper with Abdullah Ocalan as a writer, a newspaper like that, I'm afraid, if I read the headlines. That's where you come in as a defense.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0100par0235	What! You did not have any knowledge, nor were you aware?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0236	And then you say, "Sir, how do you establish a relationship between CHP and terror?" We don't, you guys build it.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0100par0238	You're building it, you're building it.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0239	You may not know it, you may not want to do it, but watch your language, watch your language. It's all about civilization. It's everything. There's no argument, you start screaming directly, no tension, you start screaming directly. What we're talking about right now -- if you hadn't said those things, I wouldn't have taken any promises -- our work schedule, that's the point. You can criticize this, the PTSD Staff Law has no priority, so you say, "Bring this first." You say, "The crown, we listen." But where did you connect it to iftara, sahura, the President, the Speaker? Where did you tie them, Mr. Freeman?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0101par0241	They don't have anything to talk about.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0242	That tone doesn't do you any good, it makes you smaller.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0102par0243	It'll get smaller.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0244	Look, for 14 years, I've forgotten the number, I think we've made 15 choices. In those elections, people didn't vote the same thing; times change, technology evolves, conditions change, but you couldn't increase a single gram of your vote. Another 14 years and you can't raise it again. Because it's not reasonable to do the same things and expect different results. Do different things. Yelling at everything, saying no to everything. It's not so true. Look, I'm asking from here. Turkey has a fight with terrorism, a struggle, and it's going very well. Today the Turkish Armed Forces say that to do business faster, I need this law to increase our operational resources.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0103par0246	Who changed the law? Didn't you change that law?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0247	I'm asking: are you a fan of this or not? The palace, the palace, the palace, the palace... you have no idea you're going to be hit like a palace. This isn't helping you guys, so get back to the public agenda.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0103par0248	Didn't you change that law? One day you call it black. One day you call it white. One day you say "terrorist" and one day you say "pattern."
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0249	We -- in case you're wondering -- and after the festival, hopefully, we'll bring our commitments and expectations of our people and many laws that will pave the way for our investors.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0103par0250	Didn't you change that law? We're fighting military custody. Didn't you say? What face are you talking to now?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0251	I hope, with a cold mind, with a reasonable attitude, you'll support any work in the interests of our citizens. Don't we have any good or do we always do bad? Say yes for once. But, you know...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0103par0252	We destroyed military custody. You said, "What happened?"
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0253	I don't hear it, I don't hear it; say it again.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0103par0254	What happened? What happened?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0255	What happened, what happened?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0104par0256	Congressmans, please, sir, please listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0103par0257	Didn't you say we were fighting military custody? Did we change the law, you changed it?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0258	Look, Mr. Agha, people agree to talk, please don't scream.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0103par0259	You changed it, you changed it...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0260	Don't shout, it's no use. Besides, they can't hear you on the screen.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0103par0261	I think it's clear by talking, too. I'm talking, and I wish the one in front of me could talk. I think so, I think so, too.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0262	Mr. President, I'm donating two minutes to Veli Ağbaba.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0103par0263	You get a little embarrassed, you get a little embarrassed.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0095par0264	I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0105par0266	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0106par0268	Mr. President, Mr. Turan, in the first sentence of his speech, I'd like to speak from the delusions of the deputy chairman of the CHP group...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0105par0269	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0106par0273	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, where did we come from? There's nothing to say if you go to slander, there's nothing to say if the invitation were to the entire House, there's nothing to say if those who responded to this invitation went away, or if only you were to pay for it, the President would pay it out of his pocket. There's nothing wrong with you guys if you're honoring it.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0107par0274	The Speaker invited everyone. Why didn't you come?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0106par0275	The president comes out, comes before you; you don't live, he's neutral; he tells you that your first job is...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0107par0276	The Speaker invited everyone. Why didn't you come?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0106par0277	Like, what do you expect? After Ramadan do this, do this. Your first job is to change the Civil Code. You applaud standing up in the hall, the balcony, almost on the tables. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0108par0278	Let's hear it for you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0106par0279	Guys, you clapped again...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0109par0280	We'll applaud you, speak nicely, give you a round of applause. If you speak well, we'll applaud.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0106par0281	Now, look, fellas, this much ignorance is only possible by collecting.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0109par0282	If you say something for the good of the nation, for the good of the nation, we'll applaud.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0106par0283	Civil Code changes happen all over the world.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0109par0284	If you say something to the good of the country, we'll give you a round of applause.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0106par0285	In all the world's parliaments, recent changes in the Civil Code are at the request of the opposition, and those changes are the pride and pride of the ruling parties. It is the pride and honor of the ruling party that improves the opposition's field of opposition, improves the control area, improves the rights to say about the opposition.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0109par0286	Opposition is constructive, it's said that there are flaws.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0106par0287	Taking a single man's ruling party in front of him and feeding them from the state budget and then giving them parliamentary assignments is incompatible with diplomacy and democracy and conscience and giving them the right to your duty as citizens.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0110par0288	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0111par0289	We're just laughing at you, you know?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0112par0290	You're pathetic, poor thing!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0110par0291	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0113par0292	If that's what you're doing, then you've given your will to the palace.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0112par0294	Say something for the good of the country! Don't you die! Say something for the good of this country! You're talking pathetic!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0114par0295	Congressmans, please, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0113par0296	You can surrender to the palace, and we will not hand over Turkey to you or to the palace. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0114par0299	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0115par0300	Say something for the good of the country! You're pathetic!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0116par0301	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0114par0302	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0116par0303	Mr. Group Vice President named me...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0117par0305	Oh, dear! Say something for your country!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0114par0306	Congressman, I can't hear you, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0116par0307	The vice president of the group also called my name and made a mockery of me. I want word on Article 69.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0114par0308	What sentence did he pick on, Mr. Agha?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0116par0310	Sir...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0114par0311	Congressmans, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to hear Mr. Agbaba. Your speech prevents me from listening. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0116par0313	Civilized people agree to talk. He said to me, sir, so I want a word.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0114par0314	There's no bullying here, Mr. Agha. So here's the thing, you guys started talking back to the vet from where you were sitting, and that's when he answered you. It's a sweet dialogue, that's how I got it.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0118par0316	Mr. President, I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0114par0317	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0118par0318	In this regard, though, your attention may be exemplary, but when Mr. Turan is standing on the stand and Mr. Veli is shouting, when he raises his voice from there, people agree to talk, people say, and laugh in obscene terms, there is an accusation against him that does not suit him.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0119par0319	I said don't shout.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0114par0320	So you're saying that he used the word "people" in a dirty sense?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0118par0321	In an obscene way, people say...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0114par0322	Mr. Agha, is that how you see it, sir?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0120par0323	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0114par0324	Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0121par0326	Mr. President, don't, it's not fair to him, it's not fair to Veli Bey.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0114par0327	Mr. Turan, if you said no, I didn't use it that way. I wouldn't have promised Mr. Agha. Please, Mr. Agha, I beg you, don't make a fuss, sir. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0122par0331	I'd like to present to you here that I can't describe this to Mr. Bulent Turan.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0123par0332	I told him not to shout, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0122par0333	Now, dear friends, look, I've just spoken to Mr. Turan. Now that you're bringing in the law on soldiers, you said, "What face are you bringing in?" I said. Why do you bring it with you? Because you're the one who changed the law. And that's when you lectured me.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0123par0335	What did we change?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0124par0336	What change?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0125par0337	You don't know what's coming.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0126par0338	Wait a minute. We, the AKP Group, are fighting military custody. You said. I'm putting you in the position you're in here.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0127par0340	He got it wrong, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0126par0341	This isn't the first example, this isn't the first example. At the September 2010 referendum with your associates, your partners...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0128par0342	The votes of the CHP have fallen in Malatya.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0127par0343	What substance was it? Mr. Agha, what substance was that?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0129par0344	Congressmans, please, please, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0128par0345	What does it change with?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0130par0346	You had a referendum with the people you held hands with in September 2010, and you said, "Democracy is coming."
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0131par0347	Read it, read it!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0130par0348	Now you're talking about parallel, you're talking about revolution. What happened? You changed it.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0132par0349	Tell me what happened on November 1st, never mind. What happened on November 1st?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0130par0350	Look, if there's a hypocritical policy here, it's a group. In September 2010, you cooperated with those who said, "Let us join hands with the congregation, and give arm to arm, and raise up our dead." You turned the judicial system into a disgrace, and you changed the whole Supreme Court, and the State.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0132par0351	What's he talking about?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0130par0352	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0132par0353	The votes are falling in Malatya. Look at him. Go work and let the votes rise in Malatya.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0130par0354	You returned on December 17th and 25th, and changed again on December 17th and 25th.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0132par0355	The vote fell from 21 percent to 16 percent. The votes fell in Malatya.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0130par0356	How many times has this Supreme Court changed? What did you do with the bag of laws? Let me tell you something else...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0132par0358	In Malatiah, the vote fell from 21 per cent to 16 per cent, and fell to 10.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0130par0359	Don't shout!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0132par0360	Let's go! Vote down, vote up, vote up.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0130par0361	The so-called peace process, the peace process, you were embracing the peace process, and now look at the situation you've fallen into.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0132par0362	Raise the vote in Malatya.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0133par0363	Mr. Bak, please, sir, please...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0130par0364	That's what history writes. In September 2010, when you did...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0134par0365	History is writing you down!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0130par0366	We will continue to rub the Supreme Court's Law in your face. Aren't you the one who called the sledgehammer, Ergenekon, and now you call them victims? Aren't you the one who called Ilker Basbug a terrorist?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0135par0368	I don't understand!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0130par0369	Aren't you the one who called Mr. Fethullah?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0135par0370	I don't understand... I don't understand... Work at Malatya.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0130par0371	Now look at the point where you're standing, and consider this your own situation.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0136par0373	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0137par0375	Mr. President, I don't want to answer that tone, but once again, what law did this group change today and take back? There's no such thing. We're looking at a new process. Everyone knows we're removing military custody, and we're proud of it.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0138par0376	We'll talk about it, we'll talk about it.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0137par0377	May I say the same thing, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0139par0378	Mr. Agha, please, sir, let's hear from Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0137par0379	If I say the same sentence, they'll be angry. Mr. President, the whole world knows about the AK PARTY's fight with military custody or similar custody, that's not the point.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0140par0381	That used to be, used to be, not now.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0137par0382	We're on the side of democracy, we're in the same place, but there's nothing more natural than considering the demands of our struggle against terrorism today. We'd like to have this party even here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0141par0385	Thank you, Mr. Turan, it's been filed. Second speaker against the Justice and Development Party Group proposal, and the last speaker on the motion is Erhan Usta, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0142par0392	Thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Last week, when I was discussing the Maarif Foundation Law Bill, I started by saying that Justice and Development Party governments were inadequate in solving the fundamental issues of the country, and to base it on foreign policy and terrorism, I later laid out my arguments for further education. Now, again, we have a fundamental issue here, an off-the-book economics issue. In fact, the informal economy has long been a serious problem of Turkey, a structural problem of Turkey. Of course, again, I'd like to take a look at what a 14-year-old government is doing here, to discuss the solution to this structural problem. Now, of course, when we say "out of the record," it's a little broad, so we need to see where we can keep the scope. One: there's anonymity within the scope of normal legal activities, so there's an unregistered tax loss. Other than that, it's in the form of black money, or rather, it's about criminal activities, drug trafficking, arms smuggling. And beyond that, in fact, there's also a black coin-shaped discrepancy. In fact, of course, we know that our economy has given a serious account deficit, and I often stress it in my talks, and since our economy is in serious difficulty in financing this, it's now in a hurry to get some money into the country without looking at the land, for the better, for the better, for the better, for the better, for the better. This will certainly give Turkey a headache in the coming period. It's also about the financing of terrorism -- I don't want to waste my time on it now -- it's about concreteification in the country. So where is this black money being laundered? Some of these are being laundered today, here, in these concrete piles. For example, clearly during the AKP period, see, clearly the influx of money is $30 billion, that's clear. So, if you look at the size of these, if you look at the total entry, there are hundreds of equivalents. For example, last year 1/3 of the current deficit was funded by an anonymous cash intake. These are extremely dangerous issues for Turkey, but I don't want to waste too much time here. Now, today, I'd like to focus more on the fact that there's no record of legal activities. For once, there were some numbers here today. For one thing, Turkey lacks something like this: the bureaucracy of this country, or politics, or whatever you might call it, we have no work to measure the size of our off-the-book economy. These studies have existed in the past, there have been studies of different methods, but they haven't been done in a long time. We haven't heard this from Mr. Naci, including the previous Finance Minister of this country, but he used Schneider's work to use non-registership in Turkey. It's a really sad thing, really, to measure the size of an unregistered country, just like it's done all over the world, we need to have our own kind of work to do. This Schneider's work is a very generic work. By the end of the year, before the national income data is released, this is what's off the record. It's a study called this. Oh, it also means something, and I'm going to use it, unfortunately, I'm going to have to use it, but I want to draw the attention of the AKP, especially its government, and I want the public to be careful about it. It is very sad, very embarrassing, that a 14-year government -- not a year, not two years -- did not reveal an off-the-book study. And that never occurred to you? Look, in 2007, the annual program... what's the annual program? It's a report the government issued as an extension of the Council of Ministers' decision, a report that comes out every year. In the 2007 report, a comprehensive informal analysis will be done. I am not extending the sentence. We're going to do that in 2007. Has the study been done? It hasn't been done. In 2008, again, page 96: The tax loss and the size of the fugitive will be regularly investigated in various ways. Is the work done? It hasn't been done. It was said in 2009, it wasn't done; it was said in 2011, it wasn't done. Now, we're coming back, and there's a study that a few of our friends just said -- it's the same speech text, I guess, from whom they got it, because they read the same text -- the Off tape Action Plan, one of these 25 transformation programs. Again, in measuring the size of the non-registered economy here, there will be work done, I don't know what to do. The calendar is February 2015-December 2017. Now, a 14-year government extends it to 2017. In 2017, if this government continues, how old will it be? It'll be a government of 15 to 16 years, still working off the books. This shame is enough for this country. Now, so, how are the numbers going in Schneider's study? In 2013, the informal economy in Turkey fell to 26.5 per cent, according to Schneider's work. When it comes to 2015, they're still 27.8 percent of friends, according to the same Schneider study. According to this study, it turns out that in Turkey, recent momentum has increased unregisteredness, which has come down with a certain acceleration in the past two years. This is, once, our first detection, you have to do this once. Oh, here, in the action plan we just discussed, Turkey's 2015 target is 25 per cent. 27.8% now. It's about three points above the target. So within a year, you set a target within two years, there's a deviation over three points of the target, and on the contrary, come on, deviation, you go down a little bit, but after 2013, the discrepancy goes up. So, compared to the past, is the discrepancy increasing or diminishing? Let's face it, I mean, you have to put it all here in the middle. Schneider's work begins in 2013, the same coverage. In fact, according to it, there is a decline from 32.2 to 27.8, although it has increased recently. But, friends, this is a decline in life's normal flow, a similar decline in the world. Again, 31 European countries are being examined in this study. When we look at them in comparison -- I want to get your attention here -- in the beginning, we've always been off the record, but in 2003, for example, 31 European countries were 44% above their average, so we're off the books. What do you normally expect? If there's a good performance, you expect it to come down, so if they're 100, we're 144, but unfortunately, when we get to 2015, we're 54 percent more. So this decline, a few points down, is a decline in the normal course of life, but other than that, when we look at it, in fact, especially in comparison, in Turkey, there is a clear increase in unregisteredness. I'd like to stress that in particular. In the same study... there's one of the same studies. This is the work of the Calculatorial Committee. Around here, there aren't many serial studies, there are certain years, so you can't compare each other. In this report, this is the report of Kemal Unakitan, the official report, a report on the Ministry of Finance website -- in 2002 -- that we have always had a comparison disease with 2002, with this method -- the unregistered 29,74, of national income increased by one point in the same series in 2004, 30.7 per cent in the same series. Now, see what that means for 27.8 citizens, I want to tell you that. Whether it's going down today, whether it's going up or down today, whether it's based on Schneider's work right now, that's the amount we're talking about, friends, the loss of $113 billion in tax dollars at 2015 prices, the amount we're talking about is $113 billion at 2015. That's a serious number, and let's see where we stand in the order here. His steps are rapidly climbing during the AKP era. In the last thing, we're in the first 3 · Global Voices in 2013. We can't be in the first three places in anything else, but we manage to get into the first three points in bad indicators. The highest informality in Bulgaria is Romania, the 2nd, Turkey 3rd; 2013. When we get to 2015, we're number 4 in the ranking in 2013, when we get to 2015, we're up to 3 in the ranking. And that's another thing that shows that we're rapidly climbing up the stairs off the books. Now, I'm running out of time. Of course, there's no need to mention the damage to off-the-books. Look, I don't think the people who run Turkey in Turkey believe in the damage of off the books, people. I've been in the study a lot about it, and I've told them that. You know, when people dig up a little bit, there's an off-the-book thing, but here's what he does, he does this, the competitiveness, no, it's not. For one thing, the off-the-book economy is seriously disrupting efficiency. Look, there's a study of the OECD. Unfortunately, I didn't have a chance to make a big deal out of it, but I'll try to explain it to you. The efficiency difference between the formal sectors and the informel sectors is substantially high for Turkey. In this study, OECD says that if 100 jobs are accepted in the Formel sectors, the efficiency of the labor force is 19 per cent in sectors that are semiformal, 38 per cent in sectors that are semi-formal, disrupting the country's competitiveness, corrupting the country's financing, ma'am, victimizing the workers, so, of course, no one can negotiate insurance with the employer, and now there are 9 million, 9 million people working in this country without insurance. It's 14 years of power... so if you really did something about it from now on, I'll leave it at your mercy, if you can say so. There was so much to say. This unregisteredness has severely blocked your access to financing, especially in terms of the SMEs. Hence, this informality requires a comprehensive struggle. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you in this frame. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0143par0416	Thank you, Mr. Master. I'm going to vote for the Justice and Development Group...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0144par0418	Mr. President, I demand a say in my position according to the Civil Code 60.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0143par0419	Do you want to speak according to Article 60?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0144par0420	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0143par0421	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0144par0424	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the AKP did not have a say in the group proposal, I wanted a say in my position. Now, the AKP Group was actually trying to co-operate with all parties on their proposals or assessments of their work, and we learned from the press that the future programme and the agenda today -- which legislation should be presented to parliament -- is to be discussed. So I want to say once again that nothing has been shared with us about this. But there's something going on in the press that I don't know how accurate it is, of course, that the members of the group can explain that the AKP group's MPs are consulting with CHP and the members of the group, they're making an assessment of the process, they're talking about it, they're talking about it, they're talking about it, they're talking about it, they're talking about it, they're talking about it, they're talking about it, they're talking about it, they're talking about it, they're talking about it, they're talking about it, they're talking about it, they're talking about it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish it, Mayor. Like I said, we don't know how true it is, but we're just saying once again that it's unethical to remind you that the HDP Group is the third largest group in Parliament. Secondly, Mr. President, for the record, the speakers who spoke on behalf of the AKP Group all said that the draft law on the Turkish Armed Forces that will come on the agenda today expressed their statement at the Turkish Armed Forces' proposal and especially at the point of bringing it in. This shows that, in fact, there is a clear, custody-controlled AKP power. So while we can't agree to co-operate and discuss which law bill will be brought up, we'd like to say once again that we do not agree to the launch of talks in Parliament under the agendas set by the Turkish Armed Forces, the AKP power or the palace.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0145par0431	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0146par0432	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0145par0433	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0146par0435	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me make this very brief. The deputy chairman of the group used the following statement: "There is no Parliamentary calendar that the Justice and Development Party consults with our group. They already know that because they violated a camp program that the Republican People's Party decided to do months ago, we have no consultations and no compromises. I submit to the knowledge of the High Council.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0145par0437	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0147par0438	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0145par0439	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0147par0441	Thank you, Mr. President. We, as the National Movement Party Group, have specifically expressed to the members of the Justice and Development Party's National Movement Party that the amendment to the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act is crucial to the agenda of this. Yes, Turkey must first consider the law on the fight against terrorism, and there, the will to stand by our heroic Armed Forces, our soldiers, our police, our rangers must be presented in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. These arrangements are clearly needed by Turkey, and our party's opinion on the immediate fulfillment of this need has been shared. And to that end, we've made it clear that we're not going to bring in a group proposal. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0148par0444	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0149par0445	Mr. President, may I make a statement?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0148par0446	You want a word, Mr. Turan?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0149par0447	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0148par0448	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0149par0450	Mr. President, dear friends, we didn't sign off on what the precious group's deputy president meant. Of course the testimony is pre-existing, and then there's the after. I spoke to both CHP's and the MP's of the group yesterday about this week's agenda. However, as CHP's deputy group leader stated, we do not have the means to compromise. They have used the expression before. So we're not going to compromise, we're going to consult, and we're going to decide together, and I'd like to ask you how that's possible. Secondly, there is a special process of Turkey, which we have a fight against terrorism, as expressed by the precious MP of the MHP group. In this struggle, our institutions have demands, and we don't approve of delays. I'm proposing to the radical parties to take part in this matter again. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0150par0453	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0151par0454	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0150par0455	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0151par0456	That's exactly what I wanted to ask you, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0150par0457	I'll turn on your mic. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0151par0458	I'd like to speak from the stand, Mr. President, because there's been some bullying.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0152par0459	Mr. President, what teasing?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0150par0460	What sentence?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0151par0461	I mean, we should have...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0150par0462	Here you go, I give you my word for two minutes under Article 69. We've met with the root parties. The sentence is clearly a taunt, members of lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0153par0464	I said we're waiting for us, Mr. President. No, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0154par0465	So you admit you're not a radical party.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0150par0466	Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0155par0469	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, yes, he made it very clear, he's deciphered himself, deputy leader of the group. The biased approach of power, the biased approach of power...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0156par0471	Are we doing something secret? What did we do?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0157par0472	Go down from the Kandil, and come down from the assembly.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0155par0473	...the power's relationship with other opposition parties has become very clear today. We've said this before, and we're saying again: yes, in today's meeting, when all parties should be treated equally.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0158par0474	Criticize the PKK, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0155par0475	...we've also learned from the press that CHP's group's deputy presidents are being interviewed, the agenda is being shared with the group's deputy presidents, the DP is being discussed with the group's deputy presidents, but the HDP group is not looking for MPs and the agenda is not being shared, we're learning the agenda from the press.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0159par0476	As long as you're in Kandil, you'll learn from the press.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0155par0477	This biased approach is needed by all Turkey's public opinion.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0160par0479	Be a Turkish party and come.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0161par0480	Congressmans, please, sir...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0155par0481	The government's approach to opposition is clear. When you bring everything in and describe it as terror, as we see today, press workers, as we see today, lawyers, as we see today, all lawyers are declared terrorists. I make it very clear that it's unethical. A parliament must approach all parties equal to all opposition parties, the ruling party. It's unethical.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0162par0483	Anyone who betrays this country is a terrorist!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0163par0484	Those who support terrorists are not treated equally!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0155par0485	What do you have to say for yourself? There's been a situation like this before, Mr. Naci knows. When there was a situation that wasn't passed on to us before, when Mr. Naci was here with me, he apologized, but today, in his speech, the group's vice president, let him apologize, his mistake, he also refers to it as the root party. With the main opposition party, with the other parties, let's be very clear that we are a very radical party and we are a party fighting for Turkey's democracy. Not being shared with us means not following ethical principles. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0164par0488	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0165par0489	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0166par0490	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0164par0491	Mr. Vural, do you have a request, sir?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0167par0492	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0164par0493	I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0167par0497	Sir, I repeat: We, the National Movement Party, have stated that while the agenda is being set, we will support the priority of the agenda for meeting these demands of the Turkish Armed Forces on the anti-terrorism axis. What we have stated is that I called Mr. Naci Bostancı, and after that, Mr. Bulent Turan was on duty, and I told them, and we explained the position of our party. Otherwise, the agenda, the hours, they're not being evaluated. You can appreciate that we as a party are very concerned about the fight against terrorism, and we feel that Turkey should also demonstrate unity and integrity in the Parliament in the fight against terrorism.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0168par0498	We applaud you, too.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0169par0499	I wish the CHP felt the same way about terrorism. Unfortunately, the CHP is showing its rank everywhere, in favor of terrorism.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0170par0500	It's you who commit terror, you who terrorize citizens.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0171par0501	The greatest terrorism happened here, here, you know it well, you did it.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0172par0502	For this purpose, we will express our support and support for this law in Parliament, and we will form our position. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0173par0504	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0174par0507	Mr. President, there's a need for an explanation again. We're answering the calls of the vice presidents of the Justice and Development Party Group, courtesy, personal courtesy. They already know they can't offer us a negotiation, a compromise on that phone. There's nothing like that. We also have no intention of negotiating with the terrorist negotiators of the past to support the Turkish Armed Forces, to carry out their part in the fight against terrorism. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0175par0511	Oh, dear!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0176par0512	Now you're a terrorist lover.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0177par0513	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0178par0514	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0177par0515	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0178par0517	We also find it politically ethically correct to meet with other parties in Parliament's work as much as we can, and we want to do that. However, as CHP's precious group deputy, they said, "Don't talk to us." In other times, they said, "Don't talk to us for different reasons." In the process of immunity, our friends and I lost our relationship, they said. Again, how are we going to talk about this? He insists on telling me you're on the side. Yeah, we're on our side. We're against terrorism, we're against terrorism. I'm on my side, Mr. President. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0177par0520	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0179par0521	Mr. President, let's take a vote.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0180par0522	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0177par0523	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0180par0524	I'd like to speak of my position, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0177par0525	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0180par0527	Mr. President, we work here together, there are four parties in Parliament.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0181par0528	You said, "Don't come." You said, "Don't do it." You said, "Don't come if it's untouchable."
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0180par0529	We don't adopt each other's opinions, we express our alternative ideas, but there is an approach that ignores HDP. There are four parties in this parliament, although we are the third largest party, there is an approach that ignores HDP.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0182par0530	Mr. President, you've taken a vote. Mr. President, there is no such procedure, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0183par0531	So you're ineffective, ineffective.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0180par0532	Yeah, what is it? Aren't we going to see each other? We're seeing each other. Other parties are being searched and agendas are being said, but what agenda is being reported to Parliament, and why is the HDP not told?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0184par0533	Be the Turkish party, then. Be the Turkish Party. Don't be a terrorist party, be a Turkey party, then.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0180par0534	So this is already a product of exclusion of HDP (HDP) and ignoring HDP (HDP). We're saying that we don't accept it, that we condemn it. Or at the point where they set the agenda, it's already set at the last minute; it's determined by the palace. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We know that very clearly. The agenda set by that palace is also coming to Parliament.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0185par0537	Let's vote, Mr. President, the issue is clear.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0180par0538	But we don't agree to see or not share. That's why we don't find it right to be ignored here. We'd like these to go on the record.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0186par0539	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/65) I demand that my original Law Proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. Dr. Intuitive Godkulu On the proposal, Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Godkulu, I assume you're not using the title of doctor, you're just starting to use it.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0187par0557	Sir, it's necessary for this environment, so it's not enough just to be a lawyer.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0186par0558	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0188par0559	If you're not a doctor, if you're a professor, you're the same, brother, nothing's changed.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0189par0560	What did the doctor mean?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0190par0561	What if you're a professor? What if you're a professor?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0191par0562	Congressmans, please, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0189par0563	We need an explanation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0192par0564	What can you say to that, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0191par0565	Sir?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0192par0566	What can be answered for what he said?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0191par0567	Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0193par0568	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0192par0569	Congressman, all of these people are doctors, professors, assistant professors, that doesn't mean anything.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0193par0570	Sir, could you start again, please?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0194par0571	I'm rebooting your time, Mr. Godkulu. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0193par0573	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on a new law proposal regarding Law 2911. I salute you all and the General Assembly. Dear friends, before this offer, I did some research today, and I came to you with this research. There's a 256th article in the TCK, a violation of force enforcement, 256, and a resisting arrest charge, 265. I looked at all the statistics, 12 years, 13 years of statistics. Tens of thousands of counts of resisting arrest in your lifetime. So people went out on the street for a meeting, for a demonstration, when they saw police or soldiers, they resisted. Tens of thousands of cases, tens of thousands of convictions. But before 2002, there's the opposite, the opposite.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0195par0575	What do you mean, the other way
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0193par0576	On the contrary, dear friends. Meeting and marching have become almost impossible in your time of power, almost. The European Court of Human Rights has many decisions, and even the Constitutional Court has made decisions on individual application. But right now, a meeting and a demonstration are not possible against power. According to the European Court of Human Rights, there is no right to hold a meeting and demonstration march during the time it shows, just where you point out, within the limits shown by the government, where there is no right to do so. It is decided by those who hold the meeting, and where they will be, they will decide, and even the public order may fail. It's the government's job, it's the government's job to ensure the safety of those who take meetings and demonstration walks. But right now, the mechanisms that will provide security have become a threat to security itself. The last is the march of members of the LGBTI in Istanbul the day before yesterday. In 2014, in Ramadan, they walked on Istiklal Street during your reign, and you took them to your election declaration and pamphlets before the June 7th elections, as a symbol of tolerance, and you said, "We created such a power that, look, both these individuals have Ramadan and they have their rights and they walk on Istlallal Street, and we provide security for them." But in the same period, just after June 7th, you banned this march. The other day, again, there was threats, pressure; you submitted to these threats, and the governor of Istanbul blocked the demonstration, and the march became impossible. I'm not just saying this example, there's May 1st, there's meetings that KESK is having. KESK was to hold a meeting for secular education in nine provinces, and three provinces were forbidden, and they could not. Can't sensitivity just be your sensitivities or the sensitivity of other citizens? For example, yesterday, our congressman... dear friends, look, if I showed you this footage, you'd be really embarrassed, really.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0196par0579	We're not doing anything to be ashamed of. Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0197par0580	If there's anything to be ashamed of, it's going to the terrorist's funeral.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0193par0581	It's for the congressman, the Bolu MP. Let me show you, there are some dear friends here, come in Google, look, you'll find them. Look, my friends, what they're saying is that Tanju Özcana, let me read to the member of this Parliament: The person standing in front of the police, the MP, tells him he's got a lot of gas. The other cop says, "How can I squeeze him, the MPs have immunity?" The other police are responding again. He says, "You may be bored, your immunity has been lifted." He says, "You have Tanju Özcan's -- you have a video -- there's gas sprayed in your eye." Well, isn't the congressman in this community going to be in a society that, for some reason, can give his opinion? So, I'm asking Mr. Secretary, what did you do about these two cops?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0198par0583	I don't know what he said.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0193par0584	Let me show you here, Mr. Secretary, the police officer himself says: "Squeez it in your eye." Here's the video, which was made to Tanju Ozcan yesterday, and in Bolu, squeeze it in your eye. Let me show it to another policeman, sir. What are you doing? If there's an environment that won't protect the congressman's rights, will you, dear friends? What will the average citizen do if he is not in a position to exercise his rights, and the police are being treated directly when they see him? Therefore, this Law on Meeting and Demonstration Walks must be lifted, with a new law based on freedom, human rights, demonstrations and meetings, which can be carried out without violence.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0199par0587	They're walking in France, they're walking in France!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0193par0588	Besides, two days ago, I heard it in Firuzakah. I wouldn't believe it if I didn't hear it with my own ears, Mr. Secretary. I really wouldn't believe it if I didn't hear it with my own ears. In Firuzak, the police officer shouts from the announcer car: "Don't laugh! [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's a police environment where laughter is announced, laughing at an entertainer...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0200par0591	What in God's name was your law proposal?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0193par0592	There's security and there's a pathological situation. This is happening during your reign. So, at least, it's on the record here, and you'll see these bills in the future, what do we do? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0201par0595	Wait, you, wait! You'd better wait!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0193par0596	I don't expect anything from you! What do I expect from you?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0202par0597	Behave, behave!
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0203par0598	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Second on the motion is Mehmet Bekkinoğlu, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0204par0602	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, good lawmakers, democracy is based on freedom of thought and expression, of course, equal citizenship and equal voting rights. But it's even. Freedom of thought and expression, freedom of thought and expression, for democracy to happen, of course, meetings and demonstration walks. If meetings and demonstration walks can't be done properly, we can't talk about democracy in that country. Unfortunately, it can't be done in Turkey. Even though you're a ruling committee complaining about freedoms, unfortunately, that's what -- that's what people have done before -- you interpret this in a unilateral way; your freedom of thought and expression is important; others' freedom of thought and expression is sinking, disturbing. Whatever thoughts and expressions you may disagree with, which are troubling you, you're taking them all into terrorist parentheses. In a recent campaign involving the Minister of Justice, MPs from the Republican People's Party are being taken into account. This is nothing but an effort to silence the opposition, my dear friends. There are similar examples in the history of Turkey's democracy that have happened in the past and have never been useful to anyone. Only yesterday, three of our MPs were attacked, so not only did Tanju Bey in Bolu, but Eren Erdem. They attacked me in Istanbul and insulted me by the police yesterday, and I didn't give any to the press. Where do they get the courage, my dear friends? I mean, the police really insulted a congressman, and he said, "No matter where you go," because he knows he's gonna be okay, he's gonna be protected. Guys, this is really going to turn out to be something that you could all use one day. Therefore, the development of democracy means that we want what we want for ourselves and for others. Look, our Constitution is writing freedoms, for example, that everyone can march in meetings and demonstrations without permission. Here, everyone is free in their thought, expression, expression of faith. In a sentence, they are restricted by putting 10 sentences behind it, and putting 10 sentences behind it. This is a typical September 12th classic. Look at today's Constitution, and that's all it is. You, unfortunately, were first released, we would eliminate the constitution of September 12th, we would change the laws of coup, we would change the laws of oppression. My dear friends, perhaps you have reached the majority that will change the Constitution... which has happened in the past, but there are many laws of September 12th... from the Law of Elections and Political Parties, from the Law of Meetings and Demonstrations, all of which are prepared with the logic of September 12th, all of which are prepared by the logic of silence the opposition, the citizen, the citizen, and the opponent, but you are not making any effort to correct one of them. Let us first discuss this proposal regarding the Law on Meetings and Show Marchs. Of course, you won't be interested in them, but you'll have to raise your hand and deny them. There are dozens of things like this. On the contrary, you'll step back from the improvements you've made in your time, much less healing. My dear friends, the fight against terrorism, in front of democracy, can't prevent the development of democracy. Look, the law you're about to discuss in this Parliament, we're strengthening the army's hand in the fight against terrorism. The law you've passed as an excuse, the powers you've already lifted in this House. How do you know this won't come back, that it won't be used against you? Guys, think about it, take this law back, think about it. Here, you're completely disinheriting the judiciary. You can't fight terrorism outside the law, you can't fight terrorism, you can't do any good to anyone in this war on terror, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0205par0610	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Tanju Özcan has a request to speak at his place. I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0206par0616	Mr. President, thank you very much. As of Monday, I have been promised to inform our Assembly of an insurgency practice I encountered in Bolu. On Monday, with about 300 of our citizens, we met in front of the National Education Directorate to protest that Bolu County National National Education Director's Tenth Year March had been stolen and banned from being said in schools, even though we only had Turkish Flags in our hands, we said we wanted to leave a black wreath, but police forces were there with pepper gas and orange gas in the direction of the governor's governor's instructions that he had taken me directly, even though it was known that I was a member of parliament.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0207par0620	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Ozcan, and finish your words.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0206par0621	Thank you, sir. 20 people were severely damaged -- being taken to hospitals by ambulance -- and two of them were seriously threatened by the police. I want you to know that as a congressman, I want you to know that this gaseous intervention was done by the police on purpose by the target. I also want you to know that this was done by the direct order of the Governor of Bolu, who was appointed during the AKP government. That's what the police department officials are telling us. Here are the ministers representing the government, the AKP Group's very valuable MPs. I believe that the visions of many of you have troubled your conscience. What happened to us today could happen to you tomorrow. So I'd like to say that I expect a clear reprimand from the AKP Group and the government. I'm also waiting for the government to do the proper thing about the Governor of Bolu who did this.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0208par0626	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. Congressmans, I'd like to state to a congressman that I don't approve of direct pepper spray on a member of the legislature. I condemn that attitude, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will begin negotiations with the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act and the National Defence Commission Report, which has been ranked in the 1st place. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 387 rows. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after all negotiations on the bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Now I'm going to meet your demands on the entire bill. The first request for political party groups belongs to the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Kamil Aydın, Erzurum MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0209par0644	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Movement Party to discuss the entire bill of the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act 387 and the amendment to some Laws. I salute the High Council. Sir, I'd like to start with a memo that I believe will interest you. You know, the world's public met a character named Edward Snowden after Julian Assange. It is known that one leaked WikiLeaks documents while the other leaked American National Security Agency documents. Now, I'd like to read a passage from a statement by Global Research on the basis of an article published in Gulf Daily News, which says that former employees of the National Security Agency in the United States, Edward Snowden, claims that British, American and Israeli intelligence organisations are working together in the formation of the Islamic State of Iraq-Suriye, ISIS. According to documents leaked by Snowden, the only way to protect the Jewish state in the region is to create an enemy close to its borders. Again, according to these documents, an intensive military education was given to the leader and imam of ISIS, Abu Bakir El Bağdadi, by this trilogy for a year, and in particular an education in speech and customs. Congressmans, why did I start with such a memo? International competition is no longer open and direct wars, instead of using terrorist organisations as subcontractors. This is especially evident in the competition between great powers. But, of course, the great forces are also taking some measures within themselves -- which will follow -- by suspending international agreements in these terrorist activities that they face. The most typical example of this is the ETA terrorist organization, the IRA terrorist group, or the German Baader-Meinhof. These three terrorist organizations were destroyed by powerful states where they were not allowed to grow or to develop politically. In the context of terrorism, now putting aside all these historical and political facts, it is an insult to mind, wisdom, conscience, and common sense to occupy the state of the Republic of Turkey and our great nation with a number of Marxist Leninist propaganda sources. Why? Because the state of the Republic of Turkey is not a state out of tree holes, and this nation is not made up of artificial partnerships such as Belgium, Switzerland, the United States or Canada. Its roots come from a structure of thousands of years of history and a powerful tradition of state. I mean, it's an expression of determination and determination to live together over a thousand years. The last time this determination and determination existed was when Sevr had ruled that it was either the will or the death. He resurrected from the ashes and showed it once again under international guarantee in Lausanne. This is an expression that the great Turkish nation, with all its colors and elements, is also a nation of armies, so there is no need for formal uniforms when it comes to the country. Respected lawmakers, being present in a geography that has been intersected in the Middle East, Asia and Europe for thousands of years and has been the center of everything, in exchange for survival, you face either direct wars or acts of terrorism. In the last century, the states we've been competing with have tried with riots, riots, and terrorist attempts that they have not been able to achieve by various means of war. For these purposes, our country has been haunted by a separatist terrorist organization, especially since 1984. This terrorist organisation, based on a racist and separatist basis, has been specifically aimed at disrupting the bond of brotherhood in Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions. From time to time, the PKK, which has been brought to the point of extinction by decisive struggles, has been given life water by the result of political accounts and debates. The most concrete manifestation of this was the dream of a national unity and brotherhood project, romanticized between 2009 and 15 years, and democratic expansion. In the process, the Turkish Armed Forces, the most reliable and strategic foot of the Turkish state tradition, have been weakened and tried to discredit and have been partially successful. Because Turkey's strategic black boxes have been opened, important information and documents have been exposed, military achievements have been underestimated, investigations have been carried out with false and false files, even terrorists who have killed hundreds of citizens have been made secret witnesses, and large family dramas have been brought to prison from every rank. So much so that no higher-ranking soldiers were left to command our army. On the other hand, tent courts were set up in Habur, and so the terrorists moved to cities, even though they declared that they had no regrets, and the message of the bloody separatist was read in the squares and through the media, and tried to magnetize it like a mythic hero. On top of that, compromises that would destroy our unity and unity, especially the Mahalile Administration Act, which was given at the end of secret talks in Oslo, and finally, the consensus that existed in Dolmabahçe came to the agenda. The terrorist organization, which has been dealt with by all these compromises, has suddenly seen itself as an official authority and a position of action and has begun to subject itself to institutionalisation, such as arms, minering, courting, and a shadowy state air. President Erdoğan has made it very clear and expressive in his statement to the daily Hurriyet, dated September 7, 2015. I read exactly: The solution process was judged by a betrayal. They viewed the solution process as a process of stockpiling weapons for themselves in the southeast, in part in the east, and they made a very serious stockpile of weapons. In this period, let's let it go, let's not see it, let's not hear it, let's not hear it, let's not hear it, let's not know. As a result of its political prediction, the region and Turkey have paid heavy prices, the lives have been burned, the furnaces have been sunk, and our country has been in great chaos. So, in the statement of Mr. Davutoglu, Turkey has reached the point of having a beka problem. Now it's clear that tar can't be boiled sugar, but the price is too high. However, what they called the Turkish Armed Forces was the same Turkish Armed Forces. Despite the isolated events, individual behaviors, the training of the Turkish Armed Forces had nothing but to fight those who meant for the unbreakable integrity of the country and the nation. I'd like to express this from a living example of my individual life to our great Council. Dear lawmakers, last week I visited a fellow Erzurum in GATA. While serving as commander of the Special Forces in Ankara, he temporarily went to the area on a mine removal mission in Amanos, and lost both his feet as a result of stepping on a mine while carrying out his duty as a member of the Prophet's furnace. I expressed my condolences to him during my visit, and afterwards I said, "Dear fellow citizens, dear sir, do you have any orders, instructions, anything? Because by shrinking in front of that view, you can't say anything else. He too, sir. God bless him. We have fulfilled our duty, but my dear teacher, I have a father in Erzurum. I was willing to take the leave of Ramadan and serve him both when he performed his surgery, and to serve him as a son, but my Lord saw fit to do so; please, my father is entrusted to you, my father is entrusted to you in the hospital, and I ask you to do it for me -- as his son. He said, "We have indeed come to the point where the word is finished, and we are both in a moment of silence. His name is Jacob Kutman. Please, after I've been through this one-on-one, my plea from you, by sacrificing it to political debates, let no one claim that the Turkish Armed Forces were no longer a Prophet's furnace, as they had done in the past. So we would like to point out that we support this law, which is designed to fight terrorism more systematically and strongly, which includes giving authority and responsibilities to the experts, because we believe in it and we do it because we put it in our election statement. In our statement I'm going to read... look, especially from here, through Parliament, I speak to the apocalypse consciences of those who have actually made this claim, not a blind supporter of the National Movement Party. The National Movement Party has long-term vision and programmes, which bring it to the forefront, my country and my nation first. At the point, if there is anything useful to the country, it has always supported it, and this will be its command, its political stance from now on. Look, I'm reading a paragraph from our November 1 election statement, and the sentence we put on our programme for the fight against terrorism: our anti-terrorism clause, which we put in our declaration on November 1st, which led to lack of co-ordination between the Turkish Armed Forces, the Gendarmes and the Security Forces, will be eliminated in order to neutralize the terrorist elements, which will be dealt with in order to combat the understanding terrorist elements, as a member of the nation and as a member of the nation. Furthermore, the Turkish Armed Forces' legal infrastructure for the deployment of the Turkish Armed Forces in order to ensure that they can act in confidence in their work and not be subjected to unjust and illegal accusations in the future, in order to bring legal protection to public officials in the fight against terrorism, in case local planning is insufficient in the fight against terrorism and the central planning of the General Staff. Is that all we're gonna stay with? No. Look, I'm also a member of the National Defense Commission. We've been discussing it over and over in our commission meetings, and Mr. Minister, AKP people and fellow lawmakers from the other party have witnessed it. The Turkish Armed Forces and other law enforcement forces have a lot of problems, not only in connection with this clause, but I want to say this again because I draw your attention to the demands of the TSK and the law enforcement forces and the volunteer village guards who are fighting terrorism. Because, once upon a time, they were victimized, really ignored, even targeted by terror. So, in this context, I say that everyone in charge of the fight against terrorism, all law enforcement forces, all persons unofficially or unofficially, have a lot of problems, and it's good to support them by putting an additional clause in some way. And with that same logic, in this metaphor, from the lowest rank to the highest rank, we're actually facing a lot of problems between both members of the Turkish Armed Forces and their support units. Believe me, these people have a lot of problems, including their rights, including their safety, including equipment, equipment. About their salary, about their social rights, someone has a right to live, someone doesn't; someone's sidelines are very different, others are very different. And at the point where they're being repaired, we specifically ask that the same sensitivity be shown. Sir, there's another request I've never seen before that we have a lot of friends who actually work in civilian status, especially in the Turkish Armed Forces and organizations. Some of them are employees, some of them are civil servants. And these are sometimes considered military personnel when it comes to the rights of equity in practice -- I mean, any contribution that might be in their favor -- but when they're offered a mission in a chain of command, or at a point of service, they're suddenly considered civilians, or vice versa. So at the point of resolving such injustices -- our fellow civil servants and workers who work in these military facilities also have many difficulties -- we ask the High Council, sir, to address them as well. In short, sir, as the National Movement Party, we would like to point out that this law, sir, has come out in the face of a great deal of need, and that we have concluded that it will increase morale and motivation for all of our law enforcement forces, especially our armed forces, in many parts of East Anatolia, even in the metropolitan cities, without any misunderstandings. At the same time, in the future, as we have experienced bad examples, we as party support, sir, at the point where we will not be victims of such a law, especially in the presence of a court of law, sir, especially in the presence of a secret witness, in the presence of a freak, and in the face of great sacrifices, at the cost of being a veteran from time to time a part of his body being destroyed, in order not to be a victim in the face of such a legal impropriety.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0210par0656	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. On the whole bill, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Coral Danış Beştaş, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0211par0660	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, I strongly condemn the arrest of Mr. Şebnem Körr Fincancı, expert in forensic medicine, professor and human rights activist; Representative of Journalists Without Borders to Turkey Mr. Erol Önder and journalist Ahmet Nessin. And once again, we would like to say from this bench that the speakers, the speakers, who just spoke for the ruling party, did not refuse to admit the source of the instruction, even when they said it was a judgment decision, that it had nothing to do with them. They had prepared so much that they said in Özgür Gündem newspaper how many people who were editor-in-chief on duty had been investigated, how many had testified, how many had been investigated. They studied well. Because they probably knew who would be arrested before. Again, the other speaker came with the Özgür Gündem newspaper and agreed in their own words that these arrests were not free from the ruling party and the palace. The deal is of no importance to us, we already bear witness every day to the attacks on freedom of the press in front of Turkey and to threats that any promise that disturbs the power, the palace, will be punished. This is a terrifying development. They have made this decision to arrest a professor, a world-renowned academic, a human rights activist, a representative of Journalists Without Borders, a representative and a writer who wrote hundreds of counts of violations of media and a writer, the son of St. Nesin. You're gonna lose. This is the last of your losses, your final struggles. Your interference in the newspapers against the public's right to know will never yield results because this, in the opposite way, has become a violent protest throughout the world, and you're going to be under it. The other issue is valued lawmakers: A statement has been made earlier that we are not a radical party. To be honest, that was a pretty grim statement. The AKP was founded in 2002, and we're rootless? We are representatives of a political tradition since the 1990s. We're returning the promise of those who told us we weren't radically radical. That's right, those who eat the bread of February 28th can't talk to us about roots, they can't talk about it. We are, yes, against those who support ISIS, against those who send weapons.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0212par0666	Where are you in the kandil?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0211par0667	Yeah, well, we're against guns, violence and terror, but a tradition that's been proven by the world like you, who sends support to ISIS, who arrests journalists who send guns, can't even talk about being radical. Dear friends, it's a bill that needs a very long assessment of the future bill, but I'd like to put it this way, and first of all, this is an immunity bill. This is the punishment for crimes committed in different provinces of Turkey, the exculpation of the perpetrators who committed these crimes, and the immunity of the military in the region. From here, the Parliament, which lifts immunity from this parliament to the elected MPs, brings the law of immunity to the military, and in fact, it is a coup without calling it "OHAL," without calling it "s name," without calling it "management." This is an alliance of soldiers with power and opposition parties, which is a contract. You have to make that very clear. The National Defence Commission met in three hours or so and passed through the Commission. This bill has the content and property of the Republic of Turkey's military and civil bureaucracy, a historical block against all opposition and revolutionary forces in the country, especially the Kurdish people. This bill is a clear proof that since the founding of the republic, a singular understanding of the ideology and political line established on certain rejections has been intended to continue for another century. Yes, we're dealing with a new 93 concepts that we've said over and over and over again from this platform that the whole world knows about, without the destructive effects of the process in our memories, and without facing them. So what really happened in '93, in the 90s -- as one of the human rights advocates and legalists who witnessed the period -- in the 90s, the concept of the 93s? What happened to the ruling party, which said that when it came to power, it would face that process, deal with it, apologize if the state had to, to do this 180 degree transformation? The two Born Wrestling-Tansu Loller have now re-enacted the events of that period. There's a book about those days. There's a chapter in Mr. Fikret Bila's book "The Front of Command" I'd like to share with you. Mr. Dogan Wrestling, the Chief of Staff at the time: they were giving me an environment to do whatever I wanted. I've been filling up. We were literally filling it up like it was martial law. That's how we worked. The situation required it. Again, from the same book: Demirel was pleased. None of the governors said anything to me, and you don't have the authority. They didn't say anything, they all did what I said. There was a very good coordination. The governors knew what we were up against, and they were doing the best they could. You've got to hand it over. I can't draw command right now, but we were actually fulfilling our wishes, our decisions. Yes, in terms of concept, in the 93 concept, the business was allocated to soldiers, private operatives. Unjudgmental executions, unsolved unknowns, village evacuations, rangers, covered funds, state-of-the-art laws, gangulations, drugs, all sorts of events took place at that time, and ultimately, the period described by the General Staff as low-density warfare has become the reality of the country. With considerable propaganda from the visual and written media, long - suffering and lynch culture have been considered a common reflex of society, and has been counted as a casehead. The best Kurdish is the dead Kurd. The official opinion has become the average sense of society. All Kurds would have had their share of this average feeling, unfortunately, because I'm talking about unsolved murders, unsolved executions with tens of thousands, and a dark historical gap that we still can't face the consequences of today. Yes, I was actually given a start in 1991 when I attended the funeral myself. With the abduction and abduction, the unsolveds had actually begun, and the Tansu Çiller-Natural Wrestling duo, as always, continued their support until the end. It is written in Louis Bonaparte's book Eighteen Brumaire (Ill). Napoleon's blow compares the earlier coup by his uncle Napoleon Bonaparte, and he writes the following sentence that will later become popular: Hegel, somewhere, observes: All the great historical events and individuals are repeated almost twice. Hegel forgot to add, tragedy in the first, comedy in the second, but we don't live in comedy, we're in the middle of this process, along with very severe massacres, human rights violations. Yes, at the moment, I would like to ask the main opposition party and the other party that has been tailed by the ruling party: What is necessary to see that the concept of the '90s, still called the darkest period of our country, has been of no use to us? Do we really have to have a civil war for this? Obstructing a civil war is one of the great duties of this Parliament. We can build a Turkey where everyone in this country, all the differences in Turkey, all the languages, identities, beliefs and cultures can live together as brothers and sisters. There are ways, but we can't avoid the same consequences by bringing the same conditions back. Yes, the State of Emergency was set up as an exception to the laws created during the State of Emergency, and the OHD system, which actually meant killing, but unfortunately, there was a whole situation here in international terminology where the low-intensity war was held at a manageable and acceptable level, balancing the political uncertainty and the inability to govern the crisis to maintain political order. However, Agamben describes this situation as an exact match to our present: the modern totalitarianism can also be described as a legal civil war, which allows not only political opponents to be integrated into the political system, but, for one reason or another, to be removed from the body. Yeah, the bill that's on our agenda right now is a legal civil war, in fact, a law that can be defined. My dear friends, yesterday I was in Highova, and I was in Gever. I can't explain it for hours, let's say it in a minute: make sure that whoever goes, doesn't feel like Turkey. We've detected hundreds of buildings that have only been bombed, despite multiple identification checks. No sign of combat. The curfew was only used to eliminate buildings. We, a five-member delegation, were prevented from making a press statement with two scorpions. There's no law there, there's no law, there's no civil policy; there's only weapons, there's power, there's difficulty, and there's no power you can talk to, there's no power you can talk to. If it is a province of Turkey, Ankara must unfortunately see it and solve this problem. The solution to this problem is not weapons and war; the solution to this problem cannot be built on death, it cannot be built on security policies; we have tried it many times, it has been tried in Turkey, and it has been caused to great suffering each time. Dear friends, the state of Emergency bill is very heavy, and we all know very well that when the ruling party comes to power, it will deal with the concept of 93, with custody, with what happened during the State of Emergency. The three parties in parliament, apart from the Peoples' Democratic Party, the most important and important representative of civil politics, who are currently supporting this bill, as we are, fully support this coup agreement. However, this agreement, this contract, this deed, which will actually lead to civil war, is in front of us as a bill that will make the darkness of the coming days even more pitchy, and if this law is passed, it will not only be implemented in Highova, Nusaybin, Silvan, or Sur. It is a law that can be used to eliminate opposition and opposition in Gezitepe and in Yozgat, or in Çorum, or in Gündoğdu Square, as well as in Redlay Square, because the purpose of this law is to eliminate all the focus of opposition and opposition. Because the step that is being built right now is fascism, it's one man's rule, and those who really resist fascism are going to say the last word, we have no doubt about it. Dear friends, what does this bill really bring? So there's no need to explain this for a long time, but it's all being handed over to the military. It consists of 17 articles; the trial of the Chief of Staff and the commanders of the forces is subject to the Prime Minister's permission; the trial of those who serve in the districts is subject to the permission of the governor. The provisions for the postponement of the Turkish Penal Code will also apply to soldiers, and Turkish Armed Forces will be able to participate in operations conducted in all municipal centres by the Ministry of Interior's proposal and by the Council of Ministers' decision. You're going to say: "Don't you have it now?" There's an actual situation, but the law is being passed, and it's being tried to legalize. The reason he was even one step ahead of the 1990s was that in the 1990s, these were inadmissible verbs, unacceptable murders, and now their legal basis is being established. Again, in the event of the deployment of TSK personnel in the provinces here, co-ordination, cooperation and supervision will be carried out by governors. There are other issues: The commander's written order will be given all kinds of procedures, and the decision of the commanding officer will be submitted to the judge's approval in 24 hours. Here the judiciary is out, politics is out, all legal institutions are out. There's a full re-entry process, and the alleged crimes committed by military personnel will be considered a military offense. Whether it's murder or torture, whether it's theft, drugs, or any other case, it'll be considered a military offense, and there will be no civil trial. And indeed, the relative relief of the solution process stands before us as a law proposal to take a step towards a period where the situation is completely heavier, harsher, and citizens do not trust each other, where everyone doubts about the other, where there is no safety of life and property, where there is no freedom of thought and freedom of expression. That, of course, is how those who claim to be opposed to custody and who have been fighting custody since the establishment of the government, who have been dealing with Ergenekon, Balyoz and so on. Yes, there's an agreement here, but what's given, what's not taken, all citizens of Turkey have the right to know. And this war will continue until the end of time. It means that this is one of the palace's proposals for the law he's prepared. Unfortunately, that's right in front of us. This will give the military both operational authority and the social opposition will be crushed by a palette of immunity by the soldier indirectly wearing the armor of immunity for this operation. Yes, dear friends, this bill means that if it becomes law, the EMASIA Protocol, which was cancelled in 2010, will be implemented again. Instead of the statement of the ruling party, which we have heard and heard these statements over the years, the situation that has already been declared in Şırnak, Cizre, Yüksekova, Silvan, Sur, and all the places where curfew has been declared will be official. And we're going through a period where we're actually shared on social media, and we're not even allowed to talk about it, and we're going through these harsh insults, and inhuman slogans, and we're going through a period where people go into the bedroom and they say where love is going to live. And here, if it's not really wanted for citizens to have a break, and there's definitely resistance to this persecution, we can already see that it's going to be a very bad day. Dear friends, we're going to rephrase our views on matter, but I want to say once again that we are completely against this law, this law of coup, this law of custody. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0213par0685	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0214par0686	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0213par0687	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0214par0688	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, in regard to this bill, the opposition is caught in the line of power. Second, he accused me of supporting the coup deal again. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0213par0689	Yes, Mr. Akçay, come in. You're going to talk?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0214par0691	Mr. Kamil Aydın will speak.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0213par0692	Here you are, Mr. Aydın. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0215par0696	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, sir, we have just made it clear from the stand that we are not a political movement that falls in love one evening like romantic lovers; we are members of a long tradition of forty-seven years, thank God, even more apolitical. We know exactly what we're talking about, what we want, and we put it on our schedule, and we can read it as a whole text. We are determined to fight terrorism. So it's not the palace or this law that has affected us. I've just shared my dream with you -- the martyr with no two legs, the children he left behind, the mother who's stuck with us, the one who won't let go of my arm -- ask me about the account of the mothers who lost their children. So, when I say there's nothing in this cry, when, in whose presence, will I answer for what? That's why the National Movement Party stands, or we didn't forget to meet in the corners, in the fountains, in the hotels, in the palaces yesterday. Everyone here has a great plague, and everyone will answer according to the plague, but we are not all about politics, we are not all about political power, we are not coming from a Machiavellist structure that says everything is fair. I'm offended by one more thing: the best Kurdish is the dead Kurd. I curse a man who can say I am. In the history of the Republic of Turkey, the Turkish nation has a thousand-year-old brotherhood as if there never existed... look, this is not a geography of Tamil guerrillas living in the Basque region, we're talking about a geography that has lived together for a thousand years, lived together, ate, drank, cried, laughed, laughed. Therefore, the best Indian for President Roosevelt is a dead Indian, but thank God for the glory of the Turkish nation, the best Kurdish is a dead Kurd. It's never appropriate to say that, and we condemn those who say that with something high. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0216par0702	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0217par0704	Mr. President, in his speech just now, they said that the government is working with ISIS, saying that it has repeatedly made statements to our group that are out of line. I'd like to take a word with you on that, if you'll excuse me, according to 69.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0216par0705	But what sentences did he pick on, Mr. Turan?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0217par0706	He said he's in business with the government.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0216par0707	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0218par0709	I didn't say, "We're partners." I said, "I'm partners." I didn't say that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0217par0711	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Because of the importance of the law, we try to take things down so that they can go away in peace, but sometimes there are so many words that we're going to say, well, it's not going to happen. Look, dear friends, you may not like the government, you may not like us, but this country is our country, this nation is our nation. I don't think there's any other claim that this country is in business with ISIS, poor, ruthless, out of understanding. Again, we said, again and again: we know why this global operation was done, we know why those who framed the PKK threw it away, but we are amazed that those who were carrying weapons to the PKK, those who attended the PKK's funeral, those who didn't curse the PKK even once are saying it. You've talked here for 20 minutes; the soldier is bad, the police are bad, the state is bad... you haven't said a word to the PKK, you haven't said a word. Look, if this law is on the table, there are reasons for it. I won't be able to enter EMASIA because I don't have the time, but I'll tell you this: the concept has changed, and you know it. You brought them down from the mountain to the city, they came to the city. You see the acts of terrorism. Have you ever once cursed the terror that landed in the city and cursed the boilers of these pits? You don't have a statement every 20 minutes. Everybody's bad, a PKK's good, you're good. That's not gonna happen. Then you'll come out here, you'll curse the PKK, you'll curse ISIS, you'll curse the DHKP-C, and we'll tell you well done. But you, my terrorist is good, ISIS is bad... can that happen?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0219par0715	That's what you mean, he's your terrorist.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0217par0716	So I say again: The position of the AK PARTY is clear; ISIS is a terrorist, PKK is a terrorist, DHKP-C is a terrorist. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0220par0719	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0221par0720	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0220par0721	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0221par0722	Sir, we've been accused of being tailed by the Justice and Development Party. They didn't have any feisty about the tail, I'm surprised, but I'd like to answer the accusation at the point of the CHP's queue.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0220par0723	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0221par0726	Mr. President, we've talked about this before, but we need to talk. This Congress faced a freak called 4+4+4. The Republican People's Party puts its life on the line in the House in those law talks where the secular education system was bombed and destroyed, and puts its life on the commissions. That day, no one with the Justice and Development Party said anything about it. Later, a secular sensibilities developed in one of the parties. We've seen the coup in the country. We're dealing with a party that describes themselves as the party of the Gezi. In the amendment to the Civil Code, the CHP MPs defended the bench, so what were the MPs doing at the time when the public's right to speak was restricted? Recep Tayyip Erdogan, again on such a Ramadan evening, when he went backstage at two o'clock in the morning, the members of the BDP had also queued backstage to drink tea with Recep Tayyip Erdoğan; they entered the compliment race. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So if you don't believe us, let's give you a reference somewhere else to believe in. ▪ Everyone reads the book "Empire Diaries. " The AKP and HDP's common plot read from that book and then refer to the Republican People's Party as the tailman of the AKP. There's no such thing. So, let's face it: we begged for a parliamentary-oriented study to resolve the Kurdish problem or the terror problem in Turkey. You agreed to a government-oriented study. In government-oriented work, one would be president, one would be autonomous. One of you -- I'm leaving the matter of timing between you -- fooled the other, turned Turkey into a bloodbath. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There were seven martyrs in 2003, 2016 -- this is the year -- 550 martyrs. So I don't know who's tailing who. Someone's got a tail, that sensitivity's not my job.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0222par0734	What kind of language is that, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0221par0735	But the last party to criticize the Republican People's Party on this issue is HDP. I'd like to present that, too.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0223par0737	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0224par0738	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0223par0739	Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0224par0740	Both speakers picked on me, so it's direct. If you'd like...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0223par0741	In what sentence?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0225par0742	He doesn't condemn the PKK. We said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0224par0743	So you've brought it down to the city, no sense, no understanding. And Mr. Special...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0226par0745	Here you go. Congressmans, I have to get the reason for the bullying. I mean, it was just a prank, I want a promise. It's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0224par0747	Sure, I'll say it.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0226par0748	Of course not, I'm not telling you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0224par0749	No, I'm telling you, I took notes.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0226par0750	Is it not clear that some friends have made certain signs in the sense that they are teasing? So I felt the need to make this statement. You're going to talk?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0224par0752	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0226par0753	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0224par0754	We also have a say in the matter of Mr. Special...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0226par0755	Excuse me...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0224par0756	Mr. Special also had a taunt.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0227par0757	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0226par0758	We only do it once, Mr. Beştaş. Your language is corrective; in two minutes, I believe you can handle it.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0228par0760	I hope so. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the claim that it was a global operation, it's a huge balloon, I'll tell you that. We don't do politics, we do politics in our own principles, schedules, and politics, so that you can call us good. And what we do is our executive boards decide.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0229par0763	The board in charge is Kandil.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0228par0764	We don't have any concerns or concerns about getting a good job out of you. And I'll tell you this: We don't tell ISIS that you sent guns in trucks, but the prosecutors do.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0230par0766	Can you tell us what you call the PKK?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0228par0767	We're dealing with a system that has those prosecutors arrested. Prosecutors are currently under arrest in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0231par0768	Can you tell the terrorist organization something? Can you tell me anything about the terrorist organization?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0228par0769	Well, it's pretty clear where we stand on this. We are a party that condemns all kinds of civil activities, actions, and struggles for the establishment of peace and democracy in this country. We never agreed on anything, nor do we intend to give it after that. And we're not a pragmatist party that makes a different policy every day like you, depending on the wind. We're not a party that called it custody yesterday, and today it's a voluntary custody party. That's where we talked about racist spelling and all the other stuff. Let me just say to Mr. Special, that now you've been doing this for years in public language, whether your travel propaganda is really sour. We were on the trip; we were on the trip; we continued on the trip; this did not hold. We were also in dialogue with the ruling party on the solution process, yes, but we were also making the most effective opposition to the ruling party.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0232par0771	Where were you at 4+4+4?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0228par0772	And today, if the process of resolving starts again, whoever is in power, we'll hold the conversation, dialogue, and negotiations until the end. We're a party that's consistent and knows what he's talking about. I would also like to say that we favour the democratic solution and reject your attempts to condemn the negotiations.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0233par0774	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. Third speaker on the entire bill, Levent Gök, Ankara MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0234par0781	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the 387-line bill we're discussing. I salute you all with love and respect. Turkey is not well managed. In Turkey, concepts, law, justice have been shaped according to the daily political state of AKP power, which has been in power for 14 years, conjunctural developments and the consequences of those developments. Turkey must quickly step out of the process, lawmakers. Turkey is going through critical days. Are we aware of any of this? Turkey's situation is being followed by an example by the entire world, and Turkey is surrounded by deep conflicts, deep conflicts, unresolved political behavior every day by an increasing trauma. We're falling apart, we're moving away from each other. Even when we're discussing these huge problems, these terror issues, we're at odds. The ruling party sometimes takes a different position based on its own conjunctural state, and you see another time when the words said a few years ago are forgotten, the laws made that day change as if the AKP spokesman never spoke to them, and AKP power speakers speak differently on that day, blaming the opposition when they want to change the same laws. My dear friends, Turkey's most important problem is this confusion in the AKP (AKP), the understanding of unsound governance, the failure to deal with unresolved problems, the undercoming of it. In the enormous problems caused by these underlying problems, AKP's bisected approaches one day are such a day. The day comes, the process of solutions is declared, all intellectuals who supported power in that process are chief crowns, but all intellectuals who criticize the position of power after the process is over are terrorists. The parties that rightly stimulated the solution process are lynched by the pool media. If you want the process to end, do you want blood flowing in Turkey? When it's said to be very sane advice, these suggestions of opposition parties that suggest principles are being pushed away, again the pool media is full staff to opposition parties, always in the form of a chorus. We want to prevent bloodshed in Turkey, and you prevent it. At the point where today comes, if there will be progress in the process, if there will be no bloodshed in Turkey, let's discuss this problem in parliament. When it is said, opposition parties are treated as terrorists this time. My dear friends, it's important. It's a matter outside of politics, it's a matter of national unity. The slightest wobble on this subject takes us from one end to another. Look, we lost 550 martyrs after June 7th. Like lions, our young policemen, our soldiers have lost their lives. Thousands of homes have been destroyed due to terrorist incidents in the east and southeast, thousands of homes, cities, and counties do not search Syria. A lot of people have emigrated. When you look at the basis of these problems, when the ruling party started a process, he hung it on his billboards, and he said: "The process of solutions has begun, and the tears of your mothers have stopped. They talk, they make AKP. So, what's the process, who's the process, who's the other side of the process? PKK. Who meets in Oslo? AKP. At that time, everything's fine as we walk through that process, so good that the current President says: I sent the friend who was meeting with the PKK. Tell me who's in trouble. There's no sign of the AKP, the pool media. Which PKK? Erdogan, who is currently being described as terrorism and fought, says: "I sent a friend who met with the PKK." If anyone is troubled, let him tell me. The soldiers are silent, too. Then Bashir Atalay, one of the former ministers, says: "The messages of Errand are our thoughts as well. "
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0235par0789	They have denied him a great deal, Mr. Levent.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0234par0790	Later, Yalçın Akdoğan, one of the former ministers, had the ability to read and experience events.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0235par0791	He denied it, too.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0234par0792	A member of the AKP, a member of parliament who reads the future well, reads the future better than we do. When he says, "There's nothing wrong with anyone." We've ruled out saying "Mr. Ocalan" and "opening the PKK flag" as a crime. He says, "It's good news after the government's meeting." My dear friends, while things were good then, the AKP again says in their billboards: "In an extraordinary state, the pressures are over, I live freely in my village." What happened? There have been democratic developments in the AKP and the state of emergency has risen. So, my dear friends, when this process goes on, the Republican People's Party, I'm giving you a loan so there won't be any bloodshed. When he says to the ruling party, isn't that the Republican People's Party's loan pushed away? He was pushed. You're doing it wrong. Let's solve this problem together in Parliament, by observing the sensitivities of the Republic's People's Party, including the MHP, the HDP, the AKP, and the CHP. Why didn't you respect that view? At the time, when everything was good, we will now pass the law on terrorism, which authorises the Armed Forces, but on 10 July 2014, a law passed through this Parliament, a law on the process of resolution, my dear friends, the Law on Ending Terror and Enhancing Social Integration. The purpose of this law is to end terrorism, do political work for it, do socioeconomic work. The AKP passed this law to put it on a legal basis. Who were these interviews with? It was to be done with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). So, then, things are good when the process is going on, the PKK is the crown. So much so that it was first read in the Republic of Turkey in 2013, 2014, and 2015 by Abdullah Ocalan's Nevruz Declaration under the government's security measures in the area of Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0236par0795	They wrote together, Mr. Levent, together.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0234par0796	Now that Turkey has forgotten these things, has Turkey forgotten them? Look where we've come to.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0236par0797	The manifesto was written together, Mr. Levent.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0234par0798	When Abdullah Ocalan's statement was read in Diyarbakır Square, all the televisions were transferred, friends. The police have taken precautions, the soldiers have taken precautions so no one will get hurt. Apo flags everywhere, flags everywhere. Well, he was good then, wasn't he? Well, while he was well, of course, the army collapsed because of the Ergenekon and the Sledgehammer cases. When the EMASIA Protocol is being eliminated, then he says -- the Prime Minister at the time -- President Erdoğan: there's no such thing as this EMASIA Protocol, there's no way, we'll take these steps. Friends, we're going to eliminate the EMASIA Protocol, and we're going to finish it.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0237par0799	We're up.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0234par0800	What are you going to finish? You thought you were democratizing Turkey by removing the protocol signed by the military with the Home Secretary, removing the EMASIA Protocol. You've done something else: the Internal Service Act, my dear friends. You brought the Internal Service Law here, and with the AKP MPs' votes, you changed the Internal Service Law here, and the mission of the Armed Forces has been defined. Isn't that right, soldiers? The duty of the Armed Forces -- in its former case -- has been removed from protecting and protecting the Turkish home and the Republic of Turkey, which has been appointed by the Constitution, and the Armed Forces have only been given a mandate on attacks from abroad, and their duties in internal affairs have been removed. The definition of military service has been changed. The military -- in its former case -- was removed from learning and doing the art of war to protect the Turkish country, its sovereignty and republic; only on July 13, 2013, it was changed to learning and doing the art of war. At the time, a AKP spokesman came out here, and now a member of the AKP Group... when you changed the Civil Service Act, the soldiers were silent. Whatever relationship there was, it was going on between them, so the AKP MP who came up here when the Internal Service Law was being changed said: "The AKP is going to protect us abroad, and the nation will protect the republic." I'm reading it in the same notes.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0238par0803	Why don't you take care of it now?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0234par0804	So when you took out the law that took the soldier's authority over internal affairs, you said that as a justification, and you said that we're taking out the Turkish Armed Forces Act to integrate Turkey into the changing world. The republic is no longer a mission to the military, and the people will protect the republic. We are now destituting the republic as a garrison republic, changing it for the civil republic.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0239par0805	Is that wrong, Mr. Levent?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0234par0806	I've always been told that. Look, my dear friends, where we come from, all of this has been done. While all this is being done, then the soldier is silent, the pool media is embargoing, most of the soldier has gone in because of the Ergenekon and the Sledgehammer cases, and there's no room for anyone to speak up. After all, I sent the friend who was meeting with Prime Minister Erdogan himself, who was in trouble, to tell me that the point that came from today is a pool of blood, total bankruptcy, total bankruptcy. Whatever the AKP said then, it was the other way around. Whatever law the AKP passed in those days, we now rule out the opposite, just like this law. My dear friends, that's the problem. The problem is the unpredictability of the AKP, its non-visional approaches. It is the problem that one day Turkey, with its understanding that it will rule Turkey on such a day, will become a Turkey in Turkey, where only one person will take it without a debate, facing problems that can't get out of internal affairs. We face these problems by facing the AKP. Now, at the coming point, terror has taken its head off, the traumas caused by terrorism are all over the place, and on the one hand, the ruling party, which is interconnected with the Kurdistan Workers' Party in this development line, now arriving, we will fight against it. Of course you will. When we showed you the instructions you gave to the governors in the process of resolving, you were going to do it when you were pouting. What was that directive? The governor has a problem, the soldier wants permission to operate, and the governor says, "No." He says, "The advance is postponed." When he turned it into a weapons depot, we shouted, "Do what you have to do to fight terror." This terror doesn't come to be deceived like that. Although you're used to being deceived, and one day the PKK cheats, and one day we don't know who will. (HPP clapping in rows) You've been deceived... you're confessing to this... we've been tricked into going along with the people. We've been tricked into running the process with the PKK.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0240par0810	Where are you now?
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0241par0811	We're always where we stand.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0234par0812	Dear friends, be serious. We're right across from terror, we love our country. We want the Kurdish problem solved, we want the Kurdish problem solved together in Parliament. I'm saying this beyond politics, so don't make mistakes again. Anti-terrorism: My dear friends, a portion of this law, which is brought against terrorism, is in the State Administration Law, so I don't know if anyone's looking at it or not; and look, the 11th (D) article of the State Administration Law (D) is in the same article as the 12th (J) of this law. So there's a fear in the soldiers, they're pushing for a special law. So, how can the soldier, the Secretary of Defense, get up the other day and say that there have been times when the military didn't operate? Did you correct that statement? You sit side by side with the soldiers, have you corrected that promise? When did you give orders and not a soldier? And you're the Secretary of National Defence, a former Chief of Staff is out, critically critical, Minister, no voice from power. My dear friends, this is how you allowed the military not to operate, by the governors. Now, we move forward. As the Republican People's Party, we view PKK as terrorists and ISIS and the DHKP-C., all organizations with weapons, all organizations that kill innocent people, and underline the need to fight against them, without saying, "It's okay," without saying, "It's okay." (HPP) You need to take with you the Republican People's Party on this terrorism, not in front of you. There are so many mistakes that all the MPs of the Republican People's Party are suffering and traumatizing those events over the bombs that exploded all over Turkey. Look, there's been an explosion in Ankara on October 10, 103 of our citizens have died. We too could have died in that explosion, my dear friends, because there was a Democracy, Peace and Work rally on that day, and our party had decided to meet at 10.30, and the bomb went off in front of the station at 10:05, and we were on our way there; 11 members of the Republican People's Party's Malatya Youth Corps died, and other friends died, and the Ankara County Organization was in great danger that day. I'm one of the first lawmakers to go there, and I'm one of the first lawmakers to go there after two other explosions in Ankara. My dear friends, the painting we see is grave, arms, legs, limbs torn apart; the police are confused, more desperate... These events happen just ten minutes after the explosion, 15 minutes after. We're the first witnesses to the exploding bodies. We're the people who gather limbs to unite those bodies, we're the lawmakers. We've been through the trauma of this terrorism since it happened, and then we've lived in the halls of forensics, my dear friends. There's an explosion, families don't hear from their friends, friends, daughters, CHP MPs in forensics. I'm the first person to identify the dismembered body of our head of Goatören County. I was sorry to say that to his family, but I couldn't tell him about the 16-year-old Destina Peri. When the mother of the 16 - year - old Destina Periya, who had lost her father many years ago, wrapped around my neck, said, "Mr. Deputy, is my daughter in forensic medicine?" I couldn't say, "Yes, I saw her." We've been through this pain. Fight terrorism to the end, but within the framework of human rights, but within the law, no one's nose bleeds. Of course, terror will be destroyed, there will be no terrorist organization left anywhere, no more. The Republican People's Party supports it, but the Republican People's Party gives its support for human rights, for the rule of law, for basic universal principles. No one gets nosebleeds, no innocent people get nosebleeds. Therefore, we are going through a process that needs to be very careful. To save our country from terror, we're not in your way, dear friends. In the matter of immunity, you said, "Let the immunity be lifted, and we will prevent terrorism." Here you go, now you have the gun, now you're in charge. We want terrorism out of the country's agenda as soon as possible. You're in charge, you're in charge. As our citizens, as lawmakers, it is our right as party to ask Turkey to move further into a non-terrorism environment. We demand it from you. Get Turkey out of terrorism as soon as possible, and we're expecting it, and the Republican People's Party will carry out its duties as usual, and I salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit02spe0242par0819	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit03spe0242par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 387. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I'm going to meet the request to speak on behalf of the entire bill. First address on behalf of the person is Hussain Şahin, Bursa MP. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit03spe0243par0008	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act 387 rows that we are meeting on behalf of my own person on the Bill of the Law for Changes in Some Laws. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as you know, the central planning of the General Staff is needed if local planning is insufficient under the scope of the fight against terrorism. The proposed bill aims to establish a legal infrastructure for the deployment of the Turkish Armed Forces in these and similar situations, to ensure that they can act safely in their work and not be exposed to unjust accusations in the future. What do we mean by that? In recent days, especially after the July 22, 2015, following the process of resolving our country, we have seen that the terrorist organization, with political support behind it, wants to bring society back to chaos with the Suruç explosion, and engages in acts of terrorism to disrupt the community's peace, including the entire country. Of course, in fighting this, our law enforcement forces will never fail to establish the peace of our nation. However, we do see that the political extensions of the terrorist organization, especially law enforcement, the Special Forces of the gendarmes, the Police Special Ops, are making very serious accusations to discredit, label, and prove the success of our state's struggle for the peace of our nation. That's why such an arrangement was needed. Because the main goal of the state's law enforcement force is to ensure security, the peace of society, the well-being of society, the continuation of peace and brotherhood, and the survival of the state. Today, we see that the law enforcement forces who carried it out have been abused by some groups and have been exposed to a campaign against defamation, even though the struggle they've fought in particular adhered to democratic rules and rules of law. So such an arrangement was needed. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are still being carried out on the principle of the state of law, on the basis of basic rights and freedoms, on the requirements of democratic society and on the principle of measure. We're investigating together that our law enforcement forces, fighting terrorism, have put forward a human-based struggle and intend never to harm the civilian population who live there, ever, or the floor. Because there, our law enforcement forces, whose priority is to separate the terrorist and the civilian citizen, are unfortunately exposed to smears by political extensions, and we're all investigating the struggle against them in the media, on the council stand, and in that area. Our Turkish Armed Forces are used to support the general law enforcement forces in the fight against the country's undivisable integrity, preventing our citizens from using their basic rights and freedoms freely, using all kinds of weapons and methods for this, even non-human tactics. Article 3201 states that the Minister of Interior is responsible for the country's general security and security, that the Minister of Interior will carry out these tasks through the Security General Directorate and the General Command of the Gendarmes, and that he will be able to benefit from the Council of Ministers' decision and military forces in the case of need, which we are already experiencing. What is the purpose of this bill? This bill allows authorities to enter the dwelling, the workplace or closed spaces, with the written order of the unit commander, limited to those who may have a problem with the delay in operations against terrorist organisations, to monitor or arrest the person, and to access their attachments. This order must be submitted to a judge's approval within 24 hours. The activities of Turkish Armed Forces personnel within this scope have been considered military crimes committed in military service and in their duties, as ordered by Article 11/d of Law 5442. On the other public officials who have been assigned to fight terrorism, however, it has been adopted to enforce the Law provisions regarding the alleged crimes of Officers 4483 and other Public Servants. In addition, the investigation by the judicial authorities for the crimes committed during the fight against terrorism is crucial -- for our chief of staff and commanders of the General Staff, for other military persons, according to the National Minister of Defence or Interior, for those in the central agencies of the Interior Ministry or its members, and for the governors, for those in the region or in the province, has been granted permission by the governors, for those in the district. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it is known, those involved in the fight against terrorism, do their duty with great courage and sacrifice, offering their lives without hesitation to ensure the integrity of the country and the safety of the nation. With such understanding, we are making arrangements with this bill to ensure that public officials who are carrying out their duties in the fight against terrorism will not hesitate to wear them out with unjust allegations and that they will be able to carry out their duties within the framework of the legal state. In this scope, it has been ruled that it will not be subject to arrest, detention or arrest measures until a warrant has been granted for crimes alleged to have been committed during the fight against terrorism, and it has been decided that the state can impose damages due to the nature of the mission, or the nature of the fight against terrorism, as a result of acts of terrorism, only due to the government's restitution, and that the minister may be able to impose damages on the employees of the state, provided the minister finds appropriate. Again, in cases brought against them due to the nature of their duties in the fight against terrorism, public officials in the position of victims, plaintiffs, plaintiffs, or plaintiffs were allowed to pay for their counsel from the budgets of the National Defence or Interior Ministry. Of course, even as we're doing the Parliament's work here, our law enforcement forces, our Special Operations officers, and our Special Ops units are fighting terrorism, and as I mentioned in the first place, they're doing a life-threatening effort to ensure the safety of our government and our nation. That's what they're doing there, in order not to compromise the democratic laws of law. But we're making this arrangement so that nothing happens to them later, especially politicians who are the extensions of terrorism, feel safe in the smear campaigns about them or the cases that will be filed later. We passed this arrangement through our National Defense Commission last week. We also received the support of the Republican People's Party and the National Movement Party as we spent it in our national Defense Commission. I, along with the AK PARTY Group, would like to thank both parties' group. I salute you all with respect, love and conversation, good luck and good luck, in the hope that the arrangement will give a little bit of confidence to our police and our soldiers, who have fought and fought and fought in the fight against terrorism.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit03spe0244par0023	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. The second speaker on behalf of the entire bill is Dursun Cicek, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Flower.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit03spe0245par0027	Mr. President, dear MPs, I'd like to start by respectfully greeting you. I'd like to focus on the right to live, especially in this conversation I'm about to make on behalf of myself. In universal law, the most important right to live is the right to live, the highest right to live, so it's the state's most basic duty to preserve the right to life that terrorism targets. For years, the process of solutions has been confined to police stations, military barracks in this country, and the rangers have been left at the mercy of terror. It is the move performed in typhoons, especially in the West, in extraordinary circumstances, in the United States, that the Chief of Staff should be tasked with counterterrorism under extraordinary conditions, under a government which Turkey's Grand National Assembly has drawn up in a framework of governments that have put the vote of confidence in. Of course, the most important item in this bill is the 12th article. According to this article, the 12th article is hungry in the event that the general law enforcement force is necessary to combat terrorism or that acts of terrorism seriously disrupt public order. Therefore, political and legal responsibility for the implementation of this clause will surely be in the government. In the decision made by the Council of Ministers -- again in terms of political and legal responsibilities -- there is a clause in the scope of the mission, the scope of the mandate, the scope of the intelligence authority, the use of support weapons, the commitments to the deployment of troops and the relations of the authorities, the measures to be taken by the relevant public institutions and organisations, and other issues that are required by the planning and monitoring of the tasks involved -- there is a clause here, which is open, again, that gives political and legal responsibility to the rule, which is subject to abuse of the law. Therefore, the responsibility of this clause will also belong to power, to the government. In this framework, the General Staff determines the diameter of the troops needed to carry out its mandate, its organization, its deployment locations, its power shift, its command relations and other necessary issues. Of course, at the end of every substance, there's a substance that uses open-ended initiative. Therefore, the Council of Ministers and the Chief of Staff must be very careful to use them. These are legal and political responsibilities. As I have just highlighted, we know that the Western countries use this practice frequently, especially in the fight against natural disasters; we are watching together from televisions, from the media, that the central government has commissioned military troops to remove this extraordinary condition by instructing the general staff or central armed forces. Of course, at this point, at this point in the fight against terrorism, in particular after June 7th, were there years of aiding and abetting the PKK terrorist organization in the process of resolving it? Weren't terror organizations, including ISIS, given open and covert support to change the regime in Syria, the co-chair of the Great Middle East Project and for ideological reasons? Weren't they given much by this political power, which is called law and justice? Isn't it that under the cover of so-called military custody thousands of members of the Turkish Armed Forces have been subjected to spiritual torture in prisons for many years, while we've removed the EMASIA Protocol? Hasn't the Internal Service Act been changed? Haven't thousands of soldiers who've succeeded in fighting terrorism been wiped out? Wasn't the GES Command and its troops removed from the Turkish Armed Forces and assigned to the Undersecretary of the MIT? And in Istanbul, Ankara, all over Turkey, were car bomb-loaded, explosive-loaded terrorist organizations detonated and our innocent people slaughtered? Shouldn't this bill be corrected by the mistake of removing the GES Command from the Armed Forces that caused this intelligence weakness? Shouldn't the GES have been reconnected with the Turkish Armed Forces? We're authorizing operations, we're not giving intel, we're not giving intel. This bill is incomplete in that regard. Who created private law enforcement criminals who fought terrorism for years, who were sentenced to life imprisonment by chiefs of staff, who had witnessed terrorists, who had been subjected to enemy law against soldiers? Didn't he change the trial of soldiers in July 2009 and hand it over to the judges and prosecutors of what they call thousands of soldiers, special authority court-martials? As CHP, we are against any kind of terror. We're always with the security forces in the fight against terrorism because it's the government that puts them in charge of fighting terrorism. Therefore, if there are mistakes made, if there are political errors, their account must be asked of political power. In this regard, we will always be followers of the investigation and punishment of our Constitution and of the European Convention on Human Rights. We will follow the responsibility of the authorities authorized for the warrant. We invite political power to be sincere and do the right thing about this bill and support for security forces. Showing the proper respect for our martyrs and veterans, offering them an honorable level of life, has been presented to you on the agenda of this House over and over again. But -- and here's our Minister of Finance -- why don't we bring the Bills to the House to give the rights that our officers, our petty officers, our guards, our experts, our retired experts, who have resigned, especially the victims of the conspiracy cases, why don't we discuss them here? Because the government is not sincere in these matters; it gives only the task, it gives only responsibility, it gives no rights and no freedom, it does not correct its rights. (Cheers and applause) We submitted our proposals to this bill in addition to the Commission's report, but our efforts to improve it with the ruling party's no-no vote have failed. With names such as Ergenekon (,,,,,,,,, military Espionage (,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, We expect our new Secretary of Defense to be true to his word. There are discrepancies between the Penal Code and the Penal Code concerning the statute of limitations on postponement of the bill, converting it to optional sanctions, and rescinding the sentence, under which limits have been kept. Many people, especially military doctors, are victims of this. It is a requirement of universal law to raise these limits to two years and ensure equality. Another limit to civilians, another limit to soldiers, law won't accept it. Finally, I want to point out that while the government is serving the Armed Forces in the fight against terrorism, while they are continuing to become martyrs and veterans to the areas where terrorists have made them unsafe, it is the conscience of this great Assembly to meet its demands for its rights in order to provide them with an honorable life. I salute you, thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit03spe0246par0041	Thank you, Mr. Flower.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit03spe0247par0042	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit03spe0246par0043	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit03spe0247par0044	In his speech, he claimed that the EC PARTY government supported ISIS and other terrorist organisations. The EC PARTI authorities have never supported any terrorist organization at any time; they have fought the PKK, the DHKP-C, ISIS, and other terrorist organisations, and are now continuing this fight with the same determination.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit03spe0246par0045	Thank you, Mr. Mush. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I'd like you to vote...
tbmm-2016-06-21sit03spe0248par0050	We have a roll call, sir.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit03spe0246par0051	There's a roll call. I'll do the roll call. First, I'm going to identify the members of lawmakers who have requested a roll call. Mr. Cicek, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Minister, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Şaner, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Altaca Kayşoglu, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Atsici, Mr. Çamak, Mr. Turpcu, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Elek, Mr. Kulcuoğlu. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-06-21sit04spe0246par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough attendance in the roll call before the vote was passed on the provisions of the 387 rows of the Bill of Law. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. Since the second roll call did not provide enough meetings, the decision was made to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Wednesday (June 22, 2016) at 14 p.m. on Wednesday (June 22, 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00, so I'll say good night.
