tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Siirt MP Cadri Yıldırım, who asked for a statement concerning the allegations of pressure on academics and journalists. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0002par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, today is the day of Kurdish journalism on April 22nd. Because today, 18 years ago, a newspaper, which is the first example of the Kurdish newspaper, which is now known as Kurdistan, was published in front of you, 18 years ago. Therefore, today is also the day of Kurdish journalism. After I present this to you, I'm going to go over the other subject and try to integrate these two issues. As it is known, today is also the day when a number of journalists who have been arrested and tried without arrest have been forced to answer, and at the same time, we will not be a party to this crime. It is also the day when four of our academics who signed the declaration were arrested. We're going through a process where both our journalists and our academics are being tried. Yes, there's nothing that I've just shown you that's changed between the pressure conditions of 18 years ago and the pressure conditions that are being applied today. At that time, the newspaper had to change three countries and five cities -- the newspaper I showed just now -- from 1898 to 1902 -- because of the pressures of Sultan Abdulhamit. These pressures are made up of a number of pressures, such as beating, torture, hand-kissing your men, fabricating crimes and rationalizing judgment. We need to divide the Abdulhamite period in this direction: one involves a normal, democratic and humanitarian period; no one objects to that. At one time, Saidi Kurdi's period of abuse was the expression of Saidi Nursi, and his palace was also an agavatat in the words of Saidi Nursi, a place where only the Aghas would sit, and Sultan Abdulhamit was the father of the Aghas himself. I'm not the one who said that, but Saidi Nursi. So we need to separate these two periods. For him, the first term is indeed a period of great justice, but unfortunately, in the second term, he failed to maintain what we call normal conditions.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0003par0013	Then what did he say? Tell me about your next regrets.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0002par0014	Now, in the first issue... why has this newspaper moved so much, moved so much? It's the pressure. According to Mithat Bedirhan, the publisher of the newspaper says that the newspaper of Kurdistan was banned by the Ministry of Interior, including your approval to enter the country. I beg that the ban be lifted. Later, we look at it, and it says, contrary to hope, the ban has not been lifted, and those with the newspaper have been arrested. I have been asked to come to Istanbul, and I have been told that if I do not come, I will be asked and forced to come to Egypt with an artificial crime. I learned from the European press that you arrested and tortured five of my brothers like murderers. What saddens me is not this disaster that my brother suffered, but that this unlawful practice of the caliphic office, which is expected to be justice, has disgraced us against Europe, and it has made my heart bleed. I swear by Allah that it will only increase my patience. There's a saying that the lion's paws become violent as the blows descend. Therefore, justice is expected from the caliphate, and we will never return to the country until we see this justice done.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0004par0016	Mr. Lightning, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0002par0017	So, what country do you go to? The land of justice. I salute you all with the hope that such justice will dominate our entire country.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0004par0019	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to İzmir MP Kerem Ali Continuum, who wants to speak about İzmir. Here you go, Mr. Constant.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0005par0024	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First, tomorrow, April 23rd, the 96th anniversary of our Parliament, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the Grand Leader Ataturk also gave this holiday to the children. I'm celebrating the holiday of our nation, our country, especially our children's holiday. I hereby thank and cherish the founder of our republic, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Again, unfortunately, we have three martyrs today as a result of the treacherous ambush in the battle on the 25th mile of the Tunceli-Elazig road. I ask for the mercy of the three martyrs and of the martyrs we have fought in this fight to this day, the Lord God, and my condolences to their families. Again, I'd like to stress in particular that the successes in the fight against terrorism continue with intensity, increasing. Today there are successful operations launched by our security forces in the countryside. I hope we've come to the end of this terror. We're gonna beat this terror. Last time I screamed from this bench, we won't divide this country, we won't divide this country, I hope. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're talking about Izmir. Our government's projects continue rapidly in Izmir. Yesterday, as part of the Izmit Bay Pass Bridge of İzmir-Istanbul highway, the last table of Izmit Bay Bridge was placed by our President, our Prime Minister, our ministers; good luck. Yalova-Stanbul lands in six minutes. Hopefully, when the highway is over, Izmir-Istanbul will be down in three and a half hours. The services continue to be limitless. On the other hand, the work of the Izmir-Ankara high-speed train continues quickly. Hopefully, 2019 is our target, and we'll finish it. Meanwhile, the mayor of İzmir Metropolitan has arrived, and has made some talks here, Mr. Aziz Kocaoglu, who has been given all kinds of support and will continue to be given. We're doing everything for Izmir, and we'll keep doing it. But while we are doing this, the local administration sometimes really upsets us. Here are the stats of the Opposite Sports Club, the Eyestep Sports Club. Look, for God's sake, it's a huge stadium. We're building a huge stadium across the street, hopefully this status will end, but we're facing obstacles. This project has now been shut down as a result of a lawsuit filed by the Metropolitan Municipality. Hopefully, the law will decide, this status will be made, the Eyestep Stadium will be held. I hope the counter-accessor doesn't fall on the fall line right now because this stadium isn't being built. If it falls, it'll be one thousand down. Congratulations to their fans, their managers, their football players, we're always there for them. However, if this status had been done at the time, there would not have been any problems. Look, how important is this? He would come to the Versayaka Sports Club with $5 million a year in commercial units, but the local government prevented him. Hopefully, how can we help them from now on in Ankara? We support all your projects. We're here to serve. We set out with a sense of service to the people, and we continue. I beg you, local executives, please stop acting with some of the ideas, the wrong ideas, support our projects, don't block them, let's do the stats. Look, we did the EZBAN together. Did we make it worse? Europe's best project is the most successful project of state and local administration, central administration and local administration. We can do many projects like the EZBAN. The public appreciates the election-time activities, so let us all create services for Turkey, for Izmir, before the election, please. I'd like to make a final statement to you as to how we're working together, how we're working together, how we're working together, how you're working together, how you're doing, and how you're doing, and how you're doing, and how you're doing, and how you're doing, and how you're doing, and how you're doing, and how you're doing, and how you're doing, and how you're doing, and how you're doing, and how you're doing, and how you're doing. Our purpose is to serve, we have no other purpose. With such thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0006par0036	Thank you. Congressmans, there will be a change of speech, I'm waiting for Mr. Free Private.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0007par0038	Was there an off-the-book conversation?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0006par0039	Done.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0007par0040	Denizli MP Kazim Arslan will speak off the agenda.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0006par0041	What's it about?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0007par0042	He's going to talk about farmland.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0008par0043	I'll talk at the point where the farmland is wasted.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0006par0044	Okay. The third word outside the agenda belongs to Denizli MP Kazim Arslan, who will address the loss of agricultural areas.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0008par0048	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute all of you with love. Of course, we see in our country that agriculture is wasted at many points, that agriculture is not well-used, that our land is barren with very extreme fertilizers, artificial fertilizers, that our watering system is destroyed because of the fact that it's not really done well, and that in some places our land is actually destroyed by the way that it's opened to industrialization. For him, indeed, it is necessary to have a structure that will allow good production of agricultural products, to be produced in a truly good way without destroying our land, to have a planned agriculture, to have our agriculture done within the program, and to have our farmers well informed in these areas, to have better efficiency than agricultural areas, and to allow our agriculture to be used in a good way. Turkey needs a national agricultural policy for this. There is a need for a good study of where, in what way, what product is to be planted. If this programme is done, Turkey's unchanging agricultural policy needs Turkey to work, no matter what government comes, with the same policy being implemented, with the same application of the same programme, to plant agricultural products and to obtain the agricultural products that we need. Let's see: You know, really, even though Turkey is an agricultural country, we see that we have to take a lot of our products from the wheat to the meat of our farmer, our peasant, and we pay a lot of foreign currency for it. However, instead of paying this exchange to other countries abroad, when we give it to our own farmer, our own country, our own village, our own manufacturer, our own manufacturer, we will be able to better meet our needs and thus reset the imports in agriculture and eliminate them. For him, we need to make sure that this work is in the most efficient way, by actually following a national agricultural policy, and by planning what we need to produce, whatever way we need to produce this policy, by making plans, and by manipulating our village, our producer, by manipulating them, by informing them. Thousands of agricultural engineers from our universities have graduated, they work in different fields, we can't evaluate them. We have vets, we can't assess them. We have to plan, specifically, to program, to train our vets and our agricultural engineers in the region, to assign them to those areas, where, what is to be planted, how to direct our peasants, our farmers, what product is to be acquired more efficiently in that land, and to train these young people. Otherwise, our agricultural engineers are in the middle, our vets are in the middle, they're in a different line of work, we've lost all the effort we've put into our universities for our children and our families. For him, my dear friends, especially the products that our farmers produce... for example, the apple maker in Denizli is in trouble today, the grape maker is in trouble, the milk maker is in trouble. So we have to support our citizens, our poor citizens, in schools, by taking them in the hands of the government within a specific plan. Thank you all, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0009par0055	Thank you, Mr. lion. Congressmans, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0010par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. One of our young people's most important problems is unemployment, unfortunately. In our country, young unemployment is 19.2%; so one of every five young people is unemployed. The government targeted these young unemployed to create resources and started collecting GSS bonuses every month from 2012. Despite all our warnings and objections, the last bag passed through the House, the GSS limited its bonus debt to 25 years of age, disappointing the unemployed and their families. These premiums are too high for unemployed people, they're running interest for those who can't pay, they can't use health services, they can't even get a physical examination. It is neither law nor conscience that the government pays the bill for its failure to fight unemployment. We would like to remind the government again that the GSS system must be dealt with in a comprehensive manner in parliament to address the problems of income testing and premium payments. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0011par0063	Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0012par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Politics is a tool of service; the art of producing services for the people, for the people, and for the right measure; the goal of reaching the horizon of society's common denominators. However, at the time when the coalitions ruled, a policy based entirely on unresolved solutions was in effect. Every approach based on the initiative is closed. The idea, the faith and the initiative have been put in the way of their freedom. That's why society's development dynamics and development frequencies have been silenced. The current approach to politics, along with the EC PARTY, first focused on human focus -- the period of meeting on social values, the quality of expressing the rhythm and excitement of society in common values, solution-oriented politics, or art politics. The final and concrete Ottomangazi Bridge is the magnificent piece that unites both sides. We are grateful to all who have contributed, especially to our President and Prime Minister. On this occasion, the spirit of Osman Gazi, I bless and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0011par0067	Thank you. Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0013par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. 2/8/2013 of the Official Gazette, 12/7/2013, and some Law and Law Code 6495 shall not be transferred to other public institutions and institutions for five years as part of the article (4) of the interim Article 41, which is added to Article 9 of the Law. Because of this clause, no excuses are accepted and no transfers are made. Therefore, many broken families from their spouse, who were forced to live apart from their child, are present, and these families are seriously seeking our help by saying that they are victims. With a new arrangement on this matter, I offer my regards to the removal of these sacrifices.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0014par0074	Thank you. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0015par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, at an opening ceremony, the President ranked a list of his oppositions to domestic policy, adding one of the institutions of the European Union to the list, describing it as "the wrecking crew" and re-emphasizing his stance in the process. On the other hand, the Prime Minister from another branch has taken a stance that reduces our accession relations, refugee issues and visa exemptions to a point where we cannot implement the rescinding agreement if visa exemption cannot be reached. Our accession process with the European Union is imprisoned between the President's individual ambition in domestic policy and the Prime Minister's individual success in this process and his position at the point of self-provement. Together, we watch a process of membership in this period of power, incoherent, unsuccessful, uncertain, and open-ended European Union. By the way, what's important is what is the position of Mr. Minister of the European Union, and we'd like to know if he agrees with the statement of this demolition team.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0016par0081	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0017par0083	Mr. President, the bridge from Denizli Kale Muslugüme neighborhood to make the road link to Muğla has not been fulfilled in 14 years. When will this bridge be built, or have you forgotten your promise? Two: In our Kale district, the search continues. These areas are given to traders as flat-cuts. In most of our neighborhoods, a number of waste water pipes are also installed in the name of infrastructure work. Most of this waste water pipe is being poured out and dangerous near the neighborhood. The dump site in Özlüce neighborhood is next to the elementary school. The wastewater of the dairy is poured into Akçay Creek, which is owned by a company in Bridgehead District. Do you have any precautions about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0018par0086	Thank you. Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0019par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. I also think that important opinions have come to parents of online games that have been on the agenda recently and that our government's authorities have been meticulously working on. The first thing that comes to mind may be bans, but such an attitude can also increase children's interest in the ban, and can lead to negative attitudes toward parents. To protect our children from the dangers of the Internet, we need to communicate with them well and make reasonable and satisfying explanations. The Internet may be useful to save the day, but we're actually blacking out our future as we save the day. Rather than condemning our young to the Internet or television, I think we should strive to spend quality time with them. While trying to protect, let us not build virtual walls between our children and our children, but strive to increase our interest and love, our attention, all of which are in our children. Let us not deprive them of the joy of time spent with parents. On this occasion, our nation celebrates the National Sovereignty and Children's Day (April 23rd), especially as guarantees of our future, our children, and I wish many more holidays.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0020par0092	Thank you. Mr. Reyhanlıoğlu...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0021par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. At around 10:00 p.m. today, our military vehicle was attacked by traitors on the Tunceli-Elazig land road. May God have mercy on our martyrs, and speedy healing for our wounded, and my condolences to all our nation. Those who try to create a crisis in Turkey will never succeed. No one has the right to attempt this nation's presence. It's going all the way to the end, it's going to be gone, and it's going to be wiped out. This nation is strong and capable of doing so. We know that with these attacks, Turkey's powerful Turkey has been targeted by a growing and moving forward. There are people in this country who are uncomfortable with doing good things. But let them know we won't stop. One example of this is the Osmangazi Bridge, which was completed yesterday by the participation of our President and Prime Minister. He's narrowed it down to six minutes between the ferry and the one-hour artillery-Yalova.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0020par0098	Thank you. Mr. Akadun...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0022par0101	Mr. President, I honor, gratefully and proudly remember Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who founded the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under our roof ninety-six years ago. I wish our children a future without harassment, protected and loved by their elders. Second, there were judges in Turkey. I'm celebrating the judges of his apartment. When these cases begin, Turkey cleans its guts. We are prosecutors. I expect the intellectuals who say, "We have been deceived again." I expect them to apologize early and ask. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0023par0104	Thank you. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0024par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. I sincerely celebrate the Turkish nation's Festival of Sovereignty. I ask God's mercy for the martyrs we lost today. The port of Giresun is at the end of the road that connects Iran, east and southeast to the Black Sea as soon as possible. It is the gateway of both the east and the Mediterranean to Europe by sea from the Black Sea. The port of Giresun, which should be used as one of the major trade ports to contribute to the strategic and country's economy, is unfortunately used as a carpeting field, stone and coal warehouse, even as a parking lot. Now, the port of Giresun is built into the service building of the Customs Directorate and the convention center. The legal grounds for building new buildings in Giresun Harbor are being prepared, and the project of this building is being revised as a hotel is very disturbing to the public. The Black Sea Coast Road would be the most important service the Ministry of Customs and Commerce would do at this point to move to another area, giving up construction of the city's historical and environmental fabric, which everyone opposes. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0025par0111	Thank you. Mr. Turkmen...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0026par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking our prime minister: Turkey has been on the side of the United Nations Convention on Child Rights since 1990. According to this contract, individuals under the age of 18 are children. International contracts are above internal law, according to our Constitution. So, do you plan to do a study in the Civil Law about changing relevant substances that lead to the marriage of 18 - year - old children? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0027par0117	Thank you. Mr. Gündüz...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0028par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I ask God to have mercy on our soldiers who are martyrs today, and may their place be in heaven. The Pakistani poet and symbol of the struggle for independence of Pakistan, who organized the people of Pakistan during the years of Turkey's struggle for independence, who supported our nation in difficult times, the Islamic scholar, the confederate and poet Mohammed Iqbali, in the 78th year of his death, remember our gratitude and gratitude. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0029par0124	Thank you. Mr. Green...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0030par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. The recent images of students studying at Karagöz Elementary School in Edremit have been posted on the Internet as they've been told that they're being accepted into the school by the vocal order of the school. Does the government, which forbids the reading of our oath in schools, approve of such an initiative aimed at evacing a secular, free, equal, modern educational system, and raising non-communist individuals? Is it not contrary to the understanding of the secular, free, equal, modern national education system of Edremit? On February 1, 2016, three workers were killed in the construction of the freight elevator. It turns out that the prosecutor who conducted the investigation did not accept the report of the Chamber of Machine Engineers, linked to TMMOB, but instead applied for the knowledge of a textile engineer who joined as an expert. Isn't it the government's responsibility to prevent similar attempts to cover up work killings by law?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0031par0131	Thank you. Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0032par0134	As you know, yesterday the Supreme Court made a very important decision in the Ergenekon case of 275 defendants. As a result of this decision, I need to ask the following questions: Where will 18 people who have lost their lives because of the cause of this case find justice? Will justice mean anything to them now? I wish these mistakes weren't made again. In particular, it shows us what injustice can cost if we think about the events of Turkan Saylan and Ali Tatar, the attempt to make our greatest values worthless in a second and embarrass us from being human. I hope today's academic trial, which has just begun, ends with a fair first-day result, and four academics will be released.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0031par0135	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0033par0138	Mr. President, our esteemed congressman friends, the main duty of the House is to do the legislature, to enforce the law. The Parliament, of course, is taking advantage of the existing Civil Code when it performs this legislation, but I've seen in the short term of my parliamentary process that the biggest obstacle to our future is the Civil Code. The existing Civil Code, which is a product of a coup, seems to be based on the fact that the opposition does not stick to the agenda, but on the fact that at times, by meaningless taunts, there is no law. We have problems to solve. It is clear that we need an effective and rapid internal code to establish the laws needed for the solution to these problems. I think you'll be able to give your support to raise the dignity of the House, to speed up the Parliament's work, to prevent meaningless debates, to meet modern and present needs. I expect all our friends to support me in this matter.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0031par0139	Thank you. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0034par0142	Mr. President, for three years in a row, I congratulate our second league champion, Kastamonuspor, and our technical team, the Mayor and the President, for these achievements, and for the continued success of their success. I wish you all the best, and I wish you all the best, to our Lady Handball Team, who will play the final match with the Spanish team in the European Cup.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0031par0144	Thank you. I'm also going to make a promise to the members of the group who have entered the system. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0035par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. Three of our soldiers were killed in a bomb attack on a military vehicle near Tunceli this morning. I offer God's mercy to our martyrs, and my condolences to his grieving relatives, and to our beloved nation, and I curse these vile attacks. The Turkish nation will further strengthen its unity and unity and repel all betrayals. This determination will grow further in the 96th year of the establishment of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Supreme Court has announced its decision on the case known as Ergenekon (Ergekon) and has concluded that there is no organisation called Ergenekon (Ergekon). Five years after the decision of the Supreme Court, which lasted five years after the court's personal and arbitrary verdict, we learned that there was no organization called Ergenekon (e.g. Ergenekon) where PKK terrorists were heard as secret witnesses, who were accused of being the chief of the General Staff as the leader of the terrorist organization, who had been brought to the ground. On August 5, 2013, Mr. President expressed our belief that the punishments were absolutely essential and that justice would be built in a certain way. After nine years, we need to consider the question of justice. At this point, I find it helpful to recall the words of the past: July 15, 2008, we strive to seek rights for the people, to defend them. If this is the prosecutor's office, yes, I am the prosecutor. July 2008, Turkey is going to a good point. These pains, on the one hand, are labor pains.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0036par0153	I'll give you one more minute. Pick it up, please, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0035par0154	On the other hand, it is also a cleansing of the intestines. At the same time, the words of the Minister of Justice and the mercy of the wolf of the time were unjust to the lamb. Yesterday, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Akdoğan, from his Twitter account, the parallel network of betrayal, poisoned the judicial processes related to the coup allegations and corrupted the cases. So, the conclusion from this statement was true, the case broke the parallel business. One of them came out and found justice. The other one says, "The case was true." And the power spins from its wheel, and it's like a roundabout. As a result, while the whole public process is a conspiracy, let's ask the question: [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The D.A. of this conspiracy is on the run, but what are the political prosecutors doing? With the shadow of all these plagues, we've been deceived! You can't convince the public, you can't escape! Those who walk the same path together and get wet in the same rain must be questioned together in the same plot. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0037par0158	Thank you. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0038par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, with the high-profile lawmakers, the court government and the AKP government overturning the negotiating table and continuing the concept of war on the field, we continue to receive breaking, sorrowing news every day. Again today, the news that three soldiers lost their lives in an attack in Dersim. As the People's Democratic Party, we wish to extend our condolences and condolences to our families, to all our people. We've said over and over again that this war is a dead end, that it doesn't do any good except increase the pain; that it's only lost time in this House with reprimands and demagogues, and that it's lost time, and that we're at the same point today. Unfortunately, with only the police and the soldiers dead, we have to remind you that the deaths mentioned here are in a much more grave dimension. The loss of life in Syria, Iraq, Libya, Yemen, or even the most chaotic countries in the Middle East, has now reached its site. Therefore, the fall of the political institution, the fall of the House, is to activate a rational mind that will stop these deaths at once, and prevent these young saplings from falling into the ground. He faces a great eclipse of intelligence, Parliament, Parliament, and political power. I hope there's a way to stop these deaths as soon as possible.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0039par0166	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0038par0167	On the other hand, Turkey is an embarrassing day for the history of democracy. Freedom of the press is once again on trial in Turkey in front of Erdem Gül and Can Dündar. Again, freedom of thought and expression is being tried in the person of the academics who express their opinion in the person of Esra Munchan, Kıvanç Ersoy, Coral Camcı and Muzaffer Kaya. In such an environment, President Erdogan's statement yesterday pointing to the target of TMMOB is a clear indication of where this country has been scattered in terms of democracy. To the west of Fırat, there is as much Fascism as possible, and to the east of Fırat, there is a heavy war process. All this responsibility is in the hands of the AKP government. I'm saying we find it unacceptable. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0040par0170	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0041par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, we wish God's mercy and patience to three of our soldiers who died in an attack in Tucson today, and we wish to call these terrorist attacks a human crime once again the Republican People's Party. The Ergenekon case is over, and while the Ergenekon case is ongoing, the New Dawn newspaper, which functioned as a publication of the ruling body, shared its happiness with Turkey with its headline, with the title of life for the fighters. New Dawn's administration has not changed, its political orientation has not changed, the ruling party has not changed, its headline today is no such organization. The legal prosecutor of this case is on the run, the political prosecutor is sitting in the palace. We expect an apology from the Justice and Development Party and the political prosecutor of the court as the Republic of Turkey. If the Justice and Development Party is in parliament, if Mr. President does not express his apology at court, there will be a period of time when we will share with you every day our review under the name of the Republican People's Party: what did the AKP members say about the Ergenekon case, what the AKP MP said, what the Prime Minister of the period said, and what the victims in Ergenekon case tried to explain themselves, when the Republican People's Party voiced it, what the AKP Group did, and how the MPs of military members of that group turned their backs on the bench. We're waiting for this apology. Secondly, Mr. President, a letter has been delivered to lawmakers by the head of I.T. There's been an article like this before, where MPs will be given laptops for their work.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0042par0178	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0041par0179	Now, the topic of the coming article is the purchase of an F keyboard laptop. All of the MPs have been using Q keyboards for years. As soon as anyone needs this computer, it's a separate discussion. But if F is going to do this keyboard thing, you know, if somebody's going to do it because they say the national keyboard F is the keyboard, it's not going to be here, it's going to be based on computer lessons in schools, but if the right F is the keyboard, then you have a strategy. But it's not right to supply high-priced F keyboard computers that a firm can't sell over 550 MPs and send letters to lawmakers to distribute them. It's a ridiculous act, a ridiculous act. We also condemn this understanding of parliament's intelligence, which mocks lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0042par0181	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0043par0184	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, I ask God's mercy on three of our fallen soldiers today, and ask for a cure for our wounded. We don't want any nosebleeds in this country, we don't want anyone to lose their lives. We consider it a moral assignment, not just our homework, but everyone's homework. Unfortunately, developments in the region also carried the waves of terrorism to Turkey in the civil conflict in Syria. The PKK's terrorist organisation, which put it on the spot, thought it was opportunity and opportunity, made an actual attempt and lost it. Hopefully, there will be days in Turkey when peace and peace will be fully established and it will prevail. The state, the public authority, is strong enough to ensure peace and well-being for the people, and that will surely happen. On the other hand, the Ergenekon case was concluded in the Supreme Court, and there is a verdict that there is no such criminal organization. In the morning and evening Parliament, the ruling is in the hands of the government and the ruling is in the case of Ergenekon. Those who evaluate this decision should probably reconsider their claims and make a self-criticism on their own contradictions. In Turkey, the law, perhaps some setbacks, sometimes problems and speculations arise, but ultimately progresses on a path that will satisfy the public conscience; it is necessary to find it pleasing.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0044par0188	Complete, please, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0043par0189	Turkey's recent history has been a date of coups since 1960. I suppose, whatever his politics, whatever party he's from, everyone will appreciate this real and objective reality. There was a coup in 1960, March 12, 1971, before that the Madanoğlu junta was established, and then there was a coup in 1980, and then there was a postmodern coup on February 28th. In a country with such a historical background, such initiatives, initiatives, debates, speculations, and from time to time, it is common to see them in court and that political debates are necessary, but it is the law that will ultimately decide, and we, the EC PARTI, have absolute respect for the decision that law has made. So, it has been said here in the past, that it is said that when people, parties, policy owners of Turkey's judicial system, when it comes to the interests of the parties, when it comes to the interests of the law, when it doesn't work for them, it is the judgment of power.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0045par0191	Just like power does.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0046par0192	Mr. Bostanci is going to use one last minute to apologize! We're waiting for an apology from the AKP Group.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0047par0193	Complete, please, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0048par0194	...referencing the critique basically reveals how incoherent this retort is.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0049par0195	The inconsistency is in power, it's inverted!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0048par0196	The decision of the judiciary is the capacity to satisfy the public conscience, and we respect it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0050par0198	Thank you. We, the Court, ask for God's mercy on our martyrs and offer our condolences and patience to their relatives. Congressmans, I'm going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There is a review of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I will have it read and briefed. Point: 83924060-120. 03/21530 Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation from the Ukrainian Parliament's National Security and Defence Committee made an official visit to our country on April 25-27, 2016, according to the decision dated 08/04/2016 by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Council of Ministers. The visit of the delegation to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey is not a water-rich country, as claimed. This requires more sensitivity to water, more careful use of water resources. In order to determine the measures needed to be taken by the identification of water resources and effective management and protection methods in our country, I would like to ask that the Constitution be opened under the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98, and the Council of the Turkish Assembly. 05.12.2011 [[Manisa]] 2) Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 3) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Sakarya]] 12) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] 13) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] 19) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] It is inevitable that the 21st century will be a century in which global policies and strategies will increase over water in the world. This increases the importance of hydropolitical work and evaluations. The world's amount of water is 1.4 billion cubic kilometers, 25 percent of which is fresh water. The fact that 90 percent of such few fresh water sources are in the Arctic and underground increases the importance of water. The average water consumption per capita in the world is around 800 cubic metres per year, while 1.4 billion people lack sufficient drinking water. 2.6 billion people use unsolicited water from treatment facilities. Each year, nearly 7 million people die from diseases that result from failure to reach clear water, such as diesel, cholera, diarrhea, and one child dies because it lacks clean drinking water every 30 seconds. By 2025, an estimated two thirds of the world's population would be deprived of clean and drinkable water. Our country is divided into 25 large basins of water supply, blistering and drainage. This available water is located in 53 billion cubic metres of our potential -- 28.5 per cent -- in the Tigris and Fırat basins. Thus, many parts of our country show lack of water resources. Our usable water potential is 112 billion cubic metres, our annual consumption of water is 44 billion cubic meters. According to international standards, countries facing water shortages are described as countries that are between 1,000 cubic metres and 2,000 cubic metres per year per person. The amount of available water per capita in our country is 1,519 cubic metres. By 2030, our population is estimated to reach 100 million. In this case, the amount of available water per person will drop to 1,120 cubic metres, and Turkey will be in the low-water class of countries. Also, in 2025, Turkey is expected to reduce rain by 25 per cent. The way this gloomy and evil painting is removed is that governments are putting on weights for water investments, the best use of existing water, the increase of drinking and drinking water, ensures that it is carried in healthy conditions. 12 per cent of the usable water in our country is used in industry as 15 per cent as drinking water, while 73% are used in agricultural irrigation. In our country, about 17 per cent of agricultural irrigation is pressurized (raining, dripping) irrigation. Using pressurized irrigation instead of classic irrigation means saving 20 to 30 percent water. It needs to be used beyond the limits of our water resources, and the effects of climate change are causing water supply reductions. As a result of global warming, the need for agricultural water will increase as a result of a decrease in annual currents in the stream basins, and this decrease will have a negative impact on agricultural production. In addition to the expansion of dry and semi-dry areas, the annual average temperature will increase desertification, salting, and erosion. The seasonal snow and snow cover will reduce the area, and the snow - covered period will be shorter. The change in the flow time and volume from the snow melt will have a negative impact on water sources. Our country's water supply management policy cannot respond rationally to demands. There are 14 different institutions in our country responsible for water management. The water management must quickly be removed from its multi-headed, multi-party and lack of coordination structure under one umbrella. To ensure rational and effective use of water, a water law in accordance with the EU Water Framework Direction must be passed, but Turkey's interests are not ignored. Our country's water supply is under pressure from rapid population growth and industrial development, increasing agricultural production and pollution. As in most countries today, water problems in Turkey are based on governance, policy and investment shortcomings. The necessary policy change must be taken into consideration that there will be no future without water. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I move that the Constitution be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the National Assembly of Turkey's 101st Articles of the Constitution, 98, and 105, to determine the measures to be taken, including the legal arrangements to be made. [[Manisa]] 2) Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 3) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] [[Kayseri]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Sakarya]] [[Aydın]] 14) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Inconceived]] 20) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] Watering for high efficiency and quality products is the most important factor, and with accurate and adequate irrigation, efficiency can be increased by 2.5fold. In particular, agricultural irrigation has become extremely important in recent years because of the increasing drought. Instead of increasing agricultural land in the present century and around the world, the idea of buying more and more products in the unit area has become increasingly settled. In order to produce more products in the unit area, the development and rational use of water resources are of great importance. Our water supply is dwindling, our agricultural water requirements are increasing, as a result of the use of our water resources outside the limits and the impact of climate changes. The farmland in Turkey is 21.4 million hectares, leaving 5 million hectares of water scarce every year. Eight and a half million hectares of planted and obelisks can be diluted, but are opened to water 5.4 million hectares. In other words, watery agriculture is produced in 25 per cent of Turkey's total crop and obelisks. 4 million hectares of the water-watered land in our country are watered by water irrigation, which is 25-35 per cent water efficiency, and 424,000 hectares are watered by dripping water, which is 90-98 per cent. Using the dripping watering method will save money in irrigation. Since the DSI General Directorate's investment budget has not increased rates for the ministry budget and GDP for years, irrigation investments cannot be completed. Watering investments in the GAP, which includes 52 per cent of the total watering sites, are moving very slowly due to lack of funding. The situation is the same in our country's second-largest irrigation project, the Iconian Plain Watering Project. Water law is required to ensure rational and effective use of water. The average irrigation rate in DSI irrigation for many years is 65 percent. Technically, the irrigation rate, which should be 50 to 60 percent, is 45 percent. This means that about half of the watering sites are watered, but they can't use water. When we look at the change of the total irrigation rate across Turkey, it seems that in the last decade, irrigation rates have not been developed, and irrigation rates have been growing very limited. One of the main reasons for watering investments remains is that the irrigation fields and the land are fragmented in areas that open to watering. The amount of land that can be collected in our country is 14 million hectares, and the amount of land that has been collected since 1960 is 1.5 million hectares. In watering areas, the bottom water level has increased due to unconscious irrigation, so barrenity is the biggest problem. The growing demand for food, combined with threats such as global warming, depends on sustainable governance of land and water resources by increasing efficiency in agricultural activities to ensure food security for the country's population. In order to ensure sustainability under these resources, efficient irrigation investments must be increased, efficient irrigation systems are established in areas that are opened to watering and open, the best possible storage of surface and subterranean waters, the prevention of waste of land and water resources and increased awareness of producers and public awareness of these issues, the absence of the use of agricultural land, the prevention of erosion and barrenness. The selection of the modern irrigation system and management in accordance with the properties of the land and water resources we have and the selection of the plant pattern, and its projecting and its technique will allow our natural resources to be transferred to the next generation in the best possible way and to be built into sustainable agricultural production. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to prevent a disaster from being caused by the burning waste from the mines, the problems caused by air pollution, and the use of the soma thermal plant A, which is in operation, but can be avoided by a disaster, including legal regulations, the 98th of the Constitution, under which Articles 104 and 105 of the Turkish Parliament's Infrastructure will be opened. [[Manisa]] 2) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 3) Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 4 Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Sakarya]] [[Aydın]] 15) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 17) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Inconceived]] 21) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] According to the World Health Organization's September 2013 Report, air pollution is the most important trigger for lung cancer after smoking. The International Institute for Cancer Research (IARC), which works under the World Health Organization, categorizes air pollution in terms of substances that cause cancer in the same category as tobacco smoke, UV radiation and plutonium. According to IARC, 223,000 people worldwide lose their lives every year due to air pollution. The coal burned at Soma Termic Plant is polluting the air because it does not have a chimney gas filter. The project for the soma thermal plant chimney gas (1-6) was introduced to the public investment programme in 1996, but so far the project has not been launched. Also, the gases from the coal mines in Soma are fueled by air pollution. This dirty air spreads to the downtown of Manisa, and even to the district of Aliaka, Izmir. In Soma, the number of air pollution and cancer, bronchitis and asthmatic patients exceed world standards. Most newborns in Soma suffer from asthma and bronchitis. In 2013 alone at Soma State Hospital, 105000 residents received 650,000 clinics, 150,000 emergency examinations. According to Soma 209 ug/m3 sulfur dioxide averages 3rd between 152 stations and 6 ug/m3 sulfur dioxide average, according to the December 2014 Air Quality Bulletin of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. In January 2015, Soma 2.017 ranked 2nd with the average sulfur dioxide, while Manisa ranked 104, with an average of 8 sulfur dioxide. In March 2015, Soma was ranked 3rd and 129th with an average of 128 sulfur dioxide. Minister of Environment and Urbanism İdris Gulluce answered the motion on 3 March 2014 for air pollution in Soma, consisting of 28/12/2011 dates and Soma Termic Plant (A) and (B) plants from the Ministry of Privatisation. The (A) power plant has expired, but it is active. Electrofiltre rehabilitation of units must be performed if the Soma (A) plant is decided to continue operating. No unit in the Soma (B) plant has a chimney gas sulfur treatment plant. In a letter to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the Soma Termik Plant has completed the tender and contract phases for the electrofiltre rehabilitation of the third and fourth units, with the construction of a chimney gas sulfur treatment plant. However, the Ministry of Development did not allow funding for the Soma Termic Plant in the EUAS Investment Programme for the Baca gas sulfur treatment plant." He replied: "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In this regard, the first has not been made any progress, despite the fact that we have raised pollution from Soma Termic Operator (TBMM) in the General Assembly of the Plan and Budget Commission in 2009, energy and resources, the Ministry of Environment and Forestry, the Ministry of Forestry and Water and Environment and Urbanization budgets, and the first, 13/10/2009, to the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, five of Energy and Natural Resources, the Minister of Environment and Urbanism has not made any progress. Air pollution in Soma poses serious problems with human health. It is also inevitable that the soma thermal plant (A) unit, which has expired, but is still active, will cause a new disaster. A parliamentary study should be opened to prevent a disaster from being found at the Soma Termic Plant (A) unit, which may result from lack of a sulfur treatment plant and prevent air pollution from burning waste from the mines, solve problems caused by air pollution and run out of use, but can result from an active Soma thermal plant (A) unit. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two other papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Albania's Parliament and the European Security and Co-operation Organization (OSCE) in Albania (OSCE) and the United Nations women's offices will organise the Annual Regional Conference in Tirana, Albania's capital, from 26 April to 28 April 2016. The issue of accession to the conference is submitted to the General Assembly's approval under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey No. 3620, dated 28/3/1990. I submit the thesis to your votes.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0051par0393	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit01spe0050par0394	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0050par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision-making vote for Turkey's Grand National Assembly was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Parliamentary Women's Global Summit (Women in Parliaments Global Forum) will be held in Amman, Jordan's capital, on May 4, 5th 2016, under the Parliamentary Assembly of the Jordan and the Organisation for Economic Development and Co-operation. The issue of accession to the conference is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet at a meeting of 22/04/2016 Friday (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On March 2, 2016, Diyarbakır MP Deputy Chair Çağlar Demirel and Diyarbakır MP Deputy Chair İdris Bauken (number 1286 ranked 1286) were recommended to end the practices violating freedom of press freedom and freedom of expression and to present them in the same edition of the parliamentary research proposal given to the Grand National Assembly to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. The first speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party's group proposal will be Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0052par0026	Mr. President, before the press is released, we're actually talking about the computers that just came up about the position of this House...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0050par0027	Mr. Bilgen, I'm going to reboot your time. Congressmans, there's a buzzing in the hall, I can't hear the speaker. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen. I've rebooted your time.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0053par0030	I'd like to give you a little reminder about the computer and the F keyboard that just came up. A similar text earlier came about the Constitution. It is said that this parliament will make a new constitution, which is sent to MPs by the Speaker of Parliament, under which it says: "We will also give you one computer for this occasion. This is the link between the constitutional way of building and the will of the MP." I've been a journalist for 30 years and I use Q keyboards. In yesterday's article, we received an F keyboard. It says, "We will take it." Answer if you don't want to. Now, even in what keyboard decision we can't write, we can't get out of this by blaming the group, the parties, how democratic this House is, or whatever. Yes, there's the Constitution of the coup era, there's the Civil Code, there's serious problems in the Civil Code, but now there are two keyboards. Instead of asking, which of the two keyboards would you prefer, we will get an F keyboard, take it or leave it. With a style that says, "Take it or leave it." I think it is not enough for Parliament to democratize its internal functioning. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we bring you a proposal, feeling the need for an investigation. There are 32 journalists in Turkey's prisons, many arrested and convicted. You're saying they're not under arrest for journalism. Because they're interested in other business, here are the terrorists, the prisoners, for reasons such as attempted coup. We say: "These are journalists." Now, what should be done in a reasonable, reasonable environment? Let's set up a commission, have an investigation, prove that they're not journalists, because the representation rate on the commission is, you know, in favor of the ruling party. When Turkish diplomats, Turkish politicians go to an international arena, when the President goes to the United States, let's not let this talk about journalists become clear, because if there is no arrested, convicted journalist, it will undermine Turkey's reputation, it will put Turkey in a difficult position, and this will not be on the agenda at all. In a moment, you will vote that this matter should not be investigated, and this issue will again, perhaps later, be off the agenda of the Assembly, the General Assembly, today. Thomas Jefferson says that in a country, if the government is afraid of the people, there is freedom there, but if the people fear the government, there is tyranny there. For many years, journalists in Turkey have faced enormous difficulties because of different laws, which governments have passed in their favour. One of these laws -- I'd like to take your attention to it -- is the Ataturk Protection Act. Hundreds of journalists have been tried in this country for protecting Ataturk. Of course, in whose time did the Law on Protection of Ataturk (Ataturk) come out? I think the quick answer to that answer would be in the form of APP, but it's not; it's not; the law was passed in 1951, by Menderes, by the Democratic Party. It's interesting that the way he's being removed is also for a stubbornness, which means that he's in a recession with the CHP, against the Inöneu, in his own way, Menderes is trying to strengthen his hand by issuing the Law on the Protection of Ataturk, and for the next sixty-five years, dozens of journalists in this country have to pay the price by being tried and working overtime in front of the court, in front of the police station. Now, if you compare the number of victims related to the Ataturk Law on Protection (Ataturk) to the number of journalists who have been tried for insulting the President in just the past few months, the figure has almost reached the number of people who have been tried in sixty-five years due to the Ataturk Way Protection Act. So when you come from 1951 to 2016, nothing really changes. There have been 99 investigations involving Özgür Gündem daily alone in 2016, in those three or three and a half months. A lawsuit was filed against 51 of them, and soon the newspaper was fined 355,000 liras. Of course, it's not easy to come clean by praising ourselves, it's concrete, but with journalists, the danger of the press, the threat is not only pressure against opposition journalists, but it's the opposite. I mean, the feed newspapers, some of the hit men, and some of the reporters, they're getting into interesting roles for power. There's a lot of examples of this, but there's a very recent newspaper headline, and I'd like to bring it to your attention because it's an interesting example of how journalists don't actually help the authorities. Regarding the Karaman case, you know, a newspaper made a headline, said: "Pedophilia of the revolutionary tradition." Now, you might want to do a story on pedophilia. It's already on the table. Now, in Karaman, who's been sentenced to five hundred and eight years, in front of the governor, next to the governor of national education, when he's been taking pictures with the Ensar Foundation for decades, he's been taking these poses because he's come from revolutionary tradition, he's been brought into these missions, we all know that, but the newspaper prefers to pass this on to his headline. But this isn't just about a newspaper, not a journalist. There are journalists of every era; in February 28th, there were some journalists who insulted the Welfare representatives, complimented them on the power of that period, as well as their ability, and now, you know, they're in the top positions of power, and they're consulting at the top points. I mean, nothing's really changed for them. Again, they side with the strong, arguing that opposition should be crushed, digested. So, rather than discussing their place here, I think we have to discuss where we stand. Dear lawmakers, the 96th year of the House will be celebrated tomorrow, but in fact, if you take the first Ottoman Mebusan Assembly -- which is the basis of 1876, which is the first Ottoman Parliament -- started in 1877, we are entering the 140th year, along with the cuts. But it's one of the most important reasons for the House's reputation, for the country to act with justice, to act with insight and justice in the face of the issues facing the region as it builds its agenda. Now, of course, there are significant developments in our environment. For example, about Karabakh, about the painting that happened, many MPs who stood on the stand in this assembly shared their feelings. Of course, in Karabakh -- whether Azerbakir or Armenian -- we want no conflict, no one to die. Now, there are two states about Karabagan, one of Azerbaijan, one of Armenia, but for some reason, Crimean has no need to consider the fact that the Tatar National Assembly has been officially dissolved. One country is over, there is no more the Crimean Tatar Autonomous Zone, and the assembly was completely annulled a few days ago. Now, there's an issue of Karabagan, Azerbaijan, but could it be worth anything that a Parliament that never really cares about the fact that the Crimean Tatar National Assembly is going to disappear, that it's going to come back and talk about other, very ambitious, very big words? I mean, it's just that, of course, there's a lot going on with geography, not about rightness, but there's also a lot going on with historical memory. There was an argument here yesterday about Armenian lawmakers, and in this parliament, I would like to bring to your attention the valued MPs, especially Enver, Cemal Pashas, can be defended from the bench. I'm surprised, Enver, about the Cemal Pashas... but don't we have a political responsibility, of course, to refer history to scientists, but to teach our children the right date, about textbooks or something? Enver, Cemal Pashas, if we're not mistaken, if the date we're reading is not wrong, aren't they the ones who raided Babiali in 1913, executed the Cadet Nazi, who relieved the Prime Minister of duty? Is there a clear plea of coup in this House? If this Parliament normalizes the coup defense, if it becomes common because of what it has done to the Armenians, it's worth talking about journalists, academics, opponents, what has been done to the opposition, and it doesn't make much sense. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0054par0047	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. The first speaker against the People's Democratic Party's group proposal is İstanbul MP Hurşit Yıldırım.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0055par0050	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The world is in a time of terror. Terror happens one day in 9/11, one day in Washington, one day in the Pentagon, one day in Paris, one day in Pakistan, and one day in Turkey. Of course, because our country is in an important place in this time of terror, this is the age of terror. Every day we have new martyrs, and today we have martyrs. We are not only the names of our martyrs... our martyrs are also the martyrs of Malazzirt, our martyrs are also the martyrs of Çanakkale, the martyrs of Dumlupınar, the martyrs of Cyprus, the martyrs of the southeast. Our martyrs are the martyrs who have opened their mouth and waited for them, as Akif Uhh said. Our martyrs are Muhammad, Mustafa, Mehmet, our martyrs are the Black Fatmas, the Ayşes, the Nene Hatuns. We cry out to the end: The martyrs shall not die, nor shall the land be divided! Friends, there is no freer institution in Turkey than the press. The early morning riser insults this country's elected President, the AK PARTY staff, irreverently every day, but every day. Freedom of the press doesn't mean unlimited rights. Just as no group of professionals have the freedom to commit crimes, without the freedom to commit crimes, without the freedom of a carpenter, a lawyer, a group of doctors, the freedom of the press to commit crimes. The survival of the state and the nation and the safety of our citizens' lives and property above all else. The opposition says that from time to time, the necessary intelligence has not been received in terrorist cases. Why, though, do not those who reveal an activity of an intelligence agency, the National Intelligence Agency, make the same statement? Friends, this case is not an ordinary case. There's no chicken theft here. This is a case of espionage. If there are weapons and people are dying all the time, the ideological actions that cause terrorism and the statements and claims of those who support its terrorism cannot be called freedom of the press. If it's a matter of safety and human life terror, there's no talking about safety and the future of the state, there's no talking about freedom of the press. Those who claim that there is no freedom of the press should also know that despite the opposition's no vote, the EC PARTY is the one who gives the Constitutional Court the right to an individual application. The prisoner is the AK PARTY (AK PARTI) who shortens the length of his imprisonment by calling the trials "insinsinuated." The Constitutional Court's decision is a decision on whether or not there is a violation of rights, or it is not a decision on acquittal or conviction. Congressmans, you all know that while it is a crime to influence the fair trial under the 138th Amendment of our Constitution, some lawmakers have made statements about these matters on this stand, on the press, and in different places, before the court makes a decision in the case of Erdem Gül. You all know that some of our fellow lawmakers can influence this case, let alone influence the trial, enough to enter the courtroom, enough to influence the court. Almost everyone's talking and talking in the case of Erdem Gül and Can Dündar. As for Mr. President, the President elected by the public has made a statement after the Constitutional Court has made its decision, which means the verdict has made a statement after the execution. We also can't understand that those who influence the court, those who influence the court's decision, ignore it. Friends, it is clear that the act of terror organization propaganda in Article 7 of Anti-Terror Law 3713 regarding freedom of the press has been staged as a crime. Can Dündar and Erdem Gül have been arrested as part of a spy operation, not as part of journalism. It is interpreted as the rule of law when such measures are taken in Western countries. For example, in 2010, the arrest of Julian Assange, who published documents that were leaked by a U.S. soldier, was decided to arrest him, you all know. Right now, he can't get his head out of the Ecuadorian consulate. In the fight against terrorist activities, the State of Emergency was declared not only in the United States, but also in France, in the Charlie Hebdo attack, in the Paris attack, in recent Belgian attacks. Friends, the issue is neither freedom of the press nor journalists under arrest, the issue is the attempt to prevent the success of the movement represented by the EC PARTI (AK) and Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and it is the longing of the old Turkey with old habits. Now it's past the time to make opposition with fantastic sentences; what is now valid is real politics, and I say that the real policy has its AK PARTI and its staff at the head of real politics. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0056par0060	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0057par0061	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0058par0062	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0059par0063	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0060par0064	All of a sudden, when I looked up, I saw three vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0059par0065	First, Mr. Special... Mr. President... said. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0060par0067	Mr. Special, let me hear you out.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0061par0068	Mr. President, during his speech, Republican People's Party MPs were in the courtroom at Erdem Gül and Can Dündar's trial, he said it was an attempt to influence the judiciary. I'd like an answer on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0060par0069	Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0061par0074	Mr. President, we're actually discussing a group proposal from the People's Democratic Party here today. The ruling party's statement on both this issue and the motion must say something concrete about the criticism of both journalists and scientists at Turkey's ruling party, but instead of using the ten-minute deadline given to our friend here on the stand, a significant part of its speech has entered the President's defence -- which should be in an impartial position -- that AKP has created in the country -- and will not be able to open up other areas of pressure, suppressive, press freedom, personal rights and freedom that will narrow it down, and will not be able to say that there is no understanding of a government that has been a little bit more spread over the past day. In the area of his own polemics, in fact, the members of the group next to him, Erdem Gül and Can Dündar, attended the positive atmosphere in the parliament on the day of their release. He said that that's true. But unfortunately in the country -- I've said two times and two times before -- that's five. And you should also know that the MPs watch the trial. This is not to influence the court, but to bear witness to the outcome of justice, but also to remember that you have MPs who have been following the trial in Karaman, so don't have a problem with consistency.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0060par0076	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0062par0077	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0063par0078	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0064par0079	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0065par0080	I'll promise you all. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0066par0082	Mr. President, we've asked for it before.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0067par0083	Mr. Erkan asked me before, but...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0068par0084	Yeah, well, we've asked for it before.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0069par0085	Okay, fine. Since he spoke directly to your group, I thought I'd come to you after I finished that chapter. So, that's what I did. Well, let's hear it for you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0070par0088	If you'd like me to state my position, then you can promise Mr. Erkan, sir, if you find it appropriate. Mr. Speaker, in his speech on the stand, he made it clear that the political delegation, which evolved to despotic, oppressive, fascism, suspended press freedom, entrusted its views to the palace, could be seen by his nodding of his head.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0071par0090	And it's true.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0070par0091	In this frame, I requested a word based on 69.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0072par0092	Okay. I'll listen to Mr. Akçay, and then I'll do your work, Mr. Bostanci. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0073par0095	Mr. President, the speaker who spoke on behalf of the HDP has just been addressed to the debate over yesterday's HDP group proposal, on this stand, in the form of the coupgers, such as Enver and Cemal Pasha.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0072par0096	Here you go, Mr. Akçay, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0073par0098	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We can review all the transcripts of yesterday's debates here. Dear friends, when we evaluate or criticize a subject, we must not keep two things out of sight, two ways. First of all, we need to build a good cause and effect relationship on that. And you have to keep it in context. There was absolutely no assessment of the impacts in yesterday's debate, and the impact was not subject to a group proposal. In 1915, 33 Armenian MPs serving at the Ottoman Parliament-i Mebusan have been killed for various reasons, lost their lives, and their graves are not found. So it is our conscience that some of the MPs there are armed day cones, like Pastrmaciyan at night, who defected to Russia and then slaughtered 100,000 people in Anatolia, and that a person like Pastrmaciyan should be blessed, but that people like Enver, Talat, Cemal Pasha should also be cursed. When we assess the causal relationship and the context of the issue, we also evaluate some of the blows and coup attempts in the Ottoman era. Today, we look at that day and we oppose it, and it's not the defense of coups and coups. But they also have to admit that with his sin... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...people who have cost history and have also done a national defense.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0074par0103	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0073par0104	Talat Pasha, Cemal Pasha, and Cemal Pasha, who attacked the mobsters who were immigrated and replaced by Armenian caravans.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0074par0105	Mr. Akçay, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0073par0106	I'm finishing my sentence.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0074par0107	Please...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0075par0108	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0073par0109	...he fought against the gangs. Cemal Pasha has identified the gangs that attacked the Armenians, he has punished them, but he has been martyred in Tbilisi, Talat Pasha has been martyred in Berlin, and I remember these martyrs with mercy. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0076par0111	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0077par0112	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0076par0113	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0077par0114	In the AKPlı orator talk, the MPs who followed the trial of Can Dündar and Erdem Gül have also been following the case, meaning our group, because our MPs have also followed the case...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0076par0115	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0077par0116	And not only did we follow him today, but also today, and now our academics are there, our MPs are following him; they follow every court that is tried for his opinion; it doesn't mean to influence the court there. There's a tease on our group about it, and we want a say in it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0076par0117	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0077par0118	Mr. Ayhan will speak.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0076par0119	Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0078par0121	Dear MPs, we're just saying, "Is there pressure on the press?" We're just saying, "Is there any pressure on the press?" But if you take a position that condemns lawmakers and even condemns what they need to do, you're going to have to make a new arrangement on where and how the MP is going to do his job. In the past, human rights commissions in this country have gone to police stations, and now, when they go to police stations, they're in a position to make it difficult for the police to do their duty? Is that even possible? So this is actually the psychology of guilt, which is that you don't really trust the judiciary, and when a member of parliament comes to see it, it's influenced and it makes the decision according to it. It's an expression of the press report, but look at our card, so we've passed the press organizations in Turkey, or something like that, and it's one of the world's most respected, most serious organizations, like one of the world's most respected, for example, in its latest report, it's reflected the decline of freedom of the press in France, so it's also reflected in the report, and so it's a desire to hit by Turkey, and so on and so on and so on and so forth, it's not one of the most respected organizations in the world. Last year, Turkey was ranked 149, and now it has fallen to 151. Turkey is watching 180 countries; Russia stands close to us, behind Uganda, Tanzania and Kenya. So, I'm afraid we can't afford to change this picture, so we have to face that fact. They defended the fighters for a party. I didn't say anything; I specifically said that because of their approach to Armenians, they shouldn't be given an example, and I'm still in the same place. I don't think this Parliament should defend those who lead the Ottomans into war, in German love, who oppose the War of Salvation, who threaten to send letters to those who lead the War of Salvation. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0079par0126	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0080par0128	I told you my reason, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0079par0129	I'm sorry. For a second there, I thought you were talking. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0080par0133	Mr. President, as I listened to Mr. Free Bey, I felt like I was listening to the chorus part of a classic CHP song, which evolved from the despotic, the printing, the fascism. These words stand as ammunition in the distribution and are put into circulation when it comes to it. Well, given what they're worth, Mr. Free will surely know, there are two important examples of fascism: Germany and Italy. It's the name of the regime in which countries enter into the late world colonialist atlass; Turkey doesn't have that position, first of all, if you look at the basics. But Mr. Ozgur, I think he wants to use fascism as a slightly offensive concept, which is not in Turkey's best interest. When you think about the concepts of despotics, etc., and the concepts of fascism, you have to have a regime: there's someone at first, everyone obeys him, there's no choice, there's nothing else, everyone's in complete obedience, they're in order. Oh, yeah? It's not.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0081par0135	You are in the party, thank God!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0080par0136	There have been many elections in Turkey. Powers come by choice, and again, the public, by choice, can call back those powers, my friends. Everyone is running for office on equal terms, and I don't think it's a good idea, and it's not a very useful approach in multiple elections, looking at the outcome of the elections, to get some concepts from the ammunition in the distribution into circulation. In the case of Erdem Gül and Can Dündar, when they were released, we said: Do we wish them to be spies? Of course not. Two: We'd appreciate it if the court appreciated the release of their case. That's what we're saying. So, the law made a decision, and we expressed our views in that frame. That is what we say and what we say. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0082par0142	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0083par0144	In his speech, Mr. Bostanci claimed that I was taunting them -- which was a strong criticism, that he had overstepped the limits of bullying -- he claimed that my criticism was based on a prejudicial and that instead of criticizing them, we were using a prepared ammunition that was available, that our thesis was not true, and that we were critical of them in a standard way. It's an obvious tease, I want to answer that.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0084par0145	That's a lot of interpretation, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0083par0146	He also referred to me by twisting the statements I used about Can Dündar and Erdem Gül's decision.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0085par0147	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0083par0148	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0085par0149	Let's not cause any more bullying, please.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0083par0151	Mr. President, I don't intend to pick on you again, but let's talk about this once: the state of the AKP is clear. What I said was in the motion given to your orator, who does not respond to criticism about freedom of the press, personal rights and freedoms. As for the spy thing, I have to make it clear that it wasn't last semester. There was a similar case -- you think he's a conspiracy now, and you're accusing him of parallels -- a military espionage case. The personal virtues of this country's military people were covered with prostitution, professional honors, spy stains. We followed that case step by step from September 12, 2012. I've been on the stand 17 times about that case -- we'll read it from the courts -- and I'm telling you, your parallels from Facebook, from a civil servant in Balıkesir's Dursunlu, in the Navy -- gave them to your pool. So, together, there's a picture of him in 12 newspapers: one woman, one captain. In the village, because it was about espionage and prostitution, their daughter, the officer who worked here, got it all wrong. Her father left the village, she slit her wrists, she was in the hospital for three months, a bear in intensive care. While we were trying to talk about it here, while I was yelling, they took a picture of it from Facebook, something like that. This is the plot, and this is it. From there was the Yalçın Akdoğan. I was talking about the privacy of private life, where he was screaming, "Are you going to hide what God knows from your servant?" I was saying that the purity of innocence, he was saying, there's no smoke without fire. Your 12 newspapers were throwing it away, and something else came up today. I've been watching that case, and I've been watching this case. You were blind on that day, and you believed in what was said, and today you are blind, and you believe in what is said. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0086par0156	Thank you. Peoples' Democratic Party will be the last speaker in favour of the group's proposal, İstanbul MP Mehmet Bacheloroğlu. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0087par0163	Mr. President, the most important argument today is the keyboard. Sorry, it's not a keyboard, it's a keyboard. Because it's local and national. Because it's local and national, friends, we have to comply. I have another proposal for domestic and nationality. It's despotism, fascism, authorism, Mr. Group Vice President, not very domestic and national, it's supposed to mean nefarious. It's local and national. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is really an example of how a delegation from curfews, from the inside of the bans, from the closing of the party, will embrace the bans. In the same way, I find it amazing and exemplary that a delegation with a 50 per cent vote fears the speech of the opposition and the opposition. Dear lawmakers, the fact that journalists were arrested in Turkey in 2016, that academics were imprisoned for expressing their opinions is not understandable. The closure of newspapers, the seizure of newspapers, the seizure of televisions, the destruction of tools of freedom of thought and expression, the removal, the silence, that's not understandable. A proposal issued by HDP has mentioned a television, İMC television. A prosecutor comes out, writes to RTÜK, writes somewhere, and it is prevented from broadcasting or broadcasting its broadcast in Turkey -- no trial, no trial, no verdict. That's not acceptable. There are 20 journalists under arrest, they are arrested; we are arguing whether they are journalists or not. You say, they are being tried for other things, not journalism activities. You say, they are not believable. Dear MPs, my dear friends, without freedom of thought and expression, there is nothing in a country, there is no beauty; there is no poetry, there is no art, there is no discovery, there is no common good, there is no finding, there is no such thing; there is no RD, there is no science, there is no science. For him, freedom of thought and expression is essential. Without freedom of thought and expression, you can't talk about democracy, you can't talk about anything, we're doing good things. You can't say, dear friends, you can't do politics. Therefore, the constitutions, our Constitution, and the constitutions of many democratic countries of the world have granted absolute immunity to policymakers, parliament, lawmakers -- on the issue of immunity. Now, with this coming constitutional proposal, with this constitutional amendment proposal, you're actually creating a serious problem and debate about it, all of a sudden. My dear friends, I'm afraid that anyone who opens his mouth will be branded terror, terrorist, and silenced. It's nothing new in this country. In the past -- as you say, former Turkey -- there were demands about freedoms in the old Turkey, about democracy, about rights, constantly passing through difficult times, the country is threatened; there is a threat of division, there is a threat of irony, there is this, there is this. Now you're angry. You're no different from them. It was the same thing. On this stand, the MPs would have issued rights and demands of freedom. The ruling owners of the period would have gone out. Yes, you're right, political parties shouldn't be closed. There's no democracy in a country where political parties are closed. But there's a danger of division. I'm afraid you're doing the same thing. But underneath all these problems, the problems that were then threatened were fundamentally the lack of freedom of thought and expression, the lack of democracy. Since that day was treated like this, many people, including you, have paid a price in this country and continue to pay. In some places, the price was too heavy, thousands of people went away, 40,000 people died -- we don't know very much -- this terror that started in 1984, 40,000 people died because of this conflict, and underneath them, basically, there was a lack of freedom of thought and expression, there was a lack of democracy. Yes, journalists, academics, those who express their opinion are arrested -- we say they're being arrested, they're being tried, it's something else -- they're being tried without arrest. They can't escape, they can't black out the evidence. It's treated like revenge. These are not acceptable things, let's investigate them, of course. Why is this happening, what measures do we take to prevent this from happening? It doesn't matter if the HDP gives the motion, the AKP gives it, the CHP gives it, the MPP gives it. Let's discuss this here, that's what they say. Look, my dear friends, there are some serious concerns about judgment. Just look at this Sledgehammer, Ergenekon, military espionage case, the decisions made five years ago, ten years ago. How were these received, how did the ruling party judge them, what did the ruling newspaper, newspaper columnists, television commentators say about them? Look at one of your newspapers, and look at that headline five years, six years, or three years ago: 18 people were sentenced to life in prison for the coup. You're looking at it today. You're looking at it today. My dear friends, five years have passed and three years have passed.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0088par0174	So, what really happened, Mr. Bachelor?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0087par0175	Look, there's a very serious problem with judgment. This is where the salt smells. Nothing can be done in a country with such distrust of judgment, and we can't really talk about thought and expression and freedom. Let alone the problems in the judiciary, the decisions made by the judiciary, not by the management, my dear friends, are doing as they please. Look, let me tell you about a press case, SECA Balıkesir. SECA Balıkesir is being handed over to a press boss. I'm not saying his name. The court, the local court, the administration court, the district administration court that objects to it, the State Court, goes through all sides, and it's being cancelled. But each time, my dear friends, they're giving this place, this nation's place, to this press boss, by wandering around in circles, making other decisions. So as there's a problem with the judiciary, there's a problem with implementing judicial decisions; that's what happened in the past. You say new Turkey, no new Turkey or anything like that. You've hugged all the vehicles of the old Turkey. You used to be a victim, now you're victimizing my dear friends, see this. The Ergenekon case is the most obvious example.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0088par0177	What happened in Ergenekon, Mr. Bachelor?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0087par0178	We're getting out of being a state of law, a state of law. We're getting out of law enforcement. You're angry, we call you Darbe. There's violence. We call it violence, you get angry, but it's actually illegal, it's illegal, it's illegal, it's illegal, we're rolling into a government like this, my dear friends. Let me tell you one last thing and I won't be long. Look, all religion is for people. Everyone seeking goodness has a common quest: the pursuit of freedom. Both our prophet and our Prophet were sent in search of freedom. He didn't come here to impose a religion or a lifestyle or anything like that. He came to people to erase the mistakes of religion, lifestyles, ideas, to make things clear, to make things clear, to make things clear, to make us a religious team, so he came to them, and he didn't impose religion on anyone. Finally he said: "My religion is for me, your religion is for you." But what did he say? "Fitne" he said. ▪ Let us remove the obstacles to freedom of speech in front of people's freedom of thought. Let us put away the covering of truth. He said, "Let the people see the truth with their own minds. It's a test of human arrival, isn't it, dear friends? So, what's happening to you? What are you afraid of, what are you afraid of? Why is there so much confidence in one side and fear on the other? What is this fear? There's been an incident in Karaman, the perpetrator's been arrested, he'll be tried or something. Why are you guys so panicked? It's not about you, it could be anywhere.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0089par0182	We didn't panic.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0087par0183	There could be personality disorders all over the place. What happened to you? Why is it that newspapers.....ha, we're glad, we're glad, they're from the revolutionary tradition......... friends, wrong, there's no reason for you to do something like this, but you can't recognize old habits and you're rounding up Turkey, all of us, into darkness.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0089par0184	Speak according to where you stand!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0087par0185	Now, to get 50%, to get 49 percent, that's not important. Pharaoh's governments had been elected in the past and in the present, with 90 percent, 95 percent. What's important is, after you've been elected, how do you treat people who don't think like you?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0090par0186	People are giving us the report card, people!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0087par0188	Are you okay with people who don't think like you expressing their thoughts? That's all that matters. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0091par0191	İstanbul MP Haydar Ali Yıldız will be the last speaker to oppose the People's Democratic Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0092par0194	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the HDP group proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly, our great nation. Today we have martyrs again, fire in the hearts of mothers. The children were left to this nation as orphans, and the women became widows. May the Lord grant patience and no more pain. As of yesterday, the last table of our Ottomangazi Bridge, connected to Orhangazi, was put by our President, our Prime Minister. We build bridges to history, bridges to civilization, bridges to hearts. Tomorrow, April 23rd, is the day of the opening of this House, the seat of national will. May my Lord make this assembly, where the values of the nation are represented, and our national values represented, and our native values represented. We are members of a civilization, a faith that has dealt with the verse. The late Cemil Meric says: "A discussion without describing the words is always condemned to be barren. " What is freedom, in that sense? What is freedom? What is truth? What's right? These things need to be thoroughly investigated. The Republic of Turkey is a state of law, no matter what you call it. The freedom of the press is also guaranteed in our Constitution. The 26th article of our Constitution: "Everyone has the right to express and disseminate their opinion and opinion in words, writing, painting, or other ways. Of course, the use of these freedoms, national security, public order, the basic qualities of the republic and the undivised integrity of the state and nation, the prevention of crimes, punishment of criminals, the lack of information specified as a state secret, the purpose of protecting others' reputations rights or family lives or the professional secrets of the law. Likewise, the 28th article, which regulates freedom of the press, states internal and non-divisible integrity of the state with its country and its nation, or encourages crime or rebellion or rebellion or any covert information related to the state, or authors or printers or for the same purpose, is also stated in our Constitutional Law to punish those who publish it, give it to someone else, and to intervene in the same way with the judicial decision of the press and media organisations. Thus, it has been stated in our Constitution that one issue can be restricted under the freedom of the press, on the one hand the freedom of the press, and on the other the freedom of the press can be restricted for reasons such as national security and public order. From the Ottomans, starting in 1831, newspapers, magazines, and books are freely published in every language in this land, starting with the Calendar-i Case. Turkey has the highest standards in democratic countries in this sense, freedom of press and freedom of opinion. Meanwhile, the AK PARTY has made arrangements for freedom of speech, freedom of speech so far, everyone is well-known, but those who declare there is no freedom of press in Turkey and those who declare it out there, of course, are hostile to this nation, the local and national values of this nation, the AK PARTI, and this nation. By revealing the secrets of the nation and the state, to leave Turkey alone in the international arena, to accuse, can it be an expression of a national and honorable thinker or intellectual? Now, on the issue of freedom of the press, Cemil Meric says: "From the beginning of Tanzimat, the intellectual must be deceived and deceived in this land." We want to say that there is no freedom of the press in Turkey every day. No one can make a controversial, disputing statement against the head of state in Europe or in a democratic country of the world, but every day in Turkey, which is alleged to have no freedom in this sense, negative publications, insulting publications can be made against our President. So we can easily talk about free press, free media in this country. These people know our press history, they know media history. In the meantime, we, the MPs, and this nation, have been exposed to 411 hands of chaos, reminiscent of the headlines, the newspapers. Of course, we know about the days when there was a closed-party case with newspaper clippings. We all know how to pressure the judiciary, the government and the legislature through the press. And again, we know how to change hands through the press, how to lower governments. You may be wise with the knowledge of others, but you can be wise with your own mind. We will light our way with our own lantern, and we will walk with our nation to the great and new Turkey, God willing. Dirty projects, dirty projects, people who sell their pencils, people who sell their conscience, people who sell their hearts, people who have been treated in history, will be treated the same way in this land. We are now reinventing our own position, our own word, our own path, our own dreams. We will continue to fight against those who oppose this nation's stance, our fight will continue with those who oppose the word of this nation, our fight against those who oppose our great Turkish march. Our struggle against our dreams, against the enemies of the country, against the enemies of history, against the enemies of the nation will continue, as it did yesterday. He says that we will live with our nation again -- the values of this land, the presidential system that carries the values of this nation -- in a way that will be the nature of our re-enactment, building, and care -- together, hopefully, by understanding, living, building new bridges, as it was yesterday, we will all live together, and I salute you with love. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0093par0207	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0094par0208	Mr. President has stated in his speech that this motion that we have made is intended to destroy media freedom by territorial propaganda. There's been some bullying against our group. That's why we want the word.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0093par0209	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0094par0210	Ayhan Bilgen will speak.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0093par0211	On behalf of the group, Mr. Ayhan Bilgen... Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0095par0215	Dear MPs, I don't understand the content of the speech, the comparison of Cemil Meric's word to today's painting. I've read all the works of Cemil Meric, but his criticism of the intellectuals is about the intellectuals, not the intellectuals, who are in opposition, who are in favor of the authorities, not the intellectuals, who are paying the price; otherwise those who stay close to the authorities will not be called intellectuals, and no one will accept him as enlightened. But this whole anti-historic thing is kind of interesting, and I think it's important. Look, it's in Bacara Sura...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0096par0217	It depends on its power, its power!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0095par0218	It doesn't change according to power. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0097par0219	Please don't talk to me in person, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0095par0220	Look, let me remind you of a promise from Ebul Vefa. The Padişah invites, says, Ebül Vefa says: "He who is near to power is not the scholar who goes to the foot of power, but the ruler who goes to the feet of scholars is a respected ruler. Your relationship is an opposite relationship, a diagonal relationship. Look, Nasuhi Güngör's -- let's not go anywhere else -- is currently being processed in the TRT. Why? Because of his speech yesterday. So, until yesterday, when he was in favor of power, when he did a little criticism from his newspaper today, let alone the opponents, let alone the others... so here, you'd better look at history, look at the intellectual, look at the journalist, rethink all these matters. It is said in the Surah of Bakara that you are responsible for what they have earned. You will not be responsible for what those who were before you did, but take warning from the past. This is what we do to those who have been involved in dark relations in the past. It's an embarrassing sentence. What has been done in the past? Abdulhamid threw him in the dungeon. There are executions in the Republic period for journalists, academics. So instead of learning from these past mistakes and threatening him...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0098par0223	He didn't talk about journalists, he talked about traitors.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0095par0224	I think it would be a better explanation if you learned from here and said, "This is not going to happen again." I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0099par0227	Mr. President, the orator who just spoke has taunted our group about the people who have created anti-national policies, meaning our group openly. We'll answer.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0100par0228	He didn't make a concrete tease.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0099par0229	It's very concrete, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0101par0230	No such claim, no such claim. He meant the lobby against Turkey.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0099par0231	Mr. President, he didn't say anything, he said it was a political party.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0101par0232	Mr. Free, not at all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0102par0233	Mr. Special, I've heard the speech very well. Any concrete claim against your group...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0099par0234	I didn't mean the preacher, I don't mind the lecture.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0102par0235	...has made no claim to create any perception.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0099par0236	No, let the preacher say it, I didn't mean it. Let him say it, I'll sit down.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0102par0237	Here you go. Let's get a statement from your position. What do you mean by that?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0103par0240	No, let him say he didn't mean the CHP.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0102par0241	Did you say anything concrete about the Republican People's Party?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0104par0242	Did you mention CHP as an enemy of Turkey, brother?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0105par0243	Mr. President, in my speech, I would like to say that I did not mention any political party or CHP.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0106par0244	No, we're asking if you mean it, we know you don't.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0107par0245	Okay, he didn't mean it, he didn't mention it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0106par0246	No, I didn't. He says it's something else. Mr. President, I know you don't mention it, so let him say if he meant it or not.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0108par0247	Let the transcripts come in, look.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0107par0248	Did you mean to say that?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0109par0249	We don't mean to, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0107par0250	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0110par0251	Yes, sir, all right.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0107par0255	I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0110par0258	Request roll call.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0107par0259	We've got a roll call. Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Green, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Karabiyik, Mr. Sixok, Mr. Türkmen, Mr. Akadil, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Bektaşoğlu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Uğuttutan, Mr. Köse, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Engin, Mr. Akyıld, Mr. Turpcu. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the group proposal is not accepted. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the negotiations of the International Adjective Co-operation Act and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Yesterday's merger remained in the voting process of Balıkesir MP Mehmet Alli and his friends' motion, which was the second motion for the first chapter of Law Bill 278, which was considered the main law under Article 91. To remind you of the motion, I'll have it reread and vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 16th article of the International Court of Business Law shall be changed in the following manner in the criminal matters in which 278 rows are being discussed. ) Protection measures are imposed on the person requested to be extradited at every stage of the heavy criminal court extradition process according to the provisions of the Penal Code. Mehmet All (Fishesir) and his friends I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the duration of Article 16 of the International Adli Co-operation Act (14) of Article 278 in the current criminal matters shall be changed in the form of the terms of the notice. Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0111par0287	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0107par0288	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0112par0289	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0107par0290	Mr. Deniz Depboy will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0113par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 16 of the International Judicial Co-operation Act on Criminal Matters. I salute each and every one of you. Dear lawmakers, the bill that we've discussed is basically about judicial aid, extradition of criminals, the age of investigation and prosecution, the age of execution and the transfer of prisoners. However, as we all know, the bill is part of a visa exemption in the integration process of the European Union, but even now it is unclear whether visa exemption will be applied. To fight crime and criminals in the legal framework, our country has signed agreements with more than 10 countries, including the United States, Morocco, Egypt, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and Tunisia. I'd like to speak in front of you about the crimes in question. These are organised crimes, such as corruption, terrorism, bribery, money laundering, drugs and smuggling, and more. It may not be possible to end national and international bribery, smuggling, money laundering, but every step of the way is important to us. You need to be firm and stable in dealing with crimes and criminals. Judicial co-operation is of great importance in the international rule of law. We think that every amendment to the international legal system is for the benefit of our country, but what's important is that these changes are being implemented to the benefit of our country. With this bill, the implementation of contracts in internal law and the current regulations in our internal law are also intended to make disorganisation of disorganised legislation and the contract mentioned should not conflict with the draft provisions. Otherwise, there will be a legally negative situation. The bill has provisions that contradict contracts, and since these contradictions are not being resolved in the commission, it must be addressed in the General Assembly. It should be our first goal to examine whether each arrangement will be in the interests of our country and of our beloved Turkish nation, but unfortunately, this arrangement is not based on our needs, but on the imposition of the European Union. As the National Movement Party, we find the bill positive for preventing countries from becoming a refuge for criminals, but we also have objections and reservations about the bill. When the bill was 200 articles, many issues were overlooked, pressed, ignored, and brought to the General Assembly in 38 articles. We've been subjected to a series of rogue attacks by the terrorist organization lately. The importance of international cooperation in this area is also evident, given the country's long-standing struggle with terrorism. And today, unfortunately, we have given martyrs to terror, and I ask God's mercy to each and every one of them, and I offer my condolences to his relatives and to the mighty Turkish nation. However, if you look at the integrity of the bill, there is no additional mechanism in other countries that can prevent the extradition of terrorist organization militants to our country and the nesting of separatists in countries. On the contrary, it is a right to remain where the situation is advantageous for one's benefit. We owe it to our soldiers and police, our martyrs and our veterans, who fight terrorism for the national unity and unity of the bill to regulate provisions that would lead to such situations. So we believe, not under visa exemption and under the compulsion of Europe, that those who love their country and their nation, as their representatives, should take a sincere look at this bill. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we have supported any work in the interest of our country and its beloved Turkish nation, and we will continue to be. The welfare and happiness that our nation deserves, the undistributable integrity of the country and the nation, are essential to us, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0114par0303	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 17 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the "interested Court" declaration to come after the declaration of the 17th Article (3) of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278, which is currently in session. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir Baki Simsek Kamil Aydın Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 17 of the International Adli Co-operation Act on 278 rows add the following joke between the 17th and (3)th jokes of the International Code of Co-operation, and that the other jokes be sorted after this joke. Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Kazim Arslan Mehmet Gökdağ Selina Doğan The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Ayhan Bilgen Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0115par0328	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0114par0329	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0116par0330	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0114par0331	The first speaker on the proposals will be Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0117par0334	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have just stated that when you reduce the 200 articles to 38, the future crises, the challenges of the law-making method of doing this, we know, but it doesn't matter, let's save today, and then when we have that crisis, we'll take care of it again; that's how it's taken care of; that's how it's done, that's how it's approached. But I think we need to find a solution to all of this. You know, that famous expression, you know, raising heads to the Padishah, or raising heads to the pasah. This is exactly how the House works right now, we're trying to make law to the European Union. So to pass the number of laws expressed by May 5th, it's not enough that this House has to work 24 hours, it has to work 48 hours, maybe this will survive. But there's another formula, see, it might be possible to do this: a temporary Constitution clause, what the European Union has asked us to do so far, what they've said for free movement, what they're probably going to ask for, let's vote here in the form of a clear check, by adding a temporary clause to the Constitution, to solve this problem radically. There's no other way to catch up. Of course, this proposal seemed a little strange to you, but shouldn't we at least speak up to ourselves as to why a government, a ruling group, is trying to solve the issue of immunity with an open, constitutional, interim clause? We are faced with a very clear picture, so let these materials pass quickly and be strengthened to negotiate with the European Union because of these substances. There are, yes, very positive provisions here, so the court's decision is very good, but the final approval is of the Ministry of Justice, which means the final court may not be able to see the truth, and the person's request may not be right, and the Minister of Justice will make the final decision. Now, from the moment you give the administration such initiative, everything becomes controversial. Just as the position of the HSYK is not accepted in the international arena, just as a delegation that the Minister is the chairman of has also made Turkey difficult in terms of judicial independence in the international arena, the law that we are trying to pass is actually being raised in the same incorrectly. But now there is a very warm development in the state of the Justice Minister and the state of the judiciary in Turkey, concerning his position, and the academics are being tried in Cambodia. These academics are not on trial for what they say, precious MPs, who are being tried for what they don't say because so far no one in your group has said that these academics are guilty, that they are calling for violence. Why did you not criticize them as well? Now, if people can be judged in a country for what they didn't say, and more seriously, when these academics are being tried, I want to take a shower with their blood on them. The person who says, "If he's not still out there," the position of the Minister of Justice, the position of the judiciary in that country, of course, will be a matter of debate, but in fact, those academics, the precious MPs, are not just defending themselves, defending peace for the freedom of Turkey, defending the academy, testing us to see if the different thinker is going to be arrested in this country, whether the different thinker is going to be expelled from the university, and the other thinker's contract is going to be terminated. If the President continues his approach, which aims directly at academics and continues his hatred for academics, let alone the position of the legislature, I think the whole world will appreciate how the position of the judiciary should be read. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0118par0341	Thank you. The other speaker on the same motions will be Denizli MP Kazim Arslan. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0119par0345	Mr. President, I salute you with love, first and foremost. I have made a promise in criminal matters regarding the amendment motion that we have submitted to Article 17 of the International Co-operation Act. Of course, when these negotiations are being held here, the Minister of Justice should be present and taking advantage of our thoughts, unfortunately, not the Minister of Justice is here, our Minister of Development is here, and I wish our Minister of Justice had been here. My dear friends, first of all, we will celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of April 23rd tomorrow. Happy birthday to all of us. I remember the Grand Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who gave us this holiday, with love, respect, and gratitude, and bow before our great ancestor, who founded this House. Dear friends, by the way, to our three soldiers who have been martyred in the southeast, I pray for God's mercy, and for those who are wounded, I pray for immediate healing. My dear friends, we are discussing this bill in a time when the judiciary is not independent, when it does its duty under pressure and instructions, when it makes decisions. Of course, some judges and prosecutors, while some legal, legal, conscientious decisions have been made -- because they truly trusted themselves, because they were courageous -- we all bear witness that many judges and prosecutors, under pressure, have made decisions that are genuinely compassionate and political and try to cover up many events. Prior to this bill of integration, it is essential that the judiciary be both neutral and independent, free to decide by conscience and by law. See, we all have to work for it, we have to work for it. We should all show that there is a genuinely fair trial in Turkey and that the principle of the legal state is being established in Turkey, and that we should also make Turkey's trust on the international level clear. Because I want to say that being a law state is not only a prestige for Turkey, but also for us in the world. So, everybody needs law, everybody needs justice. Those who need it today may not hear it tomorrow, and those who don't need it today may face a fair trial tomorrow. For him, we should all be together under the rule of law. You know, after the investigations of December 17th and 25th were conducted, prosecutors and judges were replaced by a non-obstruction order, and the files were closed as if there was no crime. But Riza Sarraf, one of the original perpetrators of this business, went to America, was arrested, asked to be punished for seventy-five years. So it's obvious here that the people they work with, the people they're with, are also guilty. Other than that, there was the Lighthouse case. In the case of the Lighthouse, it was also said that the original criminals were in Turkey as a result of the lawsuit in Germany, but the prosecution and the judge were eventually acquitted as a result of the trial. There was a trial against the judge who filed that case. My dear friends, in such a system of law, we cannot truly find truth and truth in such a system of justice, we cannot prevent injustice. So I invite all of you to be fair, to be united under the rule of law. I salute you all again with respect and love, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0120par0355	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the "interested Court" declaration to come after the declaration of the 17th Article (3) of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278, which is currently in session. Kamil Aydın (Erzurum) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0121par0362	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0120par0363	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0122par0364	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0120par0365	Anthalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0123par0368	Mr. President, members of parliament, citizens of the United States, today we are discussing the International Administratorial Co-operation Act on Criminal Matters. International business units, diplomatic, economic, social and cultural relations are essential to integration into the world. Why is international integration important? Because it provides the means to limit illegal trade as much as possible. It allows proper mechanisms to be set up so international sanctions can be rushed to life. Black money and its source make it easier to create labor units that prevent an uncertain flow of money. International integration is a factor more important in countries where some businessmen close to government in countries such as ourselves are rich with the help of an unregistered economic wheel in which they are rich in an unfair, rightful tax legislation, not knowingly or intentionally. The tax legislation of some countries may allow certain tax privileges to arise as a result of some relations, but the country's anti-darm system is under strict control of countries that will trade with them. The only thing that separates our country from an isolated Middle Eastern country is that we have turned our face to the West from the beginning of the republic. I would like to take this opportunity again to warn the government who's been trying to turn our country back into the Middle East in recent years. In financial crimes, as a country, you're either on the white side or you're on the black side. Otherwise, if you want to stay in the gray area, like the AKP government, you leave our country in the middle of illegal trade relations that want to get rid of international sanctions. As a matter of fact, we've turned into a country that's been waiting to learn from foreign courts the consequences of the bribes and dirty relations that two cheeky people have committed in our country. There's a scene in movies where the criminal travels to the border, trying to leave his country with all his might. The country he's trying to reach is a country where politicians take bribes and therefore don't easily extradite criminals. These events are seen in movies, but they're not far from the truth. We all know that vigilantes prefer these countries that stay away from international integration. The fact that people who are known in our country as a wealthy and so-called influential businessman are being tried for international financial crimes in other countries is an embarrassment, but it also saddens us as part of our country's good fortune. We've all read the story of a prisoner in our country who claims to have been handing out $8.5 billion in bribes to politicians and on death row. We all know this person's imprisoned partner in the United States. And I'm afraid it's only yesterday that the pool media brought this person up in front of the Turkish nation and carried out a laundering operation. If the AKP government wants to co-operate with developed countries, it has to remember these two concepts at every step; the first is law, and the second is transparency. As a citizen, I don't want to live in a country where international criminal organizations, with the help of bribes, are trading illegal valuable minerals and money. My country must be pure and completely independent. It is my greatest desire that those who want to rule the Turkish nation do not have a wheel for international dirty mechanisms. A developing and producing economy can only be possible in a spotless commercial atmosphere. A fair tax legislation is undoubtedly essential in a clean commercial atmosphere. As a citizen, I demand a tax regime based on right and right. So the international forensic co-operation mechanism will become more functional. I give you all my love and respect for listening to me very carefully.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0124par0375	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The 18th article...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0125par0379	Mr. President, I have a request in accordance with the Civil Code of 60. Here you go, Mr. Bauken. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've asked for word on the outcome of the policies that the AKP government has been trying to implement for years under the Health Transformation Project. We've been trying to arrange an intensive care bed for a T.B. patient who's been in Bingol State Hospital for five hours. As a result of AKP's policies, Turkey can't find any hospital in Turkey if any TB is currently suffering from a disease that will require intensive care. Although we have repeatedly referred to the Ministry of Health for this type of problem over the past year, although we have stated that the need for intensive care for special treatment for TB patients should be met immediately, so far there has been no improvement.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0126par0387	Here, one more minute...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0125par0388	So, since there are no isolation rooms where the negative aspiration systems are created by special ultraviolet rays, any tuberculosis patient is left to die when he suffers from an intensive care disorder. Today we've been pushing treatment opportunities for a 45-year-old patient in intensive care for exactly five hours, but even though we've searched every reference hospital in Turkey, including Istanbul, there is no room for the patient, there is no intensive care unit for the patient to be followed. This means that this 45-year-old patient is being left to die as a result of the AKP government's health policies. There's no way to accept that. The Ministry of Health must immediately form intensive care units where TBs can be monitored privately. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The last time we brought this problem back up here, we lost a TB patient who needed intensive care; it's been a year and we're still facing the same problem. Thank you for providing this opportunity.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0127par0392	Thank you. Get well soon. If there's anything we can do, I want you to know that we're ready to do it, too. Yes, there are three motions in Article 18: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 18th Amendment in Article 18 of Criminal Co-operation Act (I.A.) be replaced as a nonprofit in Article (1) of Article 18 of Article 18 of the Criminal Co-operation Act (I.E.). İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir Baki Simsek Kamil Aydın Mevlüt Karakaya Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the international agreement shall be changed as international agreement in Article 1 of Article 18 of the International Criminal Co-operation Act on Article 278." Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Tahsin Tarhan Selina Doğan Mehmet Gökdağ Erkan Aydın Mustafa Ali Balbay The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan of Mahmoud Celadet Bagadal Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0128par0419	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0127par0420	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0129par0421	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0127par0422	Mr. Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı of Bitlis will first speak on the motions. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0130par0425	Mr. President, on behalf of my Democratic Party of Peoples and my group, I have made a pledge on the 18th Amendment of Bill of Law 278. I salute everyone. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that all these laws, which are being tried to be passed one after another today for the European Union's visa liberalisation, will not yield results if a strong democratic culture is not created. And what is democracy? The idea of democracy that has been commonly used for over two thousand and five hundred years is based on ancient Greek; it means "demos" or "people," and "kratos" means "people's power" as the term "demos" means "people's power." Of course, every democratic regime contains a state form, but not every state includes democracy. If journalists are being tried for journalism in a country, if politicians are arrested for their politics in a country, if central authorities are being held as a means of pressure on the judiciary, democracy is impossible to talk about. In particular, political structure and functioning in modern democracies are shaped by the balances established between legislation, executive and jurisprudence. However, the government, which is obliged to maintain this balance, has made it clear that it does not even observe the basic balances, saying, "We have the law, we have the judgment, we have the execution." We are faced with a method that is far from the values and understanding of democracy, and it is clear that this understanding will not yield results on its path to the EU. England has already taken the first step. We are not in the Schengen region, and the Schengen region has decided to offer the Turks visa liberalisation. We haven't made that decision, and we won't. However, let us remember that the visa is a visa that grants visits rather than settling and working in countries. Turks who visit Schengen countries on visas have no right to come to Britain or automatically enter the country. It is very important to understand this clearly. He used his expression. This is an expression that reveals more or less Europe's perspective. Today in Turkey, we face questions on many issues, such as pressure on the press on many international platforms, antidemocratic practices, cities under curfews, civilian deaths, rights violations, arrested politicians and journalists. From these questions, they are trying to undermine our country and our government. You can't get away with propaganda, perception management. Unfortunately, these are the facts of Turkey. However, there is still a ruling structure that prioritizes security policies. Every idea of a solution that preceded security has served nothing but centralisation, polarization, oppression, and violence, as it is clearly seen in today's Turkey. However, it is necessary to produce a policy that prioritizes man and society. More democracy will bring with it more freedom and a safe life. All we need is to work together to build a fair, democratic and equal life. For this to happen, the solution and the way to negotiate peace in the Kurdish issue must first be implemented by a peaceful foreign policy. A new constitution, based on democratic, pluralist, contributor, central transfer of powers, must pass through this Parliament. I believe with all my heart that when we do this, the closed doors will open themselves, that we can build a strong and lasting future together. Such a constitution is not our wish, but our need. Otherwise, you will continue to hear similar critical questions in all international areas, and you will see everyone except yourself in charge. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0131par0432	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. The other speaker is Mr. Mustafa Ali Balbay, MP of İzmir. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0132par0436	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we are now discussing a law under the laws of integration to the European Union, in essence, that the universal values of law are in some sense valid in Turkey. In my speech from this bench the other day, it reminded you of the Ergenekon case, and I said, "Come, let's apply the universal principles of law in all areas in Turkey." The case was concluded, and, as Mr. Bostanci pointed out, the Supreme Court has shredded this case today, as several newspapers, or almost all newspapers, underlined it. Congressmans, you've passed all the laws in this case. Today, we have no responsibility for this case, so it's parallel. You can't say, "You can't say, you can't say." If you do, tomorrow you'll have to make a similar assessment of the illegalities that are happening today. I can give you a lot of examples, but, Congressmans, I'd just like to give you an example of the secret witness law that was passed by this House in 2007 by the Justice and Development Party. There's a witness protection law in every country in the world, but this law protects the witness after he testifies, not before, because the defendant has the right to know who's talking about him. We didn't know, Congressman. There was a person we didn't know talking behind a glass compartment. I'll tell you a scene. We're all listening to the confidential witness in the courtroom. He sees us through the camera, we don't see him. As we were all walking around, each defendant felt like a gun was pointed at him because I saw it, and he said, "This is what he was doing." He said, "I saw the secret witness and this person." Where did you see him? I saw him at the house of the mobster. He said. When did you see him, they said. Two years ago, he said. Are you sure about the date? Yes, yes, he was there two years ago. It's a secret witness, guys. Thank you, Mr. Court Council, for judging me under arrest, I've been under arrest for four years. It was a case like this, guys. I've been in these courts for 3,000 hours in front of a judge. In the face of this injustice, do you believe, I miss my prison cell, so let's go to our cell. Seven people have died in these trials, but believe me, dozens of people have lost their minds, my lawmakers. A defendant was staying in my nearby ward. Every once in a while, he throws paper from the top floor... there are communication methods in the prison: you put paper in the middle of the onion, you put it in the other ward, you wrap it in the battery... he said: "I've met the President of the United States, he'll finish the case." And then I sent him to the prison administration when there were a few similar things, and they sent him to treatment. So for these cases, it was like this, but not this one, members of lawmakers. In these cases, look, do you know how much the total file is? 120 million pages. Who can make law from here? They put all the files together. 120 million pages and 150 hidden witnesses have been heard. 90 percent of the confidential witnesses -- believe me -- have no chance of getting out of prison, and if they testify in secret, they could get out, and many of them turned out to be killers, and one of them is currently on the lam in Bulgaria. I don't expect an apology for myself. Come on, tell me this case is wrong for the rest of us. The trial of Can Dündar, Erdem Gül and academics is under way in İstanbul today. You're all talking about the murder case. Believe me, if you look at some of the details, maybe next year you'll think it's very different. The law really needs everyone, and Bacon has a saying that the worst of tortures is by law. And we have listened to indictments like torture from time to time, members of parliament. In this sense, I really wish that these laws -- they're the laws of compliance with the European Union -- are Turkey's law of law. We never gave up on the people and the law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do research... you are people who rely on public opinion, or rather, on national will, on the values of the people.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0133par0447	Thank you, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0132par0448	Recently, the belief in Ergenekon cases had been reduced to 10 per cent. In those cases, we still feel over 100,000 people who came to Silivri on December 13, 2012. I also want to thank them from this bench. But please, remember, the law may be needed for everyone, and today's illegalities have been wrong for the next year, and the next year, after losing some people, I'm saying don't have to say it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0133par0451	Thank you, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0134par0452	I want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0133par0453	I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... Let's do it with the electronics. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, and the motions of the same nature are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 18th Amendment in Article 18 of Criminal Co-operation Act (I.A.) be replaced as a nonprofit in Article (1) of Article 18 of Article 18 of the Criminal Co-operation Act (I.E.). Mevlüt Karakaya (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0135par0463	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0133par0464	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0136par0465	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0133par0466	Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0137par0469	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding Article 18 of the International Judicial Co-operation Act. Before I address this bill by the Justice Department, I'd like to bring up an issue about my electoral environment, Adana, and especially the provinces in this region. Dear lawmakers, of course, justice is important. It has just been said from here, from this bench, for two days, that the Supreme Court's final decision is a very clear and clear example of the state of Turkey's state of justice. Justice is a very important foundation for God's sake. Government is also the most important place for justice to be placed. So, when we really act, I want to express that we need justice in every area. What were the injustices committed to my constituency? The first was the closure of the district administrative court and the binding of the province to Iconium. The second is that the district justice court is tied to Gaziantep. Actually, these two problems are current. In January, I specifically submitted a motion to ask about the closure of the district administrative court and its commitment to Iconium. As always, as lawmakers, we can't comply with our audit duties through question motions, unfortunately, because there is no answer. And so, on this occasion, I wanted to say again verbally from here, from the nation's bench, and in this motion, I asked what public interest was being provided in closing the Adana District Administration Court. Again, I asked if the establishment or formation of the regional administrative court in the Prime Minister's hometown of Iconium had prevented a district administration court from forming in Adana. Again, I asked why a single district administrative court of the Mediterranean region was closed when at least one regional administrative court was opened in all of Turkey's geographical regions. I'm afraid I didn't get an answer. Not just Adana, but Osmaniye, Mersin, Hatay and Kahramanmarash, I would like to express that the decision that concerns and affects about 7 million people directly in the entire Eastern Mediterranean Mediterranean. Of course, while we were in shock of this decision, we learned that the Adana District Court of Justice was linked to Gaziantep. And I'm afraid our written motion to the Minister of Justice on this matter has not been answered. Mr. Secretary, the law is very clear. The Law on district administration courts 2576 states that the district administration courts, administrative courts and tax courts are established by the Ministry of Justice and the judiciary, considering the geographical conditions and volumes of the districts. When you look at the workload of Adana, you see that it is ranked third. When you take Niğde and Gaziantep, you see that it is located in the middle of the region where 10 million people live. However, the district administrative court in Adana is connected to Konya in the west, and the district court in the east is connected to Antwerp. For God's sake, what kind of justice is that? How could the institution in charge of the justice system do such injustice? This is what we think, especially in this region, of Mersin, Adana, Osmaniye; Hatay, Republican People's Party, where the nationalist Movement Party has its local governments -- so I'm asking if it's a punishment, a punishment, a director of persecution. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0138par0480	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 19 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "connected" clause at the end of Article 19 of the International Adli Co-operation Act (1) be changed into "connected" in the 778 rows of criminal matters. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir Bakı Simsek Kamil Aydın Seyfettin Yilmaz Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same property, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 19 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act in Article 278, as follows. Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Tahsin Tarhan Selina Doğan Mehmet Gökdağ "1) If the severe criminal court determines that the extradition request is acceptable, the fulfillment of this decision depends on the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Interior and on the approval of the Minister of Justice and on the approval of the Council of Ministers." The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan of Mahmoud Celadat Bagpipes Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0139par0508	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0138par0509	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0140par0510	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0138par0511	Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan will first speak on the proposals. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0141par0514	Mr. President, I salute Mr. Court and the General Assembly. Of course, I need to make a more important point because for a week, representatives of the NGOs from Mardin, Urbana, Diyarbakır, and Batman have been coming to the region to express their grievances, especially about the shortage of electricity in farming areas, and they want us to do something about it. We'll make an announcement and demand immediate action on this matter. There are over 100,000 farmers in the region, and there are about 800,000 family structures that live with it, a million, and for a week, they have been warned to put on new counters. They've already got an old meter, they're already using a meter. Their power went out before they could be granted any respite. The power's been out for a week, and if it lasts another week, all that grain is going to dry, it's going to die. That's about 3-3.5 million tons. The drying of this means importing 3.5 million tons of grain from the outside, and again, 3.5 million tons of grain won't be exported out. In this sense, Turkey would also be a major loss of economics. And while we're making a point of this, especially to this, DEDAŞ says that these debtors are in debt. These debts have been paid more than they were last year. How'd it get turned off? The government set aside the benefits for the farmer and placed them in the account of Dedesh. Thus, most farmers are now in fact in debt. There may be some debtors, but it's not right to have power outages for some debtors, to get up and damage the whole area. Of course, with the power outage, the water cuts and the crops grow. Since both Syria and Iraq are now closed doors, there is no trade, and there is no domestic or foreign tourism left, farming is now the only source of income in the region. That's how it's destroyed, and people are being victimized. Last year, in Ramadan, there were these blackouts. In Ramadan, people were unable to drink cold water iftar. Something similar is happening this year. I mean, what's wrong with the crops? There is also a moral and faithful responsibility. The plants there, the greenery, all the trees, the plants, the animals, and the creature, remember God, according to our belief. And leaving them to dry will also require a conscientious sin. I'd like to present this to your eye. However, right now the villagers are out of power. So it's not just those who farm, make it a profession, it's the villagers in the region who lose power. There's already a drought in the region, and with this water not being given, this drought will increase. We need to get the sanctions on this as soon as possible. It was a law-related, justice-related clause, and I present it to Derek court last week: Derekler appeals to the Derek court for electricity to be given, and Derek court decides that the electric current is being activated, although this decision is not being implemented and the power blackout is still under way, so we've left a moral, faith-based, decision being made, and this legal decision, unfortunately, is not in accordance with the decision, and we're presenting it to the ministers of electricity. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0142par0523	Thank you, Mr. Lion. The other speaker on the same proposals will be Mr. Zeynep Altuk. Here you go, Mr. Sixok.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0143par0527	Mr. President, I have news for you that there is no organization called Ergenekon. What a useful sack it was that you threw away those you did not love, and those you disagreed with, and all that you found on the opposite side. It's clear that millions of pages of secret witness slander have been staged, created with crazy nonsense that can't even be described, that a false case is actually set up to waste time, to steal people's lives in vain. What didn't you want to put in that sack from the murder of Uður Mumcu to the Sivas massacre? However, you were the ones who stood at equal distance from all parties and rejected those commissions by the sons of the murdered intellectuals to come together for the search of the Social Memory Platform, to shed light on the unsolved political killings. When he said, you were the ones who rejected those commissions, despite the votes of all parties in this parliament. Now, you're all being deceived, especially the court dweller at the top of the state.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0144par0530	He is not a resident of the court, but his name is Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0145par0531	Don't say "Saray resident"!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0146par0532	There are no attacks. Are you saying?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0147par0533	Yeah, well, if Ergenekon's not here, it's necessary to create new cases, isn't it?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0146par0534	I mean, the court hasn't decided yet, it hasn't.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0147par0535	And tomorrow you'll be up, and it turns out that the journalists aren't spies.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0146par0536	You will learn to respect those who are chosen by the will of the people.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0147par0537	And tomorrow you're going to wake up, and tomorrow you're going to say that academics are not terrorists. You're going to say, "They're honorable people who produce science." You're going to say, "We've been deceived."
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0148par0538	You first learn to address the President in a regular manner.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0147par0539	We were deceived by belief in crazy statements, but we didn't believe the news of journalists who wrote the truth by believing in evidence.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0148par0540	He is the President of the citizens of this country, first learn about him.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0147par0541	Remember there was a Prime Minister who once said, "I'm sorry if he's in the literature when he's doing politics over massacres?" I'll let you know again, my friends, yes, it's in the literature, let them apologize, it's apology day. (CHEERING) Let them come and apologize. It's not enough, but yes, there has to be more. Because an apology isn't enough, because the people you stole their lives from, the people you forced to commit suicide...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0149par0542	The trial hasn't ended yet.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0147par0543	...the journalists you forced to commit suicide, the ones you tortured in isolation...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0150par0544	Let's not go too far back, and then there might be trouble. Let's not go too far back.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0147par0545	...because he went to visit his father, and you have to apologize to the little children, the families, the children whose clothes have been pierced by you, by treating him like a terrorist.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0150par0546	It's an important word.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0147par0547	You have to apologize to everyone you've stolen for years.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0151par0548	What about the lives that were stolen from us? Where?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0147par0549	Yes, the lives that were stolen from you, weren't they?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0151par0550	Yeah, he should know how to empathize.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0147par0551	You're right. That's why I say "sorry" is not enough. I'm saying that those who don't apologize for the lives that have been stolen from others don't deserve an apology.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0151par0553	Your ability to empathize...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0147par0554	Yes, in our country today, the process of justice is not in the refrigerator, but in the deep freeze. Justice is no longer in the courts, but in palace-guided palaces of justice.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0152par0555	You'll be stoned to death by the palace.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0147par0556	So, there are two cases today at the Falls Courthouse, both of which are being cheated tomorrow. One of the cases you're going to call. With all the corruption, all the injustice, all the violence, let's not just be touched, but let's touch everyone. You're looking for new victims to throw in new sacks. Adeta, like a witch hunt, you need new victims.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0153par0558	We've never looked at life that way, never looked at it that way.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0147par0559	Instead of the justice of the children touched at the Ensar Foundation, you're looking for new victims on a witch hunt. I speak to the prime minister of the era, who has blessed the statute of limitations on human crimes and gave good news to murderers: yes, there is an apology in literature, and there is a trial. Let him begin with his excuses. It is better for all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0154par0562	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the interconnection of Article 19 of the International Adli Co-operation Act (I.E.) in the 278 rows in which it is being held in accordance with the article (1) at the end of the 19th joke. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0155par0569	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0154par0570	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0156par0571	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0154par0572	Mr Mehmet Günal will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0157par0575	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and the great Turkish nation. On this occasion, we celebrate with mercy and gratitude all our martyrs, especially Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who have led us to this great Assembly, and to celebrate tomorrow's celebration of Sovereignty and Children's Day, and to say good for our nation. But on the other hand, we're talking law over law. International co-operation, judicial cooperation is fine, but unfortunately, we need to review our legal understanding. The reason for the law is that we're going to cooperate, we're going to extradite. But I'm curious if this law, based on international agreements based on this, is that it's going to help to ensure the extradition of people who have fled from abroad, who have fled Turkey, who have been involved in terrorism, and who are wanted with the bulletins. I don't know, since Mr. Secretary is an economist like me, maybe the bureaucrats know. Is there a new arrangement on these matters? And I didn't see the point of coming in a hurry because, you know, when the law came, there was the arrest of Reza Zarrab, or Reza Sarraf, as we call it. I looked at the reason for the clause, and after the decision has been made that the request for extradition is acceptable, the decision is being made to determine whether or not the extradition request of the foreign state should be met. Regarding this discretionary authority, dear friends have also said what should be understood by the rejection of the court's request for extradition. The Prime Minister's decision not to comply with the court's decision that the extradition request is acceptable should be understood, according to the court's decision. I mean, a friend of yours recently said, "We have the boy, we have the girl; we have the life, we have the administration, we have the judgment." But now, after the judge has decided, let's at least do something else to the court, so instead of doing this, find another formula. The court has decided that its application is appropriate. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is giving an opinion, and the Minister of Justice is giving an opinion, but still the Prime Minister can say, "Let's not return it." Well, then...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0158par0578	Maybe it's country politics.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0157par0579	No, I mean, are we not trusting the Attorney General with this extradition issue, or are we not trusting the Minister of Justice?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0158par0580	The court's decision may be legal, but it may not be in the country's best interest.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0157par0581	If he comes after her, the court's decision, what will the court consider it based on? He'll take it based on the evidence he's got. Whatever the Prime Minister's sensitivity, I must not return it, and the court must have that sensitivity. What's he saying? In the name of the great Turkish nation, the court does not say so when he says so. Then I don't understand. Of course, when I say I don't understand, let me give you an example of this investigation that's actually in the media. I mentioned it recently in the motion given by our friends regarding this investigation commission, it's unfinished. Let's say that right now the driver of Reza Sarraf is saying that I will speak. They asked the United States of America in this case, and the man is an American citizen, and he has another accomplice -- for example, I'm telling you -- we're not taking advantage of this clause now. When we say, "We're not giving it." If the court of justice of the United States decides to give it, I'm not giving it to them. The court will take care of it. If he's connected to this case, if he's got anything, he should be given these. I don't know how to transfer authority to Mr. Prime Minister, I mean, fellow experts, friends from the Ministry of Justice, but they already have international contracts, you know, we have bilateral agreements about extradition of criminals, we're making it a country, but I don't understand the exact logic of getting the authority and giving it to Mr. Prime Minister in this way. If we trust the courts, we have to follow their decisions, but as you often do, I don't know them, I don't. Or as Mr. President says in the first place, it's ours, it's ours, it's ours, it's ours, it's ours, it's ours. Despite all that, although we have seen law being slaughtered here from time to time by the law, it is still due to April 23rd that the government belongs to the unconditional nation.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0159par0586	Thank you, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0160par0587	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit02spe0159par0588	I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... Those who don't agree... There's a disagreement between the clerks, let's do it with the electronics. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Let's take a ten-minute break on public desire.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0159par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There are three motions on Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "30 days from now" in Article (2) of Article 20 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278 will be changed to "one month later." Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Tahsin Tarhan Selina Doğan Mehmet Gökdağ Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "if necessary" declaration of Article 20 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act (5) in the 778 rows that are being discussed should be changed into "in case of necessity." İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir Bakı Simsek Kamil Aydın Erkan Haberal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 20 (6) of the International Court of Criminal Co-operation Act (I.A.) in Article 278, which is being discussed in the following way. The demands for the surrender of good third party property to the foreign state are not met. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan of Mahmoud Celadet Bagadal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0161par0025	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0159par0026	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0162par0027	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0159par0028	Diyarbakır MP İdris Bauken will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0163par0031	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Again, we are discussing a bill that directly concerns EU integration and visa exemption. However, we have repeatedly stated: Unless we can resolve the basic issues of human rights, law state, democracy and civil peace in our own country, bring here the technical legal arrangements for homework given to you as much as you want, it is impossible to achieve this goal, because there is still no value to human life in this country. We're constantly expressing our thoughts about what's happening in the region, but I've been thinking about talking about something different, especially, but I'm going to rephrase the suffering of a family that just came to visit me here, despite how many times we've expressed it here, to show you the value of your human life. For a long time, the PKK has had nearly 20 detained soldiers and police in its possession for over a year. The families of these people are miserable, some for their son, some for their wife, some for their grandson, have repeatedly come to Ankara to preach their voices. For months, we haven't been able to hear from our child for over a year, when we go to government officials to meet with state officials, the doors are closed in our face. They say, "The doors are closed." They say, "We want you to come to other political parties, including the HDP," and they say, "We want you to find a solution." Look, we just wanted to bring a research proposal here, and we thought we'd take a political, human-life approach to this, so we said, is it official, is it unofficial, let's have a commission in the House, let's have all the political parties, let's have a certain study, and let's put this into practice, let's get these soldiers and cops on the lookout for how to get them to their families. Unfortunately, you've rejected our motion to investigate, and you haven't moved a muscle about it until now. Look, for a soldier of the State of Israel, you were intermediary at the time. In the talks between Hamas and Israel, officials in Turkey, AKP (AKP) officials mediated, and a thousand Palestinian prisoners were released for one Israeli soldier. You've run this kind of process, but when it comes to the children of this land, I'm afraid you're silent, not moving a muscle. Because for you, those soldiers and police officers are considered to be political material, in terms of evangelical rhetoric, in terms of policy being carried out only when they've lost their lives. So you're putting your hand on a coffin in the polls, and you're trying to lift some nationalist emotions from there, so there's nothing beyond that. In the previous years, the soldiers had not lost their lives in Dağlıca, so your party officials had come out and said, "If only they had died." So those who were under obligation to the survival of the captured soldiers would have died if it hadn't been for that condition. So you have no right, I'll tell you that. You'll have to come out here and explain it safely because of the mandatory military you've brought in, if those children have been delivered, if they've been entrusted, and if you haven't heard from them in over a year. What study did you do? Why haven't you heard from these kids yet? Why are those families so miserable? You all have to express it here. See, you're always saying that you've been feeding on the funeral, you've been feeding on the blood, you've been feeding on the war. Here's the clearest example, who feeds off the funeral, the blood, the war, in the middle. A sense that never moved to bring in the soldiers alive is an understanding that feeds on war. So June 7th and November 1st are the results of the election, there was peace on June 7th, HDP received 13 per cent of the vote, you received 40 per cent of the vote. But after June 7th, you started the war, there was a lot of bloodshed, funerals came every day, HDP dropped 2 percent, you increased 9.5 percent. So that's why, because you feed on war, blood, chaos, you continue to regret that you don't value human life. I'm especially asking you to approach this problem politically, and I'm saying that all parties must be put under the table to get these kids to their families as soon as possible. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0164par0041	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of Article 20 of the International Adli Co-operation Act (278 rows in the current criminal matter) be changed in the form of the notice if it is necessary to find it necessary. Erkan Haberal (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0165par0048	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0164par0049	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0166par0050	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0164par0051	Ankara MP Erkan Haberal will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0167par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, as it is known, as a country, we live in one of the most critical parts of Eurasia's geography, where there is no shortage of hot developments. We are not only at a point where different cultures and civilizations meet, but also at a point where natural transit paths intersect with the energy sources that form the fundamental element of economic development that runs through the lifebloods. This is sufficient for our historical and geographical quality, Turkey, to gain a key position in its entirety. Our country's rare privileged position on earth, of course, brings with it a result that increases both our national resources and advantages, as well as our national duties and responsibilities. Turkey has tried to meet the requirements of these historical heritage and basic preferences in both bilateral and multilateral political and economic relations in the international area. Turkey chose to adhere to its international responsibilities despite widespread and violent acts of terrorism from the 1980s to today. In return, rather than close support and understanding from European states, he saw more criticism and insensitivity. Our country's calls for an effective and decisive fight against terrorism have often been answered negatively, ignoring warnings and suggestions. As a country that has been constantly drawing attention to the threat of terrorism, they have blocked their ears for complaints. September 11th, a number of terrorist attacks on terrorism, on the United States, and on the following developments in several European capitals that are now under way, have also produced significant results in the European Union's laws of harmony, law, co-operation agreements. First of all, it's once again understood that terror is a blind and violent method, where, when, who, how to hit someone. Second, it has been seen that a joint, effective and decisive fight against terrorism is mandatory. Third, the need to identify common concepts and methods in the international fight against terrorism has been proven to be false and the double standards in this area. Fourth, growing global injustices and inequality have proved to be a basis for international terrorism. Finally, it has been understood once again that countries, especially members of the European Union, should take all kinds of terrorism seriously. Today, many terrorist organizations have been exposed as a clear fact that some Western European cities have been inhabited, but despite all of this, there is a European government that is concerned about the shadow of the terror monster they have played a role in fighting the separatist and destructive terrorist organizations that are attacking the value and wealth of the Turkish nation and its state. Unfortunately, the PKK and the DHKP-C are still finding it difficult to decide on terrorist organisations, who are the owners of bloody acts. It is also impossible for Turkey to accept such an understanding and approach, of course. Today, the Western world, particularly the European Union's administration, faces a major test of consistency and intimacy in the fight against terrorism. This test is also an indication of how friendly and ally they perceive Turkey. In such a framework, international terrorism is also necessary to fight the resources and problems that feed it, and to develop joint policies. The fight against international terrorism will also be more effective and more effective when it is waged based on basic values such as international law and human rights. For this fight to succeed, the European Union must primarily respect the basic principle of equality and cooperation of the nations. He must cease to mock Turkey by continuing his hypocritical and unprincipled attitudes, first to present all things by saying, "I am sincere in the intimacy test." In fact, there's a story, the story of the newborn rabbit and the snake. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll tell you in chapter two, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0168par0070	Tell me your story next time. Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "30 days from now" in Article (2) of Article 20 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278 will be changed to "one month later." Cemal Okan Yüksel (Eskişehir) and his friends Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0169par0078	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0168par0079	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0170par0080	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0168par0081	İstanbul MP Gibraltar Özdemir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0171par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the 20th Article of the Common Law Bill 278, and I salute your grand delegation. There were only three or five members of the ruling party at the time we discussed the problems with our education system and the genome we gave to the Minister of National Education yesterday. I made a share of this insensitivity. Then Mr. Turan, vice president of the ruling party group, said: "Why should they listen to long and boring talks? Five genes in a week so the law doesn't pass... Dear MPs, the main duty of this great parliament and the main opposition party, which is the legislature, is to question and oversee the government, the administration, the government, and the power. But more importantly, valuable lawmakers, especially our lawmakers from the ruling party, are no more important than discussing and questioning the education system in which our children's future, protection and abuse are being discussed in this supreme Assembly, and when you're in power, you're disemboweled. That answer has once again revealed your view of children, of education, and your mental state. The Grand Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who saw the children as the future of our country, gave them our national holiday as an expression of his trust and love for them on April 23rd. Four years before the 100th anniversary of the opening of our assembly, the picture is not bright on its 96th anniversary, in the field of education, and in providing our children with a healthy and hopeful future. The figures the Minister set out to defend himself and the Ministry yesterday could not cover the fact that we had a mediocre educational system and the existence of our children who were not qualified. In his speech, he said Turkey is one of the few countries that have been constantly making progress in the PISA application conducted by the OECD. Is it a success that we were first ranked 45th among 65 countries on the PISA test that we took in 2003? In the field of mathematics, in 2003, we ranked 35th among 40 countries, while according to the latest data, we ranked 45th out of 65 countries. Dear lawmakers, is this the rise in international rankings? Look, dear lawmakers, I'm going to continue to share some numbers with you. Our education system has been suspended from the principles of modern education, based on secular, scientific, and gender equality in recent years, and our education system has become increasingly chaotic because of wrong educational policies. The ministry has again and again raised social gender discrimination through schools through the practice of raising religious generations and harem-forming to pledge allegiance to power under any circumstances. According to the Ministry of National Education data, 97.4 per cent of those who are unable to continue their education due to early marriage and engagement are female students. The number one cause of death for young girls between the ages of 15 and 19 is the problems caused by pregnancy and childbirth. The 5-year-old schooling rate was reduced from 67 per cent to 53.8 per cent, along with the education system adopted in 2013. Again, according to the OECD report, Turkey is ranked in the world's 102th and 103rd place in elementary school. According to the same report, 50 per cent of children working as farm workers under the age of 18 have left school, 57 per cent do not attend school regularly. And it is estimated that there are some 181,000 children's brides in Turkey. Dear MPs, the child will come; the child is hope; the child is change; the child is regeneration. Every child is a holiday on its own. With that understanding, for the first time in the world, we proudly celebrate April 23rd as Children's Day in our country. And most importantly, we will celebrate a real Day of Children's Day, where we can raise all our children as free individuals with a quality education system that we can prepare for the modern and modern world, and most importantly, we can protect all our children, and we will celebrate our national holidays in the rule of the Republican People's Party. Dear MPs, with these thoughts, the security of our democracy and our independence celebrates the 96th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I lovingly embrace all our children. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0172par0096	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0173par0097	I have the right to answer, Mr. President, but I'm not. I pay my respects to the lady.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0172par0098	I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0174par0099	Proposal request...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0172par0100	I'll take a vote.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0174par0101	We have a request.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0172par0102	Did you request a word?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0174par0103	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0172par0104	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0174par0107	Mr. President, thank you. The court has just ruled the release of four arrested academics. This, indeed, is a decision we've been waiting for that will save Turkey from this great disgrace. Unfortunately, I don't agree with you during the 14 years of AKP power, but I can even give my life to give you your ideas freely. We are behind what Voltaire said two hundred and fifty years ago. Fortunately, there were judges in Ankara recently and in Istanbul today, as well as in Ankara, which have led Turkey to two hundred and fifty years behind the age in the universal freedom of thought, which requires that it be expressed, even if it is the most contrary thought, and should not be responsible for it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0175par0112	Yes, the same judge, the arresting judge, the same judges.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0176par0113	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0177par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, yes, today's release of academics is an important issue in Turkey's history for us. You need to see this. We will not be a party to this crime. The fact that academics are being detained, arrested in Turkey today, because they expressed their views on the terms of peace demands, in fact, today, in a period where international contracts or the European Union's laws of harmony are being discussed was a real disgrace. But today, the release of journalists, academics, the trial without arrest shows a promising process for us. But I'd like to say once again that because of your opinion, politicians, journalists and lawyers are still in prison. I would like to say that those who express this process as a statement of opinion, or as propaganda, are actually expressing their views in front of the judiciary, saying that this process is a freedom of thought and that the obstacles to politics should be eliminated again, I would say that four academics, Esra Mungan, Kıvanç Ersoy, Muzaffer Kaya and Coral Camcı. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0178par0118	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0179par0120	Mr. President, thank you. Four academics were arrested and released after a while. When they were arrested, there was a lot of political speculation that the authorities had them arrested and arrested. Now they've been released. The AK PARTY is still in power. They're singing from here. The man you call the palace is standing right there. The courts are in place.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0180par0122	Is it going to be life? They've already slept as long as they can, and they've done three months for one signature.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0179par0123	So what changed? They were arrested yesterday, released today. I'd like to say that if the AK PARTI government had the attitude that they're supposed to be speculating about, they'd still be in there, or they'd be in a stable situation.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0180par0124	They're gonna do life for a signature?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0179par0125	No.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0180par0126	What do you call Voltaire?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0179par0127	The courts arrested him and eventually released him. It's all a matter of judgment. I'm merely pointing out that there is an example of how inconsistent the political approach in this regard is. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0181par0130	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0182par0131	Mr. President, it could be my place, it could be the podium.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0181par0132	Please state your position, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0182par0133	Okay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0183par0134	He did, so he made a statement, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0181par0135	Mr. Group Vice Presidents speak, when one speaks, there is no question that the other will speak.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0184par0136	There's no such procedure, it's just been invented, it's been unique to this period.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0183par0137	Mr. President, every one of you has made a statement about this.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0184par0138	I mean, being a member of the group is not a privileged position from the MP, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0185par0139	I'm afraid so.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0184par0140	There's no such thing in the Civil Code, let them show it. (AK PARTY) Every visitor comes in, two hours and three hours later, he comes in, and he's in the system, promise me something. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0186par0141	Bravo, Mr. Ramadan.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0185par0142	A group of vice presidents is starting to get into the system before they start talking, just in case another group of vice presidents tells us something.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0184par0143	But it's been a road, Mr. President, because it's been called a group of vice presidents. Corruption has been committed.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0185par0144	Come in, Mr. Special, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0187par0145	No, can we talk about it later, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0188par0146	Mr. Ramadan has cast a spell on the system, sir, to silence the opposition...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0185par0147	We'll listen to your voice. If you'd like to use your loud voice...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0188par0148	Yeah, but this time...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0189par0149	Put him on the record, Mr. Ozgur.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0188par0151	Thank you. Mr. President, for one thing, there's a former vice president on the stand with two members of his own party, Ramadan Can Bey, who's setting up the members of the group, which I don't understand.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0190par0153	He's never done anything like that, he said his mind, he didn't do anything like that.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0191par0154	He's not adjusting, he's inviting you to the Civil Code, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0190par0155	He didn't do it, he didn't do it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0192par0156	Sir, let's just say, as the People's Party of the Republic, that President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Justice and Development Party Group, is the first to point at those academics or to the journalists. If he is arrested after he has said so, they will target these academics and answer to them. When they are arrested, you will receive these criticisms. A signature isn't going to be a life sentence, and now you're taking credit for their release.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0193par0157	We're not making a paye.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0192par0158	If the academics in a country in 2016 have ended up in arrest no matter what opinion they're explaining, it's the y-i-i-i-i-i-i of power! That's it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0194par0162	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 21: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the notice of the person referred to in the 21st article of the International Code of Adli Co-operation on the 278-lines discussed should be changed in the form of those referred to in the article (1). İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Baki Lightning Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the International Adli Co-operation Act on 278 rows be changed to five days in order not to pass the seventh day in the Article (3) of Article 21 of the International Court of Co-operation Act on Criminal Matters. Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Mehmet Gökdağ Selina Doğan Tahsin Tarhan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following changes to Article (3) of Article 21 of the International Adulterative Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278, which are currently being discussed. (3) In the event that the transit pass lasts more than 24 hours and therefore the need for limitation of the freedom of a person may be granted a temporary arrest order by the magistrate to ensure a transit pass through three days. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0195par0187	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0194par0188	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0196par0189	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0194par0190	Mr Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0197par0193	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The group has just made statements regarding the situation of police and soldiers held by the PKK (PKK). In fact, the AKP's government is not simply sacrificing or ignoring military and police in the hands of the PKK. I'd like to bring up another soldier's situation. Look, on September 1, 2015, a soldier named Yusuf Beylem was killed by a shot fired from Syria over soldiers stationed at the zero point of the border at Marty Mehmet Hudut Station near the village of Ardjidlı. In the same case, Private Sefer Taş is injured from the village of Lower Aratan in the District of December of Iğdır. In the same case, ISIS terrorists crossing the border are taking wounded soldiers to Syria. Now, from that day on September 1, 2015, this wounded soldier is in the hands of the Iğdırlı Taş Isil terrorists. Now, we've submitted a question to the Ministry of National Defense on this issue: is this soldier alive? If he is alive, does the Ministry have an initiative or an initiative by the National Intelligence Agency? Again, in our talks with the military family, neither the National Ministry of Defence nor the General Staff family have been given any information about their children so far. Government officials do not inform the family of whether their children are alive or if they have an initiative in this matter, but the Russian news agency Sputnik has detailed information about the military. According to the Sputnik news portal, ISIS will release Sefer Taş. Such a claim was placed in the Sputnik news agency. We've asked questions about that, and there's no answer to our motion from the National Department of Defense again. Now, there's been another report recently about the soldier at the ZER News news agency. A claim has been made that his pictures will be published in a magazine called Konstantiniyye, a magazine recently controlled by ISIS terrorists, where the kidnapped soldier was in a prison in Rakka. Now, my dear friends, our group vice president has just explained. Unfortunately, there was no commission, no effort to rescue these soldiers despite all the efforts of our party and the efforts of the police and soldiers held by this PKK, but there was no improvement, no effort to the fate of this soldier who was in the hands of ISIS. However, this soldier's family, his father, has delivered his child safely to the state under the mandatory military, and while he is on guard at the border, a friend of his isil has been killed by terrorists while he himself has been injured. More than eight months have passed, is this soldier still alive, alive, is the news on these news sites true? At least it's a conscientious duty to convey information to the family of the soldier, even though there are no public statements in this area. Once again, I'm calling on the Ministry of National Defense: please make a statement to the public and to the family regarding the fate of the military, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0198par0199	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the International Adli Co-operation Act on 278 rows be changed to five days in order not to pass the seventh day in the Article (3) of Article 21 of the International Court of Co-operation Act on Criminal Matters. Mehmet Gökdağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0199par0206	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0198par0207	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0200par0208	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0198par0209	Adana MP Elif Doğan Türkmen will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Doğan Türkmen.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0201par0212	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, tomorrow is April 23rd, a holiday for our children, but there are also young people in this country. On April 18th, I gave Mr. Prime Minister a motion to ask him if he would extend the length of the OSF on our young people who have passed their application period for the LYS exam. I haven't gotten a response yet, but I've been on the phone with the head of the OSS, and he told me that we're looking at this institutionally. And when I told him that he was doing some extensions in 2012, he said, "Yes, but we're not going to do it anymore." I also said that I care about institutionalization, but that many of the hundreds, thousands of young people in this country have put in a serious effort to cut their parents' bread, maybe vaccinate them into colleges, and that these children will be left behind for a year, and that it will be a big problem for the families, and I turned off the phone, but I saw today that the OSD has extended their application period to lyspresence in some eastern and southeast provinces by May 3rd. Now, I want to ask you here. First of all, I find the extension of the length of the LYS in the east and southeast is positive, and I want to thank our head of the OSI here, but why is it not recognized for our young people living in the Mediterranean region, in the Black Sea region, in the Aegean region, and in the region of Thrace, who can't apply to the OSYM? Do we have to judge our young people separately according to their localities? I'd like to address Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President of the CSI: Please extend your application period for the East and the Southeastern LYS. Otherwise, our young people who live in other areas that have missed their time will think: " Are we the black children of this country? ▪ We need to erase that thought from the minds of our young people as soon as possible. So, I'd like to read you some messages sent to my side, which came today. ▪ Why do Lys applications only open for the East? Why don't we get a chance like this? Are we not the future of this country? Another message: We are very pleased with your decision, but our joy is only in the east. Please read another message again for all of Turkey: we want you to take care of your young ones, not just in the east. Tomorrow is April 23rd. Today's kids are tomorrow's boys. I'd like to call once more. We're all parents, we have to empathize. Mr. Prime Minister, extend the deadline for our young people who have missed their application time in other parts of the East, otherwise the consequences of our youth will be upon you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0202par0218	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the notice of the person referred to in the 21st article of the International Code of Adli Co-operation on the 278-lines discussed should be changed in the form of those referred to in the article (1). Erkan Haberal (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0203par0225	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0202par0226	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0204par0227	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0202par0228	Ankara MP Erkan Haberal will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Haberal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] You left it unfinished, you had a story.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0205par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. I left it half done, so I'll start with my joke. The European Union, we called it intimacy, we called it a test of capitulation, and we told it what the European Union is: there's a story of a newborn rabbit and a snake. They meet rabbits and snakes while their eyes are still open, and they touch each other to know who they are. The snake touches the rabbit, you have warm fur, you have mustaches, you have long ears, you must be a rabbit. The rabbit that touches the snake with its claws says, "You're slippery, you crawl on the ground, you have a tongue with a fork, you have no spine, you must be the European Union." You can adapt it to anything. In the eyes of the European Union, the National Movement Party, it's been like this before, it's the same today. Dear lawmakers, terrorism has no religion, nationality, territory and country. Terrorist acts are shameful, and below is an act of aggression. Actions against human rights of life and existence are a massacre, a crime of humanity and shame. Political struggle and means are completely different from violence and violence. In this regard, terrorism is not a political activity, it is a shameful method without legitimacy, without moral value. The terrorist is the collective name of human-hating villains. But when? When he touches the European Union. Thus, the size of terrorist organisations and the nature of the fields of action will not change the reality of terrorism. Seeing terrorism as an instrument of international politics means making terrorism international and spreading murders. Because terrorism is a worldwide threat to human life and an act of destruction, there is a need to establish a political, legal and practical basis for terrorism. The international community must enforce sanctions against countries supporting terrorism, declare terrorist criminals as criminals of humanity, and also be tried for these actions for crimes committed against all but individual crimes against humanity. The European Union's tainted and embarrassing record in this area has its beginnings. Members of the European Union, acting as spokesman for the political demands of the PKK terror organization under the Copenhagen Criters and European norms, have welcomed PKK administrators and militants wanted by red bulletin. They've taken them under official protection so that they can operate freely on their own land. Al-Qaeda and other foreign terrorist organisations, who exercise their harsh measures against their militants without hesitation, cut their financial resources, cut off their organisation and their activities, have not shown the same determination about the PKK, only by returning a few militants, for show. The executive staff of PKK and other terrorist organisations from Turkey has been under official protection in the European Union for many years, and their broadcast organs are openly promoting terrorism in the environment of freedom provided by Copenhagen Criters and EU norms. Only the embarrassing decision made by the Belgian appeal court on the DHKP-C and the Shabbanci assassination of the defendants was an example of the ugly face of Europe. They treated their country like a terrorist when all the terrorists who committed all the acts that turned our country into a pool of blood. And today, if you'll excuse me, I'm actually going to make a toast. I think it's important for the European Union to fight terrorism. Mr. President, I have 30 seconds from yesterday.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0206par0238	Excuse me?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0205par0239	I've got 30 seconds from yesterday, which reminds me.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0206par0240	I don't remember anything like that.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0205par0241	It's like a drunk hugging a lamppost of the European Union...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0207par0243	Sir, he's telling a joke.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0206par0244	Mr. Haberal, another time. You always end up telling jokes like this, you stay another time. Let's leave that to another item.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0205par0245	Sir, that's what they taught me. Mr. President, that's what they taught me, so split it up.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0206par0246	Thank you, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0205par0247	Sir, I said it's a kind of a drinking-man metaphor that best plays the subject. The fact that the European Union cooperates in the fight against terrorism is like a drunk hugging a lamppost, not for enlightenment, but for survival. The European Union is also surrounded by Turkey to survive. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0206par0250	Thank you, Mr. Haberal. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 22: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "at least four months" in Article 22 of the International Adli Co-operation Act on Article 278 is changed to "at least three months." Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Tahsin Tarhan Selina Doğan Mehmet Gökdağ Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "for a crime committed in our country" be added to the second joke of Article 22 of the International Adulteration Act on Criminal Issues 278. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Kamil Aydın Open your mind, Haluk Ayhan Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of the International Court of Criminal Co-operation Act (3) be removed from the text of the clause (c) in the criminal matters that are being discussed. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Mizgin Irgat Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0208par0275	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0206par0276	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0209par0277	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0206par0278	Mr. Mizgin Irgat of Bitlis will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0210par0281	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on the 22nd article of the bill on behalf of my group. Article 22 of the bill contains an exception. As we say for every bill, exceptions are actually the most problematic area of these laws, because it's not very clear what is meant by exceptions, what is intended, what is intended; therefore, the possibility of national security here and international relations being damaged is not clear. What are we talking about here? It is clear here that politics has been given the authority to intervene in the judiciary. We consider the exception here to be a dangerous and clear statement of intervention, as we have expressed in other exceptions. Today, I honor the establishment of a newspaper called Kurdistan, which had to be founded in Cairo about 18 years ago, and everyone who had lost their life in order to speak the truth and the truth in journalism, who had not left the truth to this day. I want to remember here the Ape Moseses, and the Farhadites, and the Gurbettelli Erbassites, for I will not pass by the remembrance of these people who are fighting against them, at the cost of their lives, and at the cost of their prisons. Of course, after the Kurdistan newspaper, the history of journalism continues in Turkey, with a lot of dark files and pressure. Our motion on this matter has been denied in the morning, but we know very well that these facts must be revealed. Six closed newspapers, bombed newspaper buildings, journalists who lost their lives, Metin Gökpes, Ferhat Heights, our people have not forgotten. So despite all the pressure, I would like to remember from here all the journalists who, despite all the detentions, continued their profession. Today, we're discussing a bill of justice. I've been listening to the speeches all morning, yes, today the Supreme Court has made a historic decision, explaining its decision on Ergenekon. He broke the entire process of the file, the procedure, and basically. He voiced that the files were done with a series of irregularities, from the phase of the investigation to the stage of the trial, saying that the evidence was collected in violation of the law, and therefore there was no organisation. While praising this decision, the speakers concluded their speech at the same time without criticizing the TK files, which were conducted by the same judges and prosecutors in the same courts. However, hundreds of people who lived, lived, and were victims of these Ergenekon files were separated from their families in prison under the name of TK and went through a very stressful process. So everything you've said here on the stand -- yes, Mr. Balbay, right in front of me -- we've been through all that pain together, actually. In Bakırköy, in Silivri, in many parts of Turkey, politicians, lawyers who work as lawyers, journalists who work as lawyers were detained and journalists who were working as journalists are still under arrest and their cases are still under arrest, and the worst of it is that the judiciary should be held equally equally for everyone, while the discrimination decisions and lawsuits continue, while the Supreme Court has stepped in the judiciary by declaring the PKK as a terrorist organization ▪ and is currently serving hundreds of years in cases which have gone wrongly, unlawfully. So, we think that the same criticism should be done for the ACK files. The power of that period, prosecutors, judges at that time, voiced that they were wronged in seeking justice today. We know that those who carry out the same operations today, those who want to suppress the same arrests, detention fairs, politics, will face the same judgment tomorrow.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0211par0288	Thank you, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0210par0289	I think it's fundamentally necessary to respect freedom and basic rights and human rights that should be a rule of this House. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0211par0292	Thank you. The motion...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0212par0294	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0211par0295	Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0212par0296	The speaker has made an assessment of me as well. Excuse me...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0213par0297	Yeah, yeah, he mentioned the ACK.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0211par0298	What did he say about teasing?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0212par0299	Mr. Balbay is standing right in front of me, and he didn't mention some of our cases in his speech. He said, "The ACK case...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0211par0300	It's not a tease, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0212par0301	But...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0211par0302	I'll give you my word on your position for a minute.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0212par0303	If you'll just excuse me for two minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0211par0304	But it's not a tease, Mr. Balbay, please.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0214par0305	Mr. President, we can't judge it as collusion.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0215par0306	We can't judge it as a challenge, it's true!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0214par0307	Let's see, Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0216par0308	Yes, I have the authority to evaluate this, please, Mr. Free Private.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0214par0309	Mr. President, but I have a duty like that. You'll appreciate it. Now, the speaker says that if he is listened carefully, Mr. Balbay says that he has suffered his own sacrifices, but he ignores another case.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0217par0311	Something I'm very sensitive about.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0214par0312	That's what he's most sensitive about. And we owe Mr. Balbay....about three years on this bench, sir, if you appreciate that.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0218par0313	Okay. Two minutes. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The last sentence was important. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0219par0319	Mr. President, members, I salute you all again. When I left Sincan Prison on December 9, 2013, I came out of prison not by producing hatred and hatred but by producing futures. I want the law for everyone, and open these doors. I told you so, and I still think so. I've just spoken to all of you in the five-minute period of speaking, and some of the lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party are right here, but in essence, they're right. For the evaluation of our fellow HDP member, I will also say that one of the first cases I went to after I got out of prison was the KCK case; Mr. Demirtaş was there. I also opposed the unlawfulities of that case. I actually read the indictment on that case. First there are freedoms in the indictment. It's called "the AKP MPs" and "you can organize," "you can start an association." A lot of people applied for it, started associations, even engaged in activities, and then they were considered acts of terror. It's really a cathartic lack of law. I've told them about it as long as it takes. I might have to mention it during the time set aside for me, and I'm underlineing that. Finally, I'd like to stress, members of lawmakers, that the Ergenekon case -- I'm really stressing -- wasn't a coup case. If the coups are to be investigated, I'm in. And my last word is that even the worst assembly is better than a closed assembly. And I'm stressing this assessment. In this case, in the coming days of Ergenekon, I'd really like to say no to all the illegalities. He's happy to have the release of four academics, but at least freedom is better than anything. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0220par0323	Thank you, Mr. Balbay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration to the 22nd article of the International Criminal Co-operation Act of the International Adulteration Act on Article 278, which is currently being held in the country for a crime committed in our country. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0221par0333	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0220par0334	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0222par0335	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0220par0336	İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0223par0339	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 22 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278. As I begin my speech, I salute the precious MPs who have declared our national will to the world ninety-six years ago, including Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and our founding Assembly members, who have brought us to this day with respect, gratitude, and mercy. I congratulate our children and our nation on April 23rd, the Day of Sovereignty and Children. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is a unique manifestation of love and respect for the Turkish nation, proof of loyalty to the national will, commitment to national sovereignty and the importance of legitimacy. On April 23, 1920, our nation showed that it would personally direct its future. In the words of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the Grand National Assembly is gathered to defend our right to live against those who wish not to let us live. (April 23, 1920 is a message and a consistent stand against colonial forces, which have been burning for centuries, aimed at the invasion of their homeland. The Turkish nation defied slavery through the Turkish Grand National Assembly and rebelled against captivity. As a matter of fact, Sinop Mebusu, who made the opening speech of the first Assembly, said to the Sheriff, "Our nation, who has been determined to live in full independence, who have lived forever free and independent, has firmly and decisively rejected this captivity and has formed its great Parliament, starting to gather its representatives." His words clearly reveal that understanding. On this occasion, I wish that in the 21st century, there would still be an end to hunger and violence in a world where children died because of hunger, poverty, terror, internal conflict, and uncontrollable migration, real and lasting peace, peace, happiness, and brotherhood. Dear lawmakers, the International Bill of Adjective Co-operation in Criminal Matters is a provision that encodes the provisions that were previously passed in our internal law with bilateral agreements and a number of laws. It includes specific issues and some concepts that will enter our law for the first time. As a result of advances in technology and communication today, the borders between countries are almost lifted, and citizens of many states have begun to live, work, and work in other countries. As a result of these developments, crime has also become global. Especially in organized crime, it is known that members of the organization have fled to other countries after committing crimes. Today, there are terrorist organizations from his home country that are damaging another country. The countries with internal unrest and conflicts create a suitable environment for these terrorist organisations. Turkey faces significant risks in this regard, as a result of its geography and wrong policies. Thus, like all states, Turkey must focus on its international co-operation in the fight against bordered organised crime. As a matter of fact, Turkey has signed several bilateral and multilateral agreements with other countries in the field of international judicial co-operation. Article 22 of the bill, which we discussed, stated that the request and conditions for the extradition of a person in a foreign country to Turkey may be arranged, that the judicial authorities may request the extradition of those present in the foreign country for the investigation or prosecution or for the execution of the sentence. It has stated that the extradition of the perpetrator due to a year or more prison sentences may be requested, and that for the execution of a convicted sentence, there should be at least one or more months in prison. The article states that a person will be applied for extradition to Turkey for a crime committed in our country. While it is understandable from the substance content of this expression that is not included in the matter, we consider that it would be appropriate to remove the hesitations that could be born in the application to be included in the same article text. I expect you to support our motion, which we believe will contribute to the recovery of a lack in this respect, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0224par0349	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "at least four months" in Article 22 of the International Adli Co-operation Act on Article 278 is changed to "at least three months." Senal Sarıhan (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0225par0356	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0224par0357	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0226par0358	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0224par0359	Ankara MP Senal Sarıhan will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0227par0362	Dear friends, dear President, dear Clerk members and valued members of our House, I would like to speak to you about a substance of this matter. There's a Sivas case going on for 23 years that all of our friends here might remember, the Sivas massacre. This case is based on a case that caused 35 people to burn to death. We have a case that has gone abroad in connection with the case, and the number has been determined by the Ministry of Justice, and has been described as the 15 people in which we are present, some of whom have been convicted, and some of whom have been in progress. You all know how much this file deprives the family of their mothers, fathers, children, what a pain it is, what a pain it is to have a human being burned to death. It burns your hearts out, and what is right in the face of such an event, at least puts out this fire? It's a fair trial. I'm not saying that people who have been determined to play an active role in the execution of this fire -- not three -- rather than the death penalty -- after the removal of the execution, we have not been able to see the crimes in a stable manner, with solid evidence, with police reports, with the governor's reports, with the court's rulings, with the fact that they have been active in the execution of this fire in the past twenty-two years -- because in 1994, the trial has been overturned. This is a matter that corresponds to exactly that. Either there's gonna be a prosecution, an investigation, or there's gonna be a conviction. The number I'm talking about is a firm sentence, and there's prosecution and investigation. The prosecution and the investigation are a matter of doubt, of course, we don't know if these people will ever be punished, but if we have a verdict approved by the Supreme Court, we need to make sure that these defendants, these convicts, these prisoners, are now being extradited. Twenty-two years we haven't been able to get this refund. Now, I also have serious concerns as to whether this legal arrangement will allow us to make this new arrangement. Why do I have such concerns? Because there is an arrangement in this (b) or (c) joke that, if, in terms of domestic law, in Turkey -- let me put it bluntly -- that any confusion, any national issue, or that the extradition of people who are not entirely fit to be returned to the Ministry of Justice according to their assessments, will not be returned to them, and then it completely eliminates my hope that these individuals will not be extradited. Yeah, I know, it's a reciprocity thing, so there's this kind of arrangement for other countries. However, we need to ensure that this is an assessment of law, universal law, in any case -- at the level of justice or other ministries, without authorising a group at the level of the Council of Ministers -- to comply with the decision of the judiciary. Judicial decisions, the implementation of judicial decisions in accordance with the law, in a country, trust in justice, trust in the future. It is my belief that the establishment of this trust here is not an arrangement that can afford the legal arrangement, the truth, and the future. Dear friends, other than that, another friend of ours has just said that universal law or international contracts are not worth much, and we shouldn't be trying to fit ourselves into it. I don't agree with that. I think it's a responsibility for all humanity to apply law documents that have been created in all countries, where humanity exists, where justice is sought, and where justice is fought for, as a product of humanity. Yours truly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0228par0369	Mr. Sarihan, thank you. Mr. Secretary has a statement to make. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0229par0374	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I feel the need to make a statement regarding your honor's speech. Because the information was shared a little differently. The issue mentioned in Article 22 shall regulate Turkey's extradition demands and conditions. Now, this Sivas case -- all of the defendants -- all of the people outside the country -- has been asked by Turkey; I will say a few: Vahit Kaynar was asked by Poland, rejected because he was not in Poland; then Germany was asked, and Germany refused to extradite the request for the extradition, because there was insufficient doubt. Ethem Ceylan has again been asked to extradite Germany, and Germany has rejected the request for extradition due to the fact that the person has been sentenced to aggravated life imprisonment. Again, the Adem Flag rejected his request, Germany, on the grounds that the military judge participated in the decision, and that it was contrary to the principle of fair judgment according to the ECHM. Adem Ağbektaş has refused because Germany has granted refugee status. Don't let me read all the other names. Now, no one here has the right to condemn Turkey. Turkey has demanded the extradition of all of them, but it is a matter of the highest interest in whether or not to return them. They have responded negatively to our demands on this matter, but the red bulletin remains relevant. In this article, Turkey may not ask for extradition if Turkey's national security or international relations are likely to be damaged, but it does not apply one during the 90-year period of the republic. It's not the right perception, as if they weren't meant to be. And I don't think there will be an easy need after that because Turkey will always demand the right of sovereignty for its citizens; if it has been judged and punished for its punishment, it has tried every means for every citizen to be executed in Turkey -- legally -- then it will try again. I'd like to respectfully inform the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0230par0378	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0231par0379	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0230par0380	Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0231par0381	As I wanted to condemn Turkey, Mr. Secretary has made a claim. If you'll excuse me, I'll give you two minutes off the stand... because I'm presenting information on a 23-year-old case. I want a promise.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0230par0382	You've worked so hard on that case. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0232par0388	Dear friends, as long as I've been a lawyer, as long as I've been a member of the law, I've basically fought for my country to walk through a law based on human rights. The only thing that would explain our country's reputation is the conduct of a law that respects human rights. In the case of the Sivas massacre, I want to remind you that the councilman, Jafar Erçakmak, has been called for years, called from Sivas, asked from France, Germany, no. And the German government and the French government -- look, these are important information -- they didn't return it because they had the missing information and documents. After all, Jafar Erçakmak came to Sivas, with his supposedly dead coffin, and with his funeral, and was buried in Sivas. Now, did this person really come from abroad in a coffin, how did he come from abroad? Even people can barely get a passport and fly out of here? Who let this happen? What made you turn a blind eye? We went, we dug up his grave, and we had to find out if it was him. It's reality. The Vahit Kaynar our friend mentioned was not returned because he was not asked to be extradited during his legal time. Of course these things need to be fixed. At the moment, the three cases are being filed, and there are numerous correspondence about the three of them being brought in from abroad. Is this our negligence, the negligence of the Turkish authorities, or the negligence of the German authorities we demand? That's why I just referred to international contracts and agreements. The fact that these laws are truly human rights... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the laws of justice must be respected by all states. The problem doesn't belong to the state of A, B, C. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0233par0393	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0234par0394	I'll make one more statement.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0233par0395	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0234par0398	Jafar Erçakmak has issued a renewed red bulletin in 2005 on charges of violating Article 3713 of Anti-Terror Law and Article 309 of the Turkish Penal Code (A-1766/10-2005) on the violation of Constitutional Law on the person whose name has been mentioned, so Turkey has issued a red bulletin concerning this, and INTERPOL has registered this bulletin, and has given a number of numbers, and has been renewed. The red bulletin will be about people whose address is unknown. The return address is taken out of the list of people who are already in contact with it. The lack of information on Jafar Erçakmak. Turkey's request is not rejected because it was given a document; it cannot be found, so it has not been given any such answer, and there is no answer. He later passed away. Jafar Erkakmak and the file fell.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0235par0399	Mr. Secretary, we have answers from your ministers in our file.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0234par0400	There's no missing information, no documents, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0235par0401	We have answers from your ministers in our file.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0234par0402	There's no missing information, no documents, no red notice.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0236par0403	Congressmans, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second part includes Articles 23 through 38. In the second chapter, Mr Mehmet Parsak, MP of Afyonkarahisar on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0237par0415	I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the second part of the International Adli Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278. On this occasion...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0238par0416	Mr. President, alert the MPs so they don't make any noise.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0236par0417	Mr. Parsak, I'll restart your time. Congressmans, if you're coming out of the General Assembly, please do this in silence, there's a speaker on the stand. Rebooting your time, Mr. Parsak. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0239par0421	Sir, let them come out and we'll talk about it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0240par0422	Thank you, Mr. President. I hereby salute you and the Veterans' Council. Honourable lawmakers, in the second part of the bill, the age of investigation, prosecution and execution; post-mortem procedures, transfers of prisoners from our country or our country, and expenses are organised. With the end of the Cold War and the subsequent globalisation of globalization, concepts such as international law and international co-operation quickly became important to all mankind. No matter where it is in the world, it is clear that international judicial cooperation is mandatory for the investigation, trial, and punishment of all crimes and criminals. As I have just stated, international judicial cooperation is inevitable as I speak, but when we look at this bill in general, unfortunately, there are significant shortcomings at every point. As it is known, there are four kinds of rules in law. These are commandary rules, complementary rules, interpretive rules and defining rules. In view of this framework, it is unacceptable for the Minister of Justice to be granted broad discretion in each article. It is more of an arbitrary and political approach than legal and fair to the Minister of Justice in implementing our international law, when it comes to our country's security and reputation. This suggests that more political and personal interests are being considered than the country's interests. Another important flaw in the bill is who will be in charge of demanding the transfer of the execution. The bill, however embezzled, gave this authority to the state that ruled the sentence. However, it would be helpful to include the article on the subject of the ruling in order to prevent any hesitations that may arise in the later stages. In the European Convention on Transporting and Transferring of Prisoners, it has been stated that a transfer could be demanded by the state, after it was stated that the prisoner would want to be transferred. Therefore, the bill must be made clear about the demands. Similarly, the 30th article of the bill, which regulates the transfer of prisoners to Turkey, is considered a requirement for a convicted person in a foreign state to be a Turkish citizen for transport to Turkey or for strong social ties with Turkey. As a matter of fact, it is considered necessary for a convicted person in Turkey to be a citizen of the state where the prisoner will be transferred to the foreign state or to have strong social ties with this state. In contrast, a transfer of a prisoner to the European Convention on Transport of the Prisoners can only be carried out if it is the nationality of the state that carries out the sentence. In this respect, the declaration of "strong social ties" in the bill must be made in line with the international contract, the exact processing of the issue of belonging to relevant substances and the emphasis on citizenship. Dear lawmakers, when millions of Turks are living away from their homes in bitter countries like Germany, Belgium, we need to realize that the bill is also important to our expats. As the National Movement Party, our election statement stated that we would be able to lift structural and legal obstacles in front of the access to justice of our citizens living abroad with a weight on international co-operation opportunities. Well, given the size of our citizens in Turkey's access to justice and their trust in justice, unfortunately, it is not our turn to talk about the situation of our citizens in Europe. It is necessary for foreigners who have committed crimes against our country to be punished accordingly, as well as to ensure that the rights of our citizens who have been convicted of any crime abroad will not be overcome. At this point, I'd also like to remind you that we live as a country, and we're all left with a scar on our conscience. As it is known, DHKP-C member Fehriye Erdal killed Özdemir Sabancı in January 1996, along with ToyotaSA General Manager Haluk Eysin and his secretary Nilgün Hasefe. The terrorist, who was found to have fled to Belgium after the murder, was caught with a false passport when a fire broke out in his 1999 home, and was later tried and released in 2000 after a year in prison. After Fihriye Erdal was released from prison, so-called missing, even the Turkish Republic knew where he was, the government of Belgium could never find him. There is no doubt that the power must take the necessary measures so that our country will never face such and similar treatments again. Members of parliament, another objectionable aspect of the bill is the sentence of the criminal court in case a general or special pardon is accepted in the state or in Turkey, which is included in Article 27 of the bill. With this sentence, the sentence could be reduced or eliminated by demanding extradition of those convicted in a foreign state to Turkey, claiming a new cause and situation. The bill has a different meaning when it comes to examples such as Reza Zarrab, who are on Turkey's agenda for money laundering and corruption, and who are being tried outside the country, especially in recent days. Dear lawmakers, in this bill, we would like to see regulations that would enable the extradition of separatists, terrorists, for example, who were not persistently extradited to our country. In this bill, we would like to see materials that would prevent the separatist terrorist organization from being nested and supported in some countries, protecting our country's international reputation. In this bill, we would like to see articles of accountability from those who have betrayed our country and our nation, who have given up their right to an orphan. I regret to inform you that this bill has forgotten to defend our rights, aside from such sensibilities, and is far from overcoming the issues we're having on the subject. Dear lawmakers, this bill is hereby issued as part of the ongoing process of visa liberalisation dialogue between our country and the European Union as part of a special legal arrangement in the field of international judicial co-operation on criminal matters that are part of the road map of visa liberalisation. Of course, we will not object to the citizens of the Republic of Turkey traveling to the European Union without visas, but the laws brought to parliament carelessly as a result of what authorities call "the Kayseri negotiation" are binding on our country at every point. As these arrangements are being implemented tomorrow, the problems that are likely to occur here are not in a dimension that will be expressed within ten minutes. International judicial cooperation must be within the framework of international equality and fundamental principles. The judicial cooperation of the Minister of Justice, the initiative of one person, will, of course, lead to great difficulties in the future. Given the situation the Minister of Justice has brought in the current justice system in our country, I hardly think anyone will have any doubts about the outcome of international judicial co-operation. If Turkey's reputation and the real demand for international judicial co-operation are to be carried out, this bill must be reconsidered and its objectionable substances must be regulated. No, your intention is to please Europe, to pass this law through the Parliament." And to carry out your order, as you have done before, the bag will be added to a bill similar to your waste of the law. Dear lawmakers, the National Movement Party has demonstrated its constructive approach to any law proposal that could help our problems in the sense of responsible opposition. But, Ali, with a breaking head, it's almost like ignoring the will of the nation to follow the laws of this great House. It does no one and especially the Turkish nation any good to debate the incomplete bill here until the morning and pass it through Parliament with a chair democracy. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we are prepared to stop and perform any work in the interest of the Turkish nation without rest. In these and similar plans, which do not take the interests of the Turkish nation at the center, we will continue to stand up to you until morning as a mission our nation has given us. As I end my words, I salute the High Council and you once again.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit03spe0241par0438	Thank you. I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0241par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're continuing negotiations on chapter two. Diyarbakır MP İdris Bauken will now speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0242par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to start by saluting you, your valued deputies, and the empty chairs that weigh heavy. First of all, when the General Assembly opened today, we stated that we had a shameful day in terms of Turkey's democracy, that journalists in the person of Can Dündar and Erdem Gül have been brought to trial by the press profession, and that freedom of thought and expression in the academics is in the courtrooms today. Having happy news from both cases shows, of course, that in this country, a democracy still exists as a hope from the bottom to the bottom. We hope that in the coming days, this is a time when all antidemocratic practices are in the way of democracy, and it's catching up on current developments. Of course, this bill was brought here as an arrangement for the Ministry of Justice under visa exemption in the European Union integration process. However, now that the judiciary is political in Turkey, I think the lawmakers of the ruling party have accepted a great deal of it. The objections to our criticisms of that direction are no longer spoken of from this stand. I mean, I don't want to go down too many times, but we have the judge, the living, the execution, all of it. The boy's ours, the girl's ours. The exits make it clear that the ruling party MPs now accept a fact about it, and they're beginning to express it to the public in a reckless way. The last trial of this political trial was related to the Ergenekon case. The Ergenekon case, if you remember, began on 12 June 2007, and there was a partnership between the AKP and the congregation at that time, and there were bombs discovered in Istanbul, which had revealed a large plan of coup with the captured weapons, clearing Turkey's intestines, removing the sense of custody over civil politics, both the Prime Minister of the period and the ruling authorities repeatedly expressed. I even have the headlines from that period. I, of course, didn't raise them all one by one, but, look, the same headlines were made in the media, almost like they were served in one place today: Here, the 19 coupgers had been served life in life in the state, life in the deep state, life in the quarter, life in life in the state of Ceza, and in the life period of life in the life period, and in the form of power, there were fines in the history of the AKP, and in the case of the AKP, they had been punished in the form of the AKP's capital. However, when the AKP-Cemat partnership is over, AKP has needed new partnerships, the AKP-Ergenekon partnership has begun; rather, the palace-Ergenekon partnership, the palace-Ergenekon partnership has begun. After that, there were a lot of different developments in the case process. At the beginning of the Ergenekon trial, we always said: "The crimes committed by Ergenekon are not really being committed in the east of Fırat. We said there were no major improvements in the process of burning down villages, certain murders, the slaughter of young people in acid pits, the executions in custody and so on, in this case of crimes against humanity that we could list for maybe hours. We have also stated that this investigation has been watered down, and therefore this investigation process is being carried out consciously by a politicalised judiciary, and, as we have come to this very stage today, due to a new partnership, which is the palace-Ergenekon partnership, has decided to break down the Supreme Court Ergenekon case, which we all know about, by bringing in journalists, writers, medical people, scientists, and so on -- and so on -- and so on and so on -- and so on -- and so on -- and so on -- and so on -- and so on -- and so on -- and so on -- and so on -- and so on -- and so on and so forth -- and so on -- and so on and so forth -- and so forth -- and so on and so forth -- and so forth -- and so on and so forth -- and so on and so forth -- and so forth -- and so forth -- and so forth. It is clear that when we were talking about the atrocities of Sur, Cizre, Silvio, we had already stated that a new partnership had begun here and that this partnership had led Turkey to a great disaster, and that there had to be a way out of here. In the cabinet, many ministers within the government have sometimes expressed their dissension with this partnership to us, so let me make that clear to you here. In fact, during the time of the massacre of wounded people in Cizre, civilian university students in the basements, Prime Minister was also involved. The Prime Minister also promised us that those people would definitely be transferred to the hospital. Despite that statement, however, the gladiatoric structure and the Ergenekon partnership in this field had taken instructions from a higher position above the Prime Minister and had failed the Prime Minister's word and signed under that violent painting, which, in the face of history, would be severely judged by the AKP's responsibility. Thus, in such a judicial process today, in such a political system of justice, you are deceived by a number of technical arrangements that will be carried out by international public opinion. If you have a perception like this, you can only deceive yourself here. The Prime Minister of that period, the current President Erdoğan, you know, I'm the prosecutor of this case. Now, after the new partnership, we haven't heard a single sentence from the new case. What about the political prosecutor of this case? Erdogan has not used a single sentence, which gives statements that occupy almost all television screens 24 hours a day on every subject. So we're wondering, since he was the prosecutor of this case, the new partnership that came up -- here, we're expressing from the council bench -- and how does he judge this decision that has come to be based on this new partnership? Interestingly, in all your partnerships, I mean, you need community partnerships, you have Kurds, the revolutionary and democrats in this country, who are always oppressed in the Ergenekon partnership. So nearly 10,000 of our friends were taken to prison in political genocide operations under the name of the KCK case during the congregation. Now in Ergenekon's partnership, serious political genocide operations are under way -- an arrest and detention fair that exceeded that period. In the 1990s, the villages were being burned, and now the new partnership is now being burned in districts, boroughs. A major looting policy is unfortunately being carried out, and on top of all of that, you come out here, and here we are enhancing EU integration laws. You're trying to sell the deception to this society. Like I said, you can only fool yourself. The only thing we have on the European Union right now is a refugee card that we use as an inhuman threat to them. Other than that, Turkey did not meet a single requirement for the European Union's compliance criteria. Anyway, that's the main reason why the report was sent to the cargo immediately. The human rights report from the United States, from the United States, also shows that the battle vortex, which Turkey entered inside and outside, has entered. So I hope the government and the AKP Group will raise voices against this palace-Ergenekon alliance, expressed through these contradictions between Mr. Davutoglu and the palace... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...some of the things in basic politics I wish were discussed louder. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0243par0018	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Gaziantep MP Mehmet Gökdağ will speak. Here you are, Mr. Gökdağ.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0244par0022	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to explain our general thoughts about the second part of the International Adjective Co-operation Act in Criminal matters. I salute you all. Before entering the law, we have just received information that two rocket bullets have been dropped in our Kilis province...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0245par0024	It's not falling, it's attacking.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0244par0025	...two of our citizens have lost their lives, six wounded, and the number of wounded will increase. Dear friends, the Church is a city of our country. Mr. Minister, the precious government is dropping bombs on the church, as if it were somewhere else, but it's a matter of humanity, but in the last few days, bombs are falling on the city of our own country, the church is a city of war, the bombs are back to back; no one's hair is moving, it's like nothing's happening in the country. The church is unclaimed, people are migrating from the Church, they're leaving, but there's no precaution from the government, there's no sound. I offer my condolences to my fellow citizens who have lost their lives, and I ask God's mercy, and I offer my condolences to their relatives, and I pray to our wounded citizens for immediate healing. Dear friends, there are changes in the Grand National Assembly that are based on the conjunctural phenomenon, aside from the necessity for judicial legislation in the content of the bill and proposals presented here under the name of the (judgment package) recently. The drafts and drafts brought in a hurry at the European Union's visa exemption point include many areas and issues, but are being rushed through parliament without doing the work, even though long talks and studies should be done. And the bill we're talking about is a very important bill, dear friends, which requires international cooperation in criminal matters. Now, we've limited such a law to 38 articles. Look, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to press your patience a little bit, and I'm going to mention the name of the international contracts involved in this bill -- the Adli European Convention for Aid in Criminal Affairs, the European Convention for Restitution of Criminals, the Convention for Crimes, the Convention for Crimes on Borderline Delegated Crimes, the Convention for Drugs Against Drug Laws, the Transcrime of Drugs, and the Convention of Anti-Criminals Against Anti-Criminals, the Convention on Crimes Against Drugs, the International Convention on Crimes Against Anti-Commitment of Drugs, the International Convention on Crimes. Dear friends, if we could just make the contracts that deal closely with this bill into a matter of 25 articles. We've brought in a law like that, we've got it in 38. This bill is already made up of 200 articles in its original form. As we didn't do the necessary research, as we didn't do the necessary research on such an important clause that concerns so many contracts, as we didn't do the necessary research, we did something else, we reduced 200 articles to 38, there's no 170. What's it gonna be, 170? Dear friends, these 170 articles have never even been brought to the Commission, they've been kidnapped from Parliament. So, what's it gonna be, 170? The Department of Justice will regulate the 170 articles. Dear friends, one of the requirements for visa liberalisation of the European Union is the adoption of a law on criminal international judicial co-operation, as stated in the basis of the bill. Well, now, that's what we're saying, but how are we supposed to defend a contract in the European Union that doesn't comply with international contracts that don't apply to the content of the provisions there? How do we say we did this for the European Union? It's a bill that doesn't serve the purpose. My dear friends, as it is known, the Constitutional Court is referring to the principle of law regulation in many decisions, while also reviewing the Constitution's 7th article on the rule of law and the 2nd article on the rule of law, which stipulates that the legislative authority belongs to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and cannot be transferred. The authority to punish, a reflection of the Kingdom, is limited to the sovereignty of the state and is not subject to the use of that authority in another state's country. International law does not authorize any state to prosecute another state in its country. Since the prosecution of a state in the field of another state is interfering with the authority of sovereignty, however, if there is an open arrangement with bilateral or multilateral agreements, it can prosecute another state. Some regulations in this direction are part of the Schengen application agreement. The reason for this bill also states that the visa liberalisation of the European Union means that the Schengen application will cover our country with this legal arrangement, which means that the agreement has the possibility of cross-border observation and hot surveillance under certain conditions in the country of that state, by giving up the entity states' sovereignty powers. It is a revelation to us that such important issues are not being brought to the Justice Commission, not being brought to Parliament, but under regulations from the Ministry of Justice. Why should we increase the workload of both the oasis and the Department of Justice for no reason? Isn't that right, look? We'll set it up here, we'll set the frame, we'll set the limit, but the Justice Department can rule on technical matters. It is not possible for the executive body to be given a general and uncertain regulation authority on matters envisioned in the Constitution. The management's authority to regulate is limited, complementary and dependent. Therefore, apart from the separate conditions envisioned in the Constitution, it cannot be authorized to establish a general rule of law in an area not regulated by law. A law authorising the executive body must be set up with basic principles, with the framework drawn, so that it can be in accordance with Article 7 of the Constitution. It is against the rule of law to leave an unrestricted, uncertain, broad area in the arrangement of governance, and it is against the 7th Article of the Constitution. This law is hereby terminated when it goes before the Constitutional Court. Now we're saying this, we're saying this, but what's in you, what's in your mind, what's in your mind, what's in your rule, what's in your sense of governance, it's in here as it is in every field. You're saying that we're going to be arbitrary. You're saying that we're going to take out the 30-point law, we're going to do the 200-point function in our own way. You're saying that tomorrow, when something comes up about Reza Zarrab, we're going to give the document, or we're not going to give it, we're going to determine it. When something else comes up, when you're asked for evidence, when you're asked for a written document, you leave it to the Justice Department, the administration, to the pleasure of it. Dear friends, we say it all the time, we say it again: stop this enjoyment, and don't take this country away from being a state of law. Look, your decisions get broken, they get broken, they get broken. You're enjoying yourself, your decisions are being violated by the Constitutional Court. I don't know if you're upset about these disturbances, and it's none of our business whether you're upset or not, but don't disturb this nation anymore. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0246par0038	Thank you. On behalf of him, Mr. Sabri Ozturk, Congresswoman of Giresun, will speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0247par0043	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the second part of the International Criminal Co-operation Act, in Article 278. I salute the High Council. In the process of accepting our country's full membership to the European Union, especially in the framework of the recent dialogue on visa liberalisation between the European Union and our country, there is a need for the legalisation of the International Adulterity Act on Criminal Matters. International judicial co-operation on criminal issues is mainly covered by judicial aid, extradition of criminals, the age of investigation and prosecution, the age of execution and the transfer of prisoners. Due to the lack of a special law on judicial co-operation in our internal law, the activities in this area are carried out under the regulations of the Ministry, especially under the Turkish Penal Code and Criminal Law Act Act, which is under the rule of law under Article 90 of our Constitution. In addition, our country is in the field of judicial co-operation with the Council of Europe and its basic agreements with the United Nations. However, the fact that the international agreement provisions are not clear enough and that there are differences with our internal law, that there are also gaps in our legislation, that these gaps are filled with generalities, and that there are different practices that are not binding to the judicial authorities. The acceptance of this bill will eliminate this need. The International Adli Co-operation Act on Criminal Matters was drafted as part of the third subcommittee of the Turkish Criminal Justice System Project, the joint project of the European Union and the Council of Europe. As the bill is drafted, the European Convention for Restitution of the Criminals, which is primarily our country's party, and the European Convention No.2. The Lu Protocol, the Mutual Legal Aid in Punishment and the European Convention No. 1. The provisions of the European Convention on the Transcrimination of the Criminal Prosecutions, the European Convention on the Transferment of the Criminals, the Convention on the Transnational Value of the Penal Code and Criminal Trials are based on the drafting of the European Convention. In addition, the European Convention on Restitution of Criminals committed by our country under the European Union's visa liberalisation dialogue is supplemental to 1, 3 and 4. Lu Protocols No. 2 to the European Convention on Legal Aid in Criminal Matters. The provisions of the Substantive Protocol of the Prisoners' Transport with the Protocol of Lu have been reviewed and have not been ignored in the draft work in order to be part of the internal law. In addition, limited regulations in our legislation on judicial cooperation are based. In addition, the Law on Forensic Co-operation by the United Nations has been studied and partially used. The European Court of Human Rights, on the other hand, has taken into account the provisions of international judicial co-operation by the European Court of Human Rights. In the beginning, the bill, which was 216 articles, has been accelerated by the European Union to attribute a great deal of importance to the bill, as soon as our country has made a commitment that the bill would be enforced, and the text has moved on to some acronyms. However, while these acronyms are being made, the fundamental issues organised by the previous draft have been maintained, and have only been simplified in the number of substances and the language used. The bill currently consists of two chapters and 38 articles. The bill begins with general provisions, as in other foreign state laws, and in general provisions, the general foundations for all types of judicial cooperation and especially our ministry's central authority have been issued. The main parts of the bill include judicial aid, extradition, investigation and prosecution period, execution period and transfer of prisoners. Other matters concerning the implementation and implementation of the law are also organised in chapters entitled the different and final provisions. With this bill, the implementation of our country in the field of international judicial cooperation has been brought to fruition in the extradition of criminals, in the age of investigation and prosecution, in the age of execution, in the transfer of provisions. The International Bill of Adminal Co-operation in Criminal Matters has been a provision our country has needed for years, and the implementation of law enforcement will be established in the event of law enforcement, and the legal gap in this area will be filled. I wish the bill to be good for our country, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0248par0050	Mr. Baluken, you're in the system, for word?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0249par0051	I have a request for a statement according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0248par0052	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0249par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we ask the government to inform the General Assembly and the public of the attacks on the province of Kilis, which has been on the border for the past two weeks. We're still dealing with government practice about these attacks that have been going on for two weeks, which has not been reported by the General Assembly since we received a request from the main opposition party. Now, we're getting news from the press that two of our citizens have lost their lives and six of our citizens have been injured in the attacks this evening. I, of course, would like to ask God's mercy on our fallen citizens, his condolences on their families and on all our people and on behalf of the People's Democratic Party. But we have an interesting situation here, Mr. President. So the ISIS attacks in Turkey...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0250par0059	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0249par0060	... ISIS does not take over, and the AKP does not name ISIS attacks from the border. The bomb fell on the church, the bullet fell on the church, and the rocket fell on it. Despite all our warnings, the measure taken by the AKP's government regarding these attacks is surprisingly, attacks on the YPG positions in Rojava, air operations against Kandil, and abstructuring the streets, as recommended by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). I would like to say once again that we condemn this nonsensical approach, that we expect a collective statement from the government to the General Assembly and to the Turkish public regarding the attacks against the Church. In and out, I want to say that he should also give up these approaches that will comfort ISIS. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0250par0062	Thank you. On behalf of him, the last speaker will be Mr. Omar Süha Aldan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Aldan.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0251par0069	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in fact, I'd like to make an assessment this morning regarding an issue brought up in a group proposal, which is the trial of Can Dündar and Erdem Gül. He still has a sense of perception, so this is not a simple journalism activity, it's an act of espionage. I'll repeat, I've made a speech on this bench before. First of all, what Can Dündar and Erdem Gül have done is to issue a report on those trucks called MIT trucks, which means a document in the criminal case file has been published. If this document is a confidential document, we must first assess it, because in order for the act of espionage stated in Article 330 of the Turkish Penal Code to take place, the document must be a state secret document. During a general search, however, there is a report called search and arrest report. Again, by law, for example, the driver driving the truck is a suspect, and that report is signed by the suspect. Thus, it is not legally possible to refer to a document where the unsub was found and even his lawyer was present at the time of the crime as the state secret. With that respect, there is no government secret document, nor is there an act of espionage. However, immediately following this report published in the Cumhuriyet newspaper on May 31st 2015, the same evening on a television screen, the President said it was an act of espionage, and I will answer for it. Therefore, it is Mr. President who named this crime as a spy act, and then it was carried out by the court that influenced the bride and daughter-in-law. On the other hand, is it a crime to publish a document in a case file by ▪ Can Dündar and Erdem Gül? Yes, it is a crime. Because to expose a document to the public in an investigation or in a closed session, which is a violation of the privacy of the investigation, which is an act carried out in Article 185 of the Turkish Penal Code. In this sense, we can talk about a crime of Can Dündar and Erdem Gül, but the penalty for this crime is not an act of arrest, so the upper limit of the crime is less than seven years. On the other hand, in 2012, there was a lawsuit against a member of the Justice and Development Party, who served as a member of parliament with us, who had previously been a journalist, to publish classified documents in his own corner in the Ergenekon case, which is currently on the agenda, and even to write a book about him when there was no trial. In addition, the ruling majority of the Justice and Development Party changed the latest joke of Article 185 of the Turkish Penal Code in 2012 in order to get rid of these investigations and nearly 40 cases of their own friends. The change in the last joke of Article 185 is exactly this: The action of those who violate the secrecy of the investigation or the closure of the trial does not constitute a crime. That's what we're discussing today, so Can Dündar and Erdem Gül have nothing to do with it. In addition, the Constitutional Court has ruled a violation based on this phenomenon, and these two journalists have been released. First of all, I don't know Can Dündar, but I know Erdem Gül. Erdem Gül is a young man who loves this country.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0252par0074	Right, you're right.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0251par0075	And the foundation of the Justice and Development Party, the bottom of the Welfare Party, the bottom of the Saadet Party, is very well known to them. It's a great injustice to put a spy in prison, and I salute the great assembly in the name of the law.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0253par0077	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions in Article 23: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose that Article 23 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act 278, which is currently in place of the release of the "subject" of Article 23 (2) of the 278, and that the notice be added in place. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mehmet Erdoğan Kadir Koçdemir Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Kamil Aydın Mehmet Günal Congressmans, now that the motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of the International Code of Adli co-operation in Articles 278 of Criminal Issues change the declaration of international agreement on Articles (1) of Articles 23 of Articles III and (2) as international agreements. Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Mustafa Akaydın Şenal Sarıhan Selina Doğan Murat Emir Ömer Fethi Gürer Necati Yilmaz The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Ayhan Bilgen Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0254par0104	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0253par0105	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0255par0106	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0253par0107	Mr. Ayhan Bilgen will speak first on the motions. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0256par0110	Mr. President, you know there's been an extradition today. Noble Nadir had previously been sentenced to bankruptcy and prison escape in England, was extradited to Turkey, and, I think, according to media reports, he was released. This is the kind of information that Britain has given to the British press as far as it's concerned that the victims of the company's bankruptcy have been paid, but there's no concrete information on this issue that has yet been reflected in Turkey's public. Now, we're talking about forensic cooperation. If the law is in the spirit of the law, in your philosophy of law, you think of it as human-based, human-rights-based, but if you're putting law on the perception of the state with a logic from the Cold War, you're going to act differently. In this bill, it appears immediately (b) in the work of Article 23 (i.e. Now, in the process of investigation and prosecution, how are you going to apply the reciprocity in both handovers and takeovers, so if you look at the logic of reciprocity, what about the questionable rights? It's possible to discuss and discuss this contradiction over a number of different cases. For example, the reports of the ECPAT, which is subjected to child abuse in Turkey, brought from Russia, used in tourism areas in Antalya -- I don't want to pronounce it now, but there are a lot of children who are working on child rights. Now, how are you going to respond to this? Or how are you going to apply this argument about the refugee children in Turkey, about the Syrian children? So, once in the basic logic of the law, in the spirit of the universe, there's an understanding of that in interstate relations, yes, there's a sense of sovereignty, but the questionable rights are no longer human when it comes to human rights. But, for example, there are other debates about reciprocity in the world right now. In the field of human rights, the reciprocity is being waived, it's being argued that it should be abandoned. Economic policy talks about reciprocity. For example, today Osmangazi -- a big one -- was opened as one of the world's longest bridges. As far as we know, the price schedule was announced over the dollar, 25 dollars a pass. Now, $25 plus VAT. Why don't we move with the U.S.A. on the austerity axis, for example, on the use of dollars?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0257par0114	Yeah, well, whatever you do, you find something to criticize.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0256par0115	Why? He's discussing world reciprocity in economic policies. That's the official number, $25 plus VAT, $35 plus VAT. This is the official statement from the Ministry of Transport. Plus there's an explanation that these numbers can change. Now, if you don't follow the trendes of the world, if you continue with an approach based on reciprocity in the field of human rights, the painting will be different. But there was another development in the press today. How, for example, are you going to conduct a reciprocity on this? Investigator reports are being drawn up about the names of the people mentioned in the October 10th attack and the governor's office is being asked to investigate. The governor's office doesn't approve any investigation into law enforcement within four days of the inspector's reports, refusing to investigate. Now, if these people, the people in this investigation, the members of ISIS, were citizens of Syria rather than citizens of the Republic of Turkey, how would we proceed with this argument with Syria? Therefore, this law has qualities that are technically unacceptable in many ways. But, of course, most of the time here, probably at jet speed, these laws will pass, because now the human rights perspective, the human rights approach, unfortunately, is not very important when the laws are being drawn up, as a routine mechanism, only the procedure is being completed. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0258par0120	Thank you. The other speaker will be Ankara MP Necati Yilmaz on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0259par0124	Mr. President, Mr. Court, dear MPs, we share the excitement and enthusiasm of celebrating the 96th anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, one of the most fundamental institutions of our republic. Dear MPs, the Kurd, the Turk, the Lazkek, the Armenians, the Alevi, the Sunni, we built this Assembly together, we built these lands together, we ended the reign together, we declared the republic together, and in the past time in the multi-party system, there were the founders of the parties who were his successors in the Republican People's Party. Therefore, we have acted with all the blessings of the republic, all its virtues, without distinction, with the zeal of all our citizens. Of course, that's the way it's supposed to be. Sadly, though, the process we are in today points to a period of time when we all have feelings, thoughts, purposes, and we're worn out at the beginning of our journey. Unfortunately, our hundreds of years of republic and democracy savings, our desire to live together, our search for the common future, are getting weaker and weaker. Sadly, it is the will of one person to rule over the will of the whole nation. That's the main reason why we're going through this trouble in the first place. This will also wants to make the state's institutions feel as if they were the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the Kaba. Unfortunately, this approach to all Parliamentary studies has become fundamental. However, it's a futile effort. You know that we have no power, no power over the will of the people, and this great House, which provides the salvation of our country and the establishment of our republic, has not surrendered its will, and has not closed its doors, even in the most difficult conditions. Therefore, we would not surrender to the will that was forced upon us today, dear friends. I don't want to talk about the mistakes that brought us into this troubled environment on this special day, not the mistakes that I'm looking for. Instead, I'm leaving this assessment to history. I want to call upon freedom, democracy, peace and brotherhood for all of us on this special day. These concepts will first be possible, with our joys and sorrows shared and shared, and life will be found. Dear lawmakers, let's not let the days of our feasting together be removed from the days of April 23rd, October 29th that bring us together. Let's not accept dissension over these common values. Let's celebrate the 96th anniversary of our Parliament together with the same enthusiasm. We refuse to give up celebrating April 23rd on grounds of our martyr funerals. May we not forget that April 23rd is the holiday our martyrs gave us by sacrificing their lives. We don't need permission from anyone to celebrate April 23rd, to understand our martyrs, to re-understand the process of organization and salvation, and to celebrate April 23rd, we don't know anything about it. Dear friends, in the 96th year of the opening of our Parliament, I celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day (April 23rd) of our children and all our people. However, I also regret to inform you that yesterday, just yesterday, what we call our future in Karaman, the case of horrific abuse against our children, has been avoided by reaching a verdict in one day. In addition to our mutual joy, I invite you to share this sadness. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0260par0132	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0261par0133	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0260par0134	The motions... Is the decision enough?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0261par0136	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit04spe0260par0137	I'll submit the motions to your votes, and I'll look for a sufficient number of decisions. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0260par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the 23rd article of the Law Bill of 278 rows, there was not enough decision in the vote of the petition of Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen and his friends and Ankara MP Necati Yilmaz and his friends. Now, I'm going to put the motions back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't accept... are not accepted, there's enough of a decision. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of the International Adli Co-operation Act (JP) in the 278 rows in which it is being discussed, and that it be included in the statement in the article (2) in its statement, and that it be added in its place. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0262par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0260par0014	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0263par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0260par0016	Mr Mustafa Kalaycı will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0264par0019	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Recently, the complicated country's agenda has clouded economic problems and put them on the back burner. Progress has made problems in the economy more widespread and has destroyed prospects for the future. Economic and social indicators alert. The government's fictional pink paintings are no longer capable of hiding painful truths. Because of economic difficulties, our trade, trade, trade, and farmers face serious problems. There's a recession in the market. The increase in cash congestion, collection and repayment problems, bankruptcy and bankruptcy delays comes as concrete indicators of these problems. In 2015, the unrequited check amount increased by 37 per cent, the protested bond amount by 23 per cent, and the problem loan amount increased by 31 per cent, reaching historical levels over the years of crisis. The number of registered tradesmen, farmers and employees has now begun to decline. According to Social Security Agency data in January 2016, the number of forced-insured trades has decreased by about 25,000 people within a month and about 5,000 forced-insured farmers. There has also been a significant decline in registered employees, with the number of mandatory insurance employees reduced by about 379,000 employees in one month. In particular, the SMEs are experiencing major problems, with the number of SME businesses reduced by 30,000, while the registered employment of SMEs has decreased by 294,000. Our shopkeeper and farmer are in debt. The banks and loan sharks have been overwhelmed, and the interest has become breathless at the bottom of the loan. They couldn't pay their taxes and bonuses on time. However, this year's monthly insurance premium increased by 29 per cent to 568 lira, while the farmer's monthly insurance premium increased by 35 per cent to $435. The AKP has not given 100 lira monthly bonus support to employers to our shop and farmers to lighten its premium burden. Since the tradesmen and farmers who failed to pay their current premiums were unable to receive health care, the Council of Ministers, dated 29 September 2015, was granted free access to public health services by the end of 2015, and the decision of the Council of Ministers, dated 14 December 2015, extended for six months. And that time will be up by the end of June. There is no way that the tradesman and the farmer will be able to pay BUG-KUR bonuses, which are also highly increased. The situation is obvious. The application to cut health care due to the premium debt must be removed, considering that bonus debts were later taken with interest. The tax and premium burden of the shopkeepers and farmers must be lightened, and 100 lira bonus benefits should be given to the shopkeepers and farmers, and the tax and bonus debts must be restructured in a way that can be paid. In addition, farmers and merchants who regularly pay their premiums should also receive a five-point bonus discount for employers. Many of our tradesmen and farmers have not been able to account for some of their past work periods, so they can't retire. The deadlines should be counted as the service of the shopkeepers and farmers, without being asked to register and register before they can be registered, and past services should be allowed to be borrowed. Apprentices and internships should also be counted to the pension service. Even time spent in practice without work or insurance can be borrowed, but only short-term insurance arms limiting the lengths of training and internships based on actual work causes injustice, inequality, and so on. In addition to resolving the injury, in order to contribute to the incentive of vocational education, apprentices and internships should be counted as services, loans should be given for past services, and those times should be based on the starting date of insurance. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0265par0028	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 24: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a sentence of "one year or more jail time" in Article 46 of Article 24 of the International Court of Adli Co-operation Act on Article 278 of Criminal Issues shall be changed as "the maximum limit is not less than a year in prison." Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Mustafa Akaydın Şenal Sarıhan Selina Doğan Ömer Fethi Gürer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the last sentence of Article 24 of the article (2) of the International Criminal Co-operation Act (I.A.) be changed in the following manner. "The request for a transfer will also be submitted to the evidence at the request." İsmail Faruk Aksu Mehmet Erdoğan Kadir Koçdemir Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the following amendment of Article 24 (6) of the International Adulteration Act on Criminal Issues of 278, which are currently in session. (6) With the request for an investigation or the transfer of the prosecution, or prior to the request of an investigation, a measure can be demanded by the state authorities, according to the European Convention and international agreements which have been favoured, including hand-offs and arrests. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0266par0057	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0265par0058	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0267par0059	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0265par0060	Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0268par0063	Mr. President, I salute Mr. Court and the General Assembly. Of course, Mr. Minister of Justice is gone, and I wish there was a line when he was here.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0269par0065	In the living room.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0270par0066	He's trying to be camouflaged.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0268par0067	Well, hello if he's here, Mr. Secretary. Of course, I wish we could make the laws within Turkey a standard right now before we pass these international judicial procedures abroad. Mr. Minister of Justice, let anyone visit prisons at the Research Commission for Negative Influences on Family Constructions." He said, "But we still don't talk to the prisoners, we don't talk to the prisoners, and we still have letters from them in our interview with the families of the prisoners. Recently, political prisoners have always been exiled. At night, the guards and soldiers are trying to break the will of the prisoners by raiding the rooms under the name of the search. Your prisoners' clothes are being confiscated until their underwear. Bed sheets, sheets, blankets, books, private items, and in some rooms, televisions, flowers, and garbage bags in the room are confiscated, including wires. In fact, it's interesting that in a letter, a prisoner says: I had three pens; they took two of them, they left one of them. The prisoners are actually a trust in the justice of that country, the Minister of Justice, the law. Surely that is not true, but also contrary to the principle of justice. Again, treatment rights for nearly 600 sick prisoners are blocked against the United Nations and the ECHR decisions, and severe patients are not being evacuated. We'll talk about something else. There's a violation of the law here, to be fair. I read a verse in my speech yesterday, and the verses were written as x. It can be looked at from Google, immediately bought in Arabic, copied and glued there, but it hasn't been done. However, the letter "x" is a foreign word, a Latin word. The original came from the thing -- I mean, well -- but it was in the form of the Spanish language, and then it went into Latin as the x. Now, I have something interesting to show you. On April 6, 2009, Hussein Barack Obama comes to Turkey and gives an English speech in parliament. The speech also refers to "x" (x) but is said below: "The English text of the speech of President Barack Hussein Obama of the United States is added to the text of his speech. "The language of another language, the language of another citizen of another state is explained in the report, but it is spoken in Arabic -- it becomes Kurdish, it becomes Kurdish, it becomes Persian, it becomes another language." Let's put language aside, and I don't think it's right to define scriptures as x. As for the reason, perhaps we don't understand the minutes, books, works, texts 50 years ago; our children don't understand when they read. Why? The language has always been weakened, I'm afraid. Of course, it's true proportional to government policies, but at this rate, after 50 years, our children won't be able to pick up on these x's and understand today's speech. During the Ottoman era, there was a very rich language, a very rich culture structure; Persian, Arabic, Kurdish, Turkish, but, as I said, there was always a word in Arabic today, Farsi, Ottoman, which we don't understand. It's a shame to understand that we all have to get over it, and from now on, at least the verses, the events, shouldn't pass as an x, because it's not an unknown language. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0271par0075	Thank you, Mr. Lion. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the last sentence of Article 24 of the article (2) of the International Criminal Co-operation Act (I.A.) be changed in the following manner. "The request for a transfer will also be submitted to the evidence at the request." Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0272par0083	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0271par0084	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0273par0085	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0271par0086	Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0274par0089	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. The article we are talking about is a general basis for the transfer of an investigation or prosecution to foreign state judicial authorities. You must ask the government immediately: If requested, will you hand over files on Reza Zarrab. The charges of bribery and corruption filed on December 17th-25th 2013 to the U.S. judicial authorities? Of course, what you're going to say is: these files are closed. Did you ask Iran for a file? Zencani has reported in our press how Zencani reported that his partner, Reza Zarrab, and his partner, were handing out $8.5 billion in bribes in Turkey in court, and that 1,500kg of gold reported how he bribed and aired the plane when caught on a plane in Istanbul. What's been done about these allegations? Who was paid $8.5 billion in bribes? Is that the work of the parallel? The AKP's ruling period has been a period when allegations of corruption have emerged. Instead of fighting corruption, arrangements have been made to cover allegations of bribery and corruption that will pave the way for corruption. AKP power began by first changing the tender legislation. Many changes have been made in the tender legislation, exceptions and exemptions have been made, and the tender legislation has been transformed into a rose garden without thorns, so that public tenders can be directed as requested. Avoiding the public tender system has even been arranged that the tender document can be submitted only to those invited by the administration, to whomever they want, in tenders that have not been announced. The second regulatory area that provides environment for corruption has been zoning legislation. By diversifying the powers for development arrangements, the share of the runt has been facilitated, and places taken by zoning lobbys for low prices have been transformed into areas where large rants have been provided for short periods of time, using zoning authority from citizens. The third regulatory area that paves the way for corruption has been neutralized and removed from obstruction of the control system. The inspection boards have been transformed and disabled, and the Court has been set in succession to render it dysfunctional and ineffective. An intense pressure of power has been imposed on the Court. As a matter of fact, the Court's audit reports are being sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with the contents narrowed and public damage identified. The AKP's fourth regulation area has been the reduction of corruption sentences. The amendments to the relevant provisions of the Turkish Penal Code have been saved, corruptors have been saved, the charge of misdemeanor the tender has been reduced, the punishment for violating and abusing your duties has been reduced, and the punishment has been suspended, or it can be converted into money. The fifth regulation area the AKP has made is to block the way for public harm - causing practices and allegations of corruption, not implementing judicial decisions. Due to public damage, the government did not impose court decisions that envisioned the cancellation of privatisations. The Council of Ministers has been given authority over judicial decisions for privatisation procedures, and the Council of Ministers has agreed to no further and backward action on judicial decisions that have cancelled the privatisation procedures. The regulation with Law No. 6300 has returned from the Constitutional Court, but there has been no action so far on privatisations that have been cancelled due to public damage. During December 17-25, 2013, the Turkish Grand National Assembly worked until morning to cover up allegations of bribery and corruption, including some members of the AKP government and their children, and to that end, there were regulations in many laws. Turkey has never been ruled by such power, which considers corruption a right and a privilege for it. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0275par0099	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0276par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I wanted to share some information that we just received with the General Assembly while Mr. Justice Minister is here, right on the agenda. In the district of Bismil, Diyarbakır province, the police have requested that the doctor come to the police station immediately and prepare a report of battery, algebra for those present. So we'd like to know more about the emergency doctor's release from his post, the information that he was called to the police station in a very urgent way, from here, because I couldn't reach him, because he didn't answer his phone, Mr. Secretary, when he was here. If you don't come from a state hospital, we'll start an official operation against you. Is it a statement from a battalion commander in the gendarmes?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0275par0107	Complete, please, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0276par0108	I will, Mr. President. We think the General Assembly should be informed of this immediately. That's what we're expressing, based on the information that's coming in right now. You know, it's a crime for emergency doctors to leave their post, so it's a crime for the ER doctor to leave his post, and yet it's not within his duty and authority to express to the doctor that the battalion commander is going to start processing him. We'd like to hear a general report on this incident in the General Assembly, and if the Minister is here, we'd like an explanation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0277par0112	Thank you. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a sentence of "one year or more jail time" in Article 46 of Article 24 of the International Court of Adli Co-operation Act on Article 278 of Criminal Issues shall be changed as "the maximum limit is not less than a year in prison." Omar Fethi Gürer (Niğde) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0278par0121	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0277par0122	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0279par0123	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0277par0124	İstanbul MP Gibraltar Özdemir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] Congressmans, could we have a moment of silence, please?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0280par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the 24th article of the Common Law Bill 278, which is being discussed, and I salute your grand delegation. We will again adopt one of the European Union laws today, but our report card of European integration has failed overall. For the past ten years, because of my job at the university, I've been monitoring the European Union institutions' reports on our country without interruption. Turkey's Progress Report, adopted last week in the European Parliament, stressed that the reform process has declined in these areas, especially in the past years, let alone in our report card, which is weak in Copenhagen Political Criters. In addition to regressing in areas such as democracy and law state, independence of justice, freedom of expression and press, respect for segregated lifestyles, growing authoritarian trends have been listed, criticism of refugee agreements as a condition of Turkey-European Union relations, the end of the activities carried out by ISIS terror organization through Turkey and the lack of the rule of law and human rights principles of security. Dear MPs, 74 pages have been reserved for Turkey in the United States State Department's Human Rights Report on all countries on the days of the European Parliament's report to Turkey. The report states that the most important human rights problem in Turkey is interfering with freedom of expression. In addition, more than one regulation of the law stressed that the statement, the press, has been able to limit internet freedom and the government's pressure on the media in particular. At the point where we've come to the European Union-Turkey relations that you've seen during your rule for the past 14 years, there are almost no politicians in Europe, no European Union institution is talking about the perspective of membership or full membership. (HPP) With the refugee issue and the issue of visa liberalisation on the agenda, the talks are actually nothing more than opportunity to save the day. Dear lawmakers, I also expressed in my speech this morning, that when he listed a list of individuals and organizations that he considered to be the most important members of the European Union, which he described as the destruction team, he again expressed his stance during an opening ceremony yesterday. Of course, we know the President's sceptical approach to the European Union. So, what does the Prime Minister dream of doing in the process, making it happen? The prime minister has taken a stance that reduces our accession relations to refugee issues and visa exemptions, saying that we cannot implement the resumption agreement if visa exemption cannot be reached. (Applause) Our accession process to the European Union is between the President's authoritarian and individual ambitions in domestic policy and the Prime Minister's dream of making an individual success story and proving his maturity. By the way, what is the position of Mr. Minister of the European Union? To find out, I asked him here today if the President had participated in this statement by the demolition team, but the Minister has yet to give an answer. We are in the 53rd year of our European Union accession process, which began on 12 September 1963 with the Treaty of Ankara signed by Prime Minister Ismet Inönul. In fact, when we first received our application as 1959, it was almost sixty years of valuable lawmakers. And today, he inherits this legacy that has passed half a century, and I believe that a successful completion of the full accession process will happen again with a Republican People's Party government and an honorable membership in a country where a Republican People's Party is the prime minister. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, as social Democrats, we believe in the future of Europe, where Turkey will be a full member. We, the Republican People's Party, are ready and determined to build the Europe of peace, prosperity and democracy. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0281par0138	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 25: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of the International Adli Co-operation Act on 278 rows that will be added after the notice of the 25th Article (2) in the second sentence of the article. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Kadir Koçdemir Kamil Aydın Mehmet Günal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the upper limit of Article 25 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on 278 rows of criminal matters shall be replaced by a year or more in the article (1) or more, with the declaration of above limit not less than a year. Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Mustafa Akaydın Şenal Sarıhan Selina Doğan Ömer Fethi Gürer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following changes to Article (3) of Article 25 of the International Adli Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278, which are being discussed. (3) The investigations or prosecutions carried out according to foreign state legislation, and the evidence obtained according to international law are valid in terms of Turkish law. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan of Mahmoud Celadet Bagadal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0282par0166	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0281par0167	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0283par0168	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0281par0169	Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0284par0172	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, I would like to express to you today that I have experienced the collapse of the Ergenekon case, the trial of the academics and Erdem Gül, and the process of the criminal law, which has been considered historical cases by the political government, as well as practices in Turkey concerning criminal law, and particularly the period of Ergenekon, Balyoz and CK cases. While I'm here, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to point out that the republic's prosecutors at that time, under the sunglasses, under the Mercedes, and themselves, at the very top of this country, were the most competent. These were legal prosecutors of the case, legal prosecutors and, as the defense, we could not access any documents. There's been all sorts of illegality. Not for months, but for a year and a half, more than two years, the secrecy of the files continued. The attorneys, as defense attorneys, waited for months at the gates of these Republican prosecutors, but they had a guarantee that these legal prosecutors, they had their backs on a place, they had their backs on the political prosecutor because there was a political prosecutor in Ankara who would hold their backs, to protect themselves. But what happened during that time? The legal prosecutors and special officials of these cases, you know, some of them on the run, some at the prison, some of them fired, but the political prosecutor went to the top point of Turkey, the palace. Now, in this period, Turkey had a parallel state claim for TK, Sledgehammer, Ergenekon, to build the new Turkey, such as the KCK cases. The prosecutors who made this claim themselves, the legal prosecutors and the political prosecutor of that period who filed these indictments, are now in different places. The political prosecutor now declares his judges as a parallel state, which declared the TK cases of that period as a parallel state. The so-called lawyers who claimed to own the state at the time are now members of the terrorist organization. Now, dear friends, the Balyoz, Ergenekon cases have collapsed, passed through the Supreme Court processes, but nothing has changed in terms of the KCK cases -- about eight years from 2009 to today. The methods used by prosecutors at the time, secret witnesses, imaginary witnesses, imaginary evidence creation, technical surveillance, communication listening, illegal, unfortunately, are still being used. The method, method, method, method, method of prosecutors who conducted illegal cases of that time today, unfortunately, is at the top of the HSYK's hand, Mr. Secretary of State... due to the sword of judges and prosecutors such as Damocles, unfortunately, the same methods in Turkey -- this irregular criminal trial, investigation and prosecutions continue. Still secret witnesses, still imaginary witnesses, still fabricated evidence, illegal evidence, people being victimized, arrested. Nothing's changed. When it comes to the Kurds and the KCK members, the law is not changing for the Kurds. Whether the parallelists are judges, prosecutors, or today's shooter prosecutors appointed by AKP, there are no changes. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0285par0180	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0286par0181	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0285par0182	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... Let's vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the upper limit of Article 25 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on 278 rows of criminal matters shall be replaced by a year or more in the article (1) or more, with the declaration of above limit not less than a year. Zeynep Sixok (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0287par0192	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0285par0193	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0288par0194	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0285par0195	Mr. Zeynep Altuk will be speaking on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sixok.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0289par0198	Mr. President, the esteemed representatives have just been addressed in the session regarding the international co-operation in the ongoing case of the Sivas massacre. Each time the Sivas massacre is brought up, there is talk of such places and various authorities, the chieftains. I personally felt the need to add certain words to the injustice of the Sivas massacre, as a person who had personally experienced for twenty-two years the injustice of the Sivas massacre as a person who had worked and proposed to find justice for the Bashleb massacre, and who, along with our friends -- as Mr. Naci Bostanci knows very well. In the session just now, Mr. Secretary of State, the attorney of the Sivas massacre, Senal Sarıhan, was told by the Minister that our deputy has made statements on the international plane that could implicate our country. If it's the Sivas massacre and justice, our country is in no position to keep its head high, not to be blamed on the international plane. At the end of the 22 years, this case is an unfair case, not even considered a crime of humanity, but a result of 35 people being burned to death. All attempts under international extradition agreements and rights have been unrequited. The extradition of wanted fugitives is not in fact fixed by records in the province of Sivas, where they've been searched for licenses, military service, registering their children in the population, walking around. It is due to the fact that the person named Vahit Kaynar (Vahit Kaynar) was caught at the Polish border and cannot be returned because the document was not delivered on time. In other words, another remarkable element is the basis for which these extradition demands were made. It is not the extradition of activists who have killed people in a direct attempt to target the republic's regime, but the right to march on illegal freedoms, of course the human rights report card is demanded by international countries... You know, fresh reports have come in, and our situation is pathetic. In the international plane, the practices that condemn our country are reflected and fixed by human rights viewers through the records. So in this sense, it has been very wrong and inappropriate to mention this in the days when the right extradition demands were not made, and injustice still resulted in the victimization of us in this country through the fugitive defendants. We demand that the head of our country be drawn to a plane that will be properly represented by the government's secret to human crimes and the arrangements to clear the concepts of the statute of limitations. I'm afraid the motions that we've already brought in on this have been rejected here, as I just stated in my speech. It's never too late for anything. We said pain doesn't have a statute of limitations. Pain doesn't have a statute of limitations, nor does it actually have a race for pain. Again, while I was speaking here, my dear substitute friend asked me, "Well, what happened to us?" Yeah, there's no race for pain. When we begin to answer other people's experiences with sentences that don't begin, but... well, when we fight together to ensure the conditions where justice is equal for all of us, when someone says "Sivas massacre," well, "Bastards"? When we don't say "Barebags," we don't hand-hold justice and international universal human rights criteria for Sivas, then there's no time for suffering, and there's no time for suffering. Thank you all. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0290par0204	Thank you, Mr. Sixok. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of the International Adli Co-operation Act on 278 rows that will be added after the notice of the 25th Article (2) in the second sentence of the article. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0291par0211	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0290par0212	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0292par0213	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0290par0214	Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0293par0217	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the MHP concerning the amendment to Article 25 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Matters. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation and our worthy citizens who follow us with love and respect. Article 25 of the bill concerns the taking over of the investigation and prosecution. But before I start speaking, I'd like to make a few brief points. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I ask God's mercy and immediate healing for our wounded, three of our soldiers who died in Tucson today. My greatest desire is that they be the last martyrs, and that is my prayer. Dear lawmakers, due to rockets launched into our province of Kilis, our chairman, Mr. Dr. State Gardenli, was appointed and appointed by the MHP delegation by Mr. Vice President Emin Haluk Ayhan Bey, Mr. Hatay MP Mehmet Ahrazoglu and I were in Kiliste yesterday. Earlier, Dr. Ruzar, another Vice President of the Church, had studied at the Demirel border crossing, in camps, and in Gaziantep. We've had interviews with our tradesmen, relatives of those who were killed because of rockets, our citizens, our official men, and we've been looking into it. We had no intention of bringing it up at this hour today, but today, three rockets have been dropped, one near traffic lights in front of the courthouse, and the other within 50 metres of the military casino, as a result, two of our citizens have been killed. In fact, the number of martyrs was first announced as three, but then one of them was brought back to life with CPR, and his condition was severe, and six of our citizens were injured. According to reports, one of the wounded is said to be the brother of Mr. Reşit Polat. And I wish him a speedy recovery from here. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, I ask all our martyrs God's mercy and immediate healing for our wounded. It's too bad. In three months, 14 of our citizens and immigrants have passed away, including today's people, and 50 have been injured. The church is extremely agitated, I tell you that in particular. Mr. Secretary is here, and Kilis is extremely agitated, leaving the city as possible, and the tradesman is miserable. I'm simply saying the words carefully. Mr. Minister, the church's rules of engagement have now been requited exponentially. The statement has been reduced. Look, they said it over and over again. The rules of Anjajman have been requited according to the law. The statement has now become red. The citizen says it's not worth as much news as the cat that got into the bumper of the car for the rockets that fell, he's very sorry. It's become a matter of serious national security. Attacks must be dealt with in a multidimensional way without wasting time, not simply a rocket attack, but an attack on the homeland. I don't want to say anything else here. Because in this distinguished city of Turkmen, the poverty of the tradesman, the anxiety of the citizen is increasing. I say that the city of these beautiful people, our city of Turkmen, is to be given a special importance, to provide all kinds of support, to share some of the state's support. I'm saying we're on the side of the people of the Church as an MHP. At the point of conclusion, after PKK terrorism, ISIS terror was added, and that's the sad truth. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to remind you of another sad and very painful event in the sense of the day. Today is April 22, 2016. In 1996, exactly twenty years ago, three teachers, Nurettin Aslan, Hacı Ömer Serin, who were threatened not to celebrate National Sovereignty and Children's Day on April 23, were shot to death in the village of Altınyözışı district of Kahramanmarash province, on April 22nd, after their hands were tied behind their backs. The following day, the law drowned all the students and all Turkey who were waiting with flags to celebrate the festival. On April 22, 1996, we saw the heavens cry. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish God's mercy again to our distinguished teachers who serve under difficult circumstances for the future of our village children. May their souls rest in peace, may their place be in heaven, and I hereby salute all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0294par0228	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 26 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article (1) (d) of the 26th article of the Common Law Bill 278 rows be changed to the term "also" or "also/" (or "also"). İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Mizgin Irgat Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 26 of the Article (1) of the International Adulterating Co-operation Act on 278 rows be replaced at least six months. Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Mustafa Akaydın Şenal Sarıhan Selina Doğan Ömer Fethi Gürer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the translation of the documents mentioned in this joke be changed in case the 26th article of the International Adulteration Act on Criminal Matters 278 is seen as necessary. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Kadir Koçdemir Kamil Aydın Mehmet Parsak Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0295par0255	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0294par0256	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0296par0257	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0294par0258	Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0297par0261	I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on our proposal for Article 26 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278. On this occasion, I salute the Veterans' House. Honourable lawmakers, Article 26 of the bill determines the conditions for the execution of verdicts issued by foreign state courts in Turkey, or the taking over of the execution. According to the bill, the sentence issued by foreign state courts has been conditioned that the prisoner be found in Turkey to be executed in our country. On the other hand, Article 28 of the bill is conditioned that the prisoner in the state where the execution will be handed over to foreign states to be a citizen of this country or bound to this state with strong social ties. I think the obvious difference between the two situations is understood by everyone. On the other hand, there is a requirement for a prisoner to reside in the state where the execution will be carried out in accordance with Article 5 of the European Convention on International Value of Penal Courts. The difference between the condition of being in a country and the condition of sitting in a state is clear that the European Convention on the International Value of Penal Courts of Article 26 of the bill violates the Fifth Amendment. At this point, the bill must be found in the 26th Article of Turkey, as well as in the 28th Article of the concepts of strong social bonds. Similarly, in Article 26 of the bill, there is a requirement that a decision issued by the foreign state should not be investigated or prosecuted in Turkey for the same crime in order to be executed in Turkey, but there is no such condition in Article 28 So, the sensitivity at the point of the execution of verdicts made by foreign states is not shown at the point of the execution of court decisions made by the Turkish judiciary, perhaps not at the point of the execution of foreign states. These details seem to have escaped attention due to minor differences or carelessness are official that convictions made by foreign states have been seen by the Turkish judiciary, even if only one step ahead. Members of lawmakers, while part of different parties, we are working to ensure the undivisable integrity of the Republic of Turkey with its state and nation, the peace and prosperity of society, as we swear by the same nation as representatives of the Turkish nation. Tomorrow is April 23rd, the 96th anniversary of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which we are now under the blessed roof; the year anniversary of the establishment of the Gazi Assembly, which began with the call of the nation's determination and determination, which led to the Turkish people's struggle to succeed; the Turkish nation's fate is only tied to the will of the Turkish nation. This day, as it is considered only a holiday of children, should be removed from being a day in which only our children are seated, where public plays and various activities are displayed, and the emphasis on national sovereignty must never be forgotten. On 23 April 1920, during the first session of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, founded with five representatives from each province, I would like to renegotiate to you the motion given by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who was elected President. At the end of my speech, the nation's will, which appeared in the parliament, has seized the fate of the country.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0298par0270	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 26 of the Article (1) of the International Adulterating Co-operation Act on 278 rows be replaced at least six months. Uğur Bayraktutan (Artvin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0299par0276	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0298par0277	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0300par0278	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0298par0279	Artvin MP Ugur Bayraktut will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0301par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. Very valuable MPs, I'd like to tell you a story first. In the 18th century, the Emperor of Prussia, the Great Friedrich, wants to build himself a palace. He likes a beautiful land, he wants to build a palace on it. They send their men, they look on the land, and a peasant has a windmill, and the flour comes out. They say, "Get this windmill out of here." He says: "No, I will not lift it." He says to his men: "Go and give him the money he wants, and let him take this windmill away." He says, "No. He forces it, he says, as soon as he lifts the windmill. He says: "This windmill was left to me from my grandfather to my father and from my father. Go tell that king, there are judges in Berlin. It's a very famous saying, there are judges in Berlin. Years go by. At the time of the Ottoman Empire, the Ottoman Empire sent its officers to Prussia, Germany, to study them. This story is told to those Ottoman officers, and they say, "This is the kind of story that is told. " The Ottoman authorities are curious about the incident. What kind of event is this?" They tell three Ottoman officers, and they don't interest two of them. One of them wraps his bed sheets together at midnight, and descends from the second floor, in the light of a month, at dawn, in the middle of the night, and he never leaves before the palace -- he represents justice -- he wonders about it, and he looks at it and sees how important it is to have justice. Do you know who that is? The founder of the Republic is Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Turkey returns to Turkey, reforms the republic, opens Ankara Law School. There are some who have graduated from Ankara Law School. At the door of Ankara Law School, it says: "I have never heard of the happiness I have heard in the presence of this establishment. " My dear friends say. Some of you don't like it, call it racist, his first Minister of Justice, Mahmut Assad Bozkurt, said to the Republican prosecutors: ▪Republic prosecutors...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0302par0285	Mahmoud Assat Bozkurt was a fascist!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0301par0286	You may say so, but you're responsible for the loss of the Turkish peasant who works on the shores of Meric, the injustice of the people of this country, even the tears of orphans waiting for alimony in the deserted mountains of Bingol. He told the prosecutors of the Republic. Why did I tell you that, my dear friends? Look, there are prosecutors of a republic in this country, and there are hunters of the republic, my dear friends. (CHP cheers) We need to split these in two, so this is a very important event. In the case of Ergenekon, look, we know what's going on in Ergenekon, what's going on in those conspiracy cases. Those who have been trained in criminal trials, in law schools, in particular in the form of criminal reasoning, know exactly where the evidence and the events associated with them have been brought to light, my dear friends. In the trials that took place at that time -- and I am one of your friends who followed those trials -- in that day's parliament -- our deputy president said so today -- we went out a dozen times: they're conspiracies, you're destroying people's lives. Then you were watching us laughing, my dear friends. Perhaps you can give your blessing to the living, but what will you say to those who are not among us today because they are dead in the afterlife, my dear friends? Now, one of those prosecutors, one of those mighty prosecutors, left the country with his hat on at the Sarp Border Gate, before he came. He was such a powerful prosecutor. At that time, when those trials were being made, we were making a scene here, but you were saying, "Sir, the judgment is independent. We know what the judgment is, my dear friends. At the point where the judgment came today, we also know where the judgment was intended. Look, it just went to the press yesterday, and there was a new crime invented in Artvin Cerattepe, about the people who advocated his nature, the people who did the protests, the meetings, the demonstrations, and the trial. When I made that tender and filed a criminal complaint against the republic's prosecutors about the people who caused him corruption, my dear friends decided not to pursue it within three days. Never forget that law and judgment may be needed for everyone one day. Therefore, judgment is far too great a fact for any of us to touch. Everyone may need judgment one day, my dear friends. Hence, we argued that these trials were not legal in the past. Look, something might be legal. Just because it's legal doesn't mean it's legal. We need to distinguish these two very well, my dear friends. Therefore, there is no need to be a priest, my dear friends, to tell you that at the point where the country has arrived today, the principle of separation of these forces has been destroyed in a sense, the fact that law and judgment have been under control. With this fact, we all may need law someday, and we all say that we can go to law one day, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0303par0294	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article (1) (d) of the 26th article of the Common Law Bill 278 rows be changed to the term "also" or "also/" (or "also"). Mizgin Irgat (Bitlis) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0304par0301	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0303par0302	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0305par0303	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0303par0304	Mr. Mizgin Irgat of Bitlis will speak on the motion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0306par0307	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on the 26th Amendment of the law. Article 26 of the bill is related to the execution regime. Here, in fact, we need to discuss the problems of execution in our own country rather than international or international execution regimes. I think our biggest problem is that political and judicial prisoners who are currently imprisoned or convicted in Turkey do not benefit equally from the law. I'll be speaking with some examples in a moment. When we look at the execution regime in Turkey, we can clearly see the discrimination clauses. For example, the execution of those convicted of political crimes and the execution of those convicted of criminal crimes are not equal. A convicted criminal must serve three-thirds of his sentence on condition that he be released after serving two-thirds of his sentence. In the past, the judicial prisoners were able to fall to two-thirds of these five. In prison without a term of life in prison, judicial prisoners are released after 24 years in prison, while political prisoners can be released after 30 years in prison. In a aggravated life sentence, the courts can only go out after 30 years and the political prisoners have served 36 years. However, when we look at the particular laws and the segregated substances of the execution regime, it's a matter of transfer to prison close to the families of the prisoners. Here, Article 22 of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers points to a very clear application. The absence of family ties rules and shows that one stays close to one's family. On the other hand, when we look at the prisons of Diyarbakır, Batman, Bingol, Mardin, one morning we will suddenly hear the news of many exiles in the morning, even though there is no demand for them. Having these people kept away from both their families and their friends, turning the execution into a second torture and pulling them out of life... as the Minister of Justice actually expressed in many speeches, we are faced with the kind of practice that separates prisoners from life, not to strengthen ties, but to tear them apart. After Hakeza's arrest, they face disproportionate calls in admissions to the prison. We're also hearing that there's a number of calls made at the worst rate from the naked search -- especially on female prisoners -- that's tremendously insulting, and that all of them will actually reach the level of criminality in the courts. Besides, we also know that they eat very bad food, even though there's a lot of work going on. Yeah, maybe we all get to eat all the food in the House today, but that's not how they do it in prisons, they have to eat the food they don't want, even though they're invested in prisons for themselves. Hakeza, the canteen, all the prisoners have to shop in the canteens. In the past, prisoners are forced to shop at the canteens, where they were sold three times as much, where their families were able to take whatever material they wanted and take to prisons where they wanted. On the other hand, the sports areas are extremely inadequate. When we look at the arrangement of view, we can express a number of problems, whether they want me to see many people they want -- limited to just three -- that they can't watch TV channels in prison, that they can't have contact with the land, that they don't have any contact with the land. Self-human, legal rights to be granted, suspended from the pleasure of the administration... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say we return to the execution regime, where justice and justice are served. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0307par0319	Thank you, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0308par0320	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit05spe0307par0321	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0307par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Bitlis MP Mizgin Irgat and his friends was not enough to vote on Article 26 of the Law Bill 278. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission is here. The government is here. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, we've moved to Article 27. There are three motions on Article 27: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 27th article of the Common Law Bill 2778 shall be changed to the "Community of Director" in (1). İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan of Mahmoud Celadet Bagadal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would also like to ask the Court to change the decision to the Ministry of Justice to be referred to the Criminal and Statistics General Directorate. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mehmet Erdoğan Kadir Koçdemir Kamil Aydın Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu of Deniz Depboy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 27 of the International Adulteration Act on Criminal Issues 2778 be replaced in the following way. Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Mustafa Akaydın Selina Doğan Ömer Fethi Gürer Şanal Sarıhan "Personal demands on the basis of imprisonment can be made to state courts deciding on the basis of the sentence, and the decisions made will be re-enacted by the severe criminal court." Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0309par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0307par0034	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0310par0035	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0307par0036	The Manisa MP will speak on the motion, Mr. Free Private. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0311par0039	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today, in the presence of the Minister of Justice here, we all end up at the 16th. We're discussing the Ergenekon case, which has been completely corrupted by the apartment. I specifically said that we were expecting an apology from the AKP Group, an apology from the Prime Minister of the period, Mr. President. This apology hasn't come up yet. In the next week, we'll be passing on a paper on the Ergenekon case to you every day. While the Ergenekon case is being seen, what the opposition party MPs have said, the ruling party MPs, the vice presidents, the group vice presidents, Mr. Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister of the period, we will continue to read and ask for this apology. The most well-known, the Prime Minister of the period, said, "I'm the prosecutor of this case." We talked about it all the time. On that day, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, who was known for insuring political risk, normally billing political risk at the time, never felt the need. The whole of Turkey owes them a great debt for democracy, that's what we think. Turkey is getting to a good point. These pains, these pains, on the one hand, are labor pains, so you have to perceive them. Turkey is cleaning out its intestines. He says it's for the Ergenekon case. Egemen Dona, we always remember him -- he didn't get the response from his group -- but we remember him making fun of Bacara or something, but unfortunately, Turkey is full of people who want to fish in blurry water. We've been through this all history, but it's been a blessing in our time of power to align their extensions in Turkey. We have aligned the army, and the Ergenekons answer one by one. When the Republican People's Party expressed long-term unlawful trials, politicalisation, politicisation of the judiciary, Yalçın Akdoğan always came here on Tuesdays before taking office -- as the Prime Minister of the period -- then sat and sat and talked about these cases, the current lawmakers, who were here that day, who were not in their ranks, were the first to enter the congratulation line when they were released. Yalçın Akdoğan said it was the largest legal reckoning in the history of the Republic in 2013. As of next week, you will hear those reports in detail here. Huseyin Çelik says that mercy in the wolf is cruelty to the lamb. He says: "You must remember that Turkey has been under threat of coup for many years. If mercy prevents justice, then mercy will bring sickness. We will have no mercy on the adolescents. In the wolf, mercy means persecution of the lamb. Besides, we're going to read one by one what friends of yours who live at this time say about these issues during the mayoral term, during the presidential term or during the past term legislatures. I don't know if you've ever heard of a pilot's app, but it's time for the Kayseri Metropolitan Mayor Mehmet Özhaseki -- here we are -- to say he's eliminated an injustice, he says he's trying to lift it. The Metropolitan bill created injustice, saying he was working to compensate for a lack of it. The whole of Turkey is waiting for it to do it. But what does he have to say about that? ▪ I believe in this case 100%. I believe in this case as I believe in God, 100 percent of it is Mehmet Özhaseki.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0312par0048	The case isn't over, it's still on.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0311par0049	I'm picking on him. Let Mr. Özhaseki come and say here that I believe in Ergenekon's case 100 percent as much as I believe in God. Now let him make a statement. Apology is accepted, and if he doesn't apologize, I won't question his faith, but he'll probably have to pay for it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0312par0052	The case continues, Mr. Ozgur.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0311par0053	I'll go on, I'll go on.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0312par0054	The case is ongoing, the case is broken.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0313par0055	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the final sentence of Article 27 of the International Adli Co-operation Act (Adjective 278 places in the meeting) shall be changed to "The Court also informs the Ministry of Justice that the decision be delivered to the General Directorate of Forensic Records and Statistics." Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0314par0062	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0313par0063	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0315par0064	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0313par0065	Mr. Deniz Depboy will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0316par0068	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Movement Party Group to talk about Article 27 of the Law Bill 278. I salute you. Before we begin my words, I am celebrating the National Sovereignty and Children's Day on April 23rd, with the power of our children, who are the guarantee of our future on the 96th anniversary of our national sovereignty, to shape the future of our beloved nation. I also remember the heroes, martyrs and veterans of the First Assembly, including the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who gave us this meaningful day and left us with it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to inform you on the crime rate in our country, in relation to the issue, and in particular to the promise of juvenile guilt. From 1994 to 2014, the population and crime rate increased. But there's no way to tell if it's increasing at the same rate. The population, 60 million in 1994, rose to 77 million in 2014. The number of prisoners and prisoners was 36,931 in 1994, and 152,335 in 2014. So when the population growth was 20 percent, the crime rate increased by 400 percent. As we look at the most common crimes, we have seen drug trafficking, extortion, theft, and murder, which increased by 600 per cent from 1994 to 2014. The number of juvenile offenders has also increased. According to TÜİK data, the number of children brought to security units in 2011 was 204,040, while the number was 273,571 in 2013, and 280,414 in 2014. The number of children led to crime in 2011 was 84,416, while the number was 115,436 in 2014. The number of victims rose from 88,582 to 121,717. So the number of juvenile offenders between 12 and 25 has increased by 40 percent between 1994 and 2014. In addition to physical, sexual, psychological abuse by authorities today, a new form of abuse has been established for children, as well as a new form of abuse under the name ▪ideological and political abuse. Studies show that terrorist organisations target children and young people between the ages of 14 and 25 as human resources. It should not be forgotten that those who commit crimes at an early age will have the potential to commit crimes when they become adults, as well as in later times. We know that the process of industrialisation and urbanization in advanced societies, in relation to the quality of being a social state, is being carried out in parallel with the construction of social institutions; these institutions protect people, especially young and children. According to this, children who are not supported by family or relatives need to be protected and supported by the state. However, such institutions in our country are inadequate, unfortunately lacking the equipment and resources to help children. Animal education is also full of problems. Children are unable to carry on higher than mandatory education due to financial inadequacy or various failures. Again, these children are also obliged to enter into working life. Even though it's been arranged for the apprentice, the structure in this area is far from functional, it's hard to be an apprentice. It is also the economic abuse of children at work. Children who can't be apprentices have to work on the street outside, where bread is in the lion's mouth, where they can try other ways, learn crime and internalize it, which is very dangerous. Children's education must be considered as a state policy as well as a knitting education. When we look at the statistics, it's obvious that we can't protect our children. Our young people who live abroad are also caught in the net of a crime trap. As the National Movement Party, I remind you that we have to take immediate measures and work on protection, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0317par0077	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 27th article of the Common Law Bill 2778 shall be changed to the "Community of Director" in (1). İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0318par0084	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0317par0085	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0319par0086	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0317par0087	Diyarbakır MP İdris Bauken will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0320par0090	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm afraid we're working overtime here on justice in an environment where there's no justice, where the law is completely rescinded, and I'm afraid we're wasting our time on technical arrangements. Justice must be established because justice is an indispensable necessity for everyone. I mean, you're gonna need it the most. In particular, the biggest allegations of corruption in the history of the republic, crimes against humanity during the recent war, antidemocratic practices, all of which will one day bring you to a time when you will need justice very badly as a group. Look, I've been talking about freedom of the press on this bench for months. Every time we talked about freedom of the press, the media, the pool media, in Turkey, was talking about how free the press was, but in the last five or six months alone, we watched together how many of those fellow journalists were fired from the media. The last example we saw was in the last few days. So, because a journalist has come out and expressed his opinion, Davutoglu is no longer able to carry it. He was expelled from the newspaper he worked for, and an investigation into his accounts in TRT has been launched. What is it? He only used one sentence: I don't think that Davutoglu can carry the AKP anymore. He said, "There's nothing different." Now, if there's any irregularity in these TRT accounts, how many years has he been working at TRT, I don't know, there's no transaction since then, but suddenly, when he throws a stone into a well like this, he gets kicked out of his paper, and then an investigation into his accounts is launched. Now, you are in no position to hide the conflict between the government and the palace between Davutoglu and the palace. Why bother with reporters for nothing? For months, we've been singing here. I'll tell you one topic at a time: The process of solutions, for example. Mr. Prime Minister said that if we go out and return to May 2013, we can discuss some things about the process again. In less than 24 hours, even though he didn't enter his post, Mr. President came out and said what process? What solution did he say? He said, "We will fight to the end, and this is what we will do until we finish the speck." I mean, I've witnessed Mr. Davutoglu and the ministers who were with him in the process of the basements of the atrocities in Cizre in particular, as well as the massacres in the basements of the savagery, but they have not exceeded the palace-Ergekon alliance, their partnership. There's such a reality. The Cerattepe incident: When that resistance in Cerattepe created sensitivity throughout the country, Prime Minister Green called the Artvinians' Association for compromise messages and said no work will be done until the process is over. On the very next day, the President came out and said, "These are baby Travelers." He said, "These are the young Travelers." And before his sentence was completed, the business machines began to dive back into Cerattepe again. The Prime Minister of Academics, I don't think they should be tried. Again, I don't know if it's been 24 hours, but what do you mean, someone doesn't think they should be tried? Of course they will be judged, and they have committed a crime. Can Dündar, it's about Erdem Gül. In fact, Can Dündar did not recognise the Constitutional Court's decision in the case of Erdem Gül. There are countless examples here, but I think Schultz, the President of the European Parliament, said what you didn't say or didn't want said. What did he say? The state of the Republic of Turkey, not Erdogan, is our concern in EU-Turkey relations, and we will deal with the government at its head. Now, of course, the Prime Minister's office has not made any statement on this accurate discovery, so the media has also brought about the apocalypse. So you're in no position to hide the rift, the crack inside the AKP.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0321par0101	Take care of yourself.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0322par0102	Look at you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0320par0103	We know a few people who are sitting at this time as the founder of the AKP, but look, you don't have to go to the journalists who are covering up this fight if they're not at this time.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0321par0104	It's a very ordinary expression of weakness.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0320par0105	Your best chance is there's a opposition like the CHP. If there was an active, punch-in-the-table main opposition party, you'd be able to take a swing today. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0323par0108	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0324par0109	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0323par0110	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0324par0111	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy President of the Group, your best chance is that there's a opposition like CHP.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0323par0112	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0324par0115	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the biggest chance this country has is that the opposition, like the CHP, is that its biggest misfortune is that it is an opposition party like the HDP. Now, I don't know if he just came into the living room, backstage, he might be in the garden, but please call, let him come, and let him make this clear; while Kayseri was Mayor, Mehmet Özhaseki said, "I believe 100 percent in this case, Allah believes as much as I believe in it." Now, Yilmaz junc has spoken from there. The case is not over yet. So what he means is that it's broken both the way and the way, but it'll be seen again in court. Maybe we can save Mehmet Hodja's ass with this, maybe the case is what he wants. But Mehmet Hodja didn't expect it today, Yilmaz Bey explained -- and I expected you to tease me -- look what he said, you'll see right away in summer, justice eventually comes to pass, so that's the truth. Maybe some of them were victims, but justice was finally served. He said today. Now, I've read the statement just now. You said: "The case is not over." He believes in a hundred percent crime, perhaps when the case is over, he will be right, and his faith will be 100 percent justified. I'll ask Özhaseki again: Mr. Ozhaseki, come, I am taunting you on this stand. Someone's been a bit of a victim, you say. Türkan Saylan, İlhan Selçuk, Ali Tatar, Kuddusi Okrır... Kuddusi Okrır, according to the prosecutor, was Ergenekon's safe, his safe. Ergenekon's safe has died, and Silivri Municipality has had to bury it in the cemetery of the poor, with expenses paid by the municipality. That's what we're talking about. Get out, apologize here. If you don't, you'll be condemned to all consciences for allowing this injustice to happen. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0325par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0326par0122	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0327par0125	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Baluken is trying to create an excellent political feast at a table with two olives. He creates a political scenario from a journalist's sentence; of course, it's a matter of the wealth of imagination. Every day, journalists say a lot of things, make a lot of comments. AK PARTY is a big party, a 50 percent voter party. If the AK PARTY says the same words, this is the 50 percent based party, here, the single voice, there's no freedom of opinion here. That's what it's said. But when different words have been spoken, this idea is not considered freedom, and this time the AK PARTY is half, cracking, breaking. Brother, decide which one?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0328par0129	Give me yours!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0329par0130	The journalist is fired, Hajji! If he wasn't fired, he was fired!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0327par0131	Is this a free party, a free party that people express in a certain tolerance, or a party that acts in a one-voice chain of command? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I assure you, this party is a free party. People say different ideas, of course, but they never change their direction, which is the good of this nation.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0330par0135	Thank you. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0331par0137	Mr. President, I have a request for two separate taunts.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0330par0138	Four minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0332par0139	I didn't pick on him.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0331par0140	First of all, Mr. Free Private, Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0333par0141	I picked on him.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0331par0142	The best chance this country has is that there is a opposition party like CHP, and the biggest misfortune is that there is an opposition party like Peoples' Democratic Party.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0334par0143	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0331par0144	At the same time, Mr. Bostanci, such as feasting on a table with two olives, in fact the thought that I was trying to put forth with a purely realistic rhetoric has expressed the understanding of the FULCRUM in front of freedom of expression in terms of producing a phantom scenario.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0335par0145	Sir, can it be considered freedom if you can't even stand this metaphor?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0331par0146	Thus, two separate taunts were allowed to speak.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0336par0147	But here, now, when Mr. Bostanci says, there's a metaphor, no insult.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0335par0148	Don't we have any metaphors?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0336par0149	I promise you, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0337par0150	No, we're not dreamers, we're not telling our dreams.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0336par0151	He didn't say "imaginative" or anything, so he didn't say anything that would make sense.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0337par0152	That's what he said, his own dreams.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0336par0153	He tried to make a feast table out of the two olives.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0338par0154	Mr. Baluken, don't push it too hard, you can't get a tease out of here.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0336par0155	I'll give you two minutes, and you can answer them both. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0339par0159	Thank you. Mr. President, first of all, let me tell Mr. Bostanci, that if that journalist hadn't been fired because of this sentence, if there was any irregularity in his accounts at TRT, we could have handled it here on the basis of your value of freedom of opinion. I mean, you think anyone can feast on two olives because your table is already very rich. In that sense, you think you can feast on two olives because you've taken from the people's table and brought them to your table, where you're wrong. Secondly...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0340par0162	We're not getting anything from anywhere. We don't go down in public and buy things.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0339par0163	I mean, look, guys, you don't have to yell at them. For God's sake, since we're working long hours here...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0341par0165	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0339par0166	Do you, for example, not consider the departure of Reza Sarraf to the United States or the service of photos of their minister's children from Singapore as part of these ruling wars? Yeah, I'm surprised at you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0342par0167	You tell me what you're doing in the southeast.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0339par0168	I mean, if you don't understand a situation that's so obvious, I say focus a little more on politics. On the other hand, look, let me tell you about the CHP: is there poverty in this country, is there corruption, is there hunger, is there war, is there death, is there funeral? I mean, there's everything for a social democratic party to be in power, but a AKP that doesn't carry a piece of democracy from 2010, if it's power, I'm sorry, you have nothing to do with social democratism, and you have nothing to do with the main opposition mission you're talking about.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0343par0171	So we're social Democrats?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0339par0172	So, when you say CHP's best chance is to give them to AKP with a platter of gold, when you have the chance to come to power. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0344par0175	What do I do? What would you do in my place, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0345par0176	I'm asking for a period, and I'm asking for a reason.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0344par0177	To give power to the AKP to the golden tray.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0345par0178	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0344par0179	The ultimate insult.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0346par0180	You didn't serve it on a platter, we bought it ourselves.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0344par0182	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, now, when there's a bullying of the institutional identity of a party here, forward pass, not back pass, for once, you have to be very clear... By the way, I see Mr. Ozhaseki in the lines of power. And we're waiting here specifically for him to use the right to answer. With an apology in a sentence here, at least you'll be starting this process from a point, somewhere in the Parliamentary transcripts. If you have any conscience, you will come out and apologize, that you are on the plane you said today, that you have done wrong in the past; and the matter will be settled. As for a social democrat party, there's everything that can make it a power. Right. For this reason, the Republican People's Party has expressed concern over your agreement to present the presidency to Recep Tayyip Erdogan on a golden platter, leaving this roof of parliament aside. If you had listened to us, if the AKP had listened to us, if it had been based on this roof of Congress -- maybe it would have been a bit slow, but today...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0347par0185	We'd be devastated if we listened to you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0344par0186	...from June 7th until today, when your true face was revealed to each other, we wouldn't be in so much pain after the dissolution of the politics of cooperation that you've both set up to deceive each other. As for the task of offering power to AKP on a platter, they said: By 7 June, we worked, the officer, the farmer, the pensioner, they can't do it. After a while, you said, "We will do the same thing." You said, "The Nationalist Movement Party said the same thing on the evening of June 7th until the AKP fell out of power and the National Movement Party said, "We will not be anywhere." By the time Turkey was left in need of AKP power. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit06spe0348par0190	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0348par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 278. Commission? Here. Government? Here. I submit to your votes the motion of Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken and his friends: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0349par0010	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0348par0011	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0349par0012	Mr. President, Mr. Special, Deputy Chairman of the CHP Group, has just dedicated some of the allegations of our party's meeting to form the government after June 7th, with the name of our party mentioned on the stand. I want to answer because of the bullying.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0348par0013	Mr. Akçay, I've changed the session, so I can't promise not to tease you for that reason. I'll turn on the mic, tell me where you want to go, please.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0349par0017	Mr. President, if you hadn't taken a break, we'd have answered from the podium. The entire group of vice presidents are responding from the stand, but my rights have been restricted, but thank you. Now, Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, other political parties have a different agenda, the nationalist Movement Party has a different agenda, and we don't go after other people's agendas. We are the National Movement Party; we have our own principles, our own party schedule, our goals, and we follow that agenda. We'd spoil it, and we don't always sing like this because we'd drink two drops of politics like a sparrow, and we'd have two drops and two olives, and we wouldn't even know how to...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0348par0020	Pick it up, please, Mr. Akchay. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0349par0022	Also, we don't drink from bottomless wells. For thirty-two days we are having an interview. You have kept the country and yourselves occupied. In the end -- I don't want to use that phrase -- it's not clear who cheated who, but either the Republican People's Party fooled the nation or the People's Party was deceived by the AKP, but eventually the nation was distracted and deceived. From the evening of June 7th, the National Movement Party carried out and said what it should have said until November 1st and so far, with no agenda or agenda. The government talks with the National Movement Party several times -- now, they have dates, they have lists -- but within a few hours, at most, there was a three-four-hour meeting. However, we also leave it to the citizen's discretion to see that it cannot be formed, and we expect the Republican People's Party to appreciate it now. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0350par0025	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0351par0026	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0350par0027	Mr. Special, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0351par0029	Basically, he's going to be on the stand because there's bullying, but that's the way it's supposed to be in order to get even.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0350par0030	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0351par0031	Of course, Mr. Group Vice President is a very dear member of our district, so I'm going to try to keep the dosage of the answer in order, but of course, drinking water out of the wells, chirping and all that.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0350par0032	No, he didn't point it at anyone, it was the words he used to describe his own politics. Please...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0351par0033	Okay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0352par0034	I said it in general. It's an interview we call our own, and it's not picking on anyone.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0350par0035	Yeah, his own politics. Look, I'll start your time again. Mr. Akçay, what you're saying -- these are the patterns that Mr. Akçay used to describe their own politics.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0353par0038	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0350par0039	He didn't blame anyone.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0353par0040	I don't bring charges to any parties, and I don't pick on them.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0350par0041	So I don't have to make promises because of the bullying, but I promised you, too. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0354par0043	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Article 64: The President or the Vice President, who heads the General Assembly, cannot disclose his opinion in any way while the issue is being discussed and voted on. Personal rights are reserved.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0350par0045	What you're reading has nothing to do with what I'm doing. Come in, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0354par0047	I took it as a reminder.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0350par0048	But, no, not at all, that's something else.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0354par0049	Mr. President, you are at the core of the discussion, so you're moving forward.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0350par0050	Look, I'm handling this, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0354par0051	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0350par0052	I don't comment, I manage. I'm the one who's at the decision-making point, and my perception is important because I'm going to decide. I'm rebooting your time. Please tell me the answer.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0354par0054	Mr. President, I'd appreciate it if you'd make that comment while I'm at it. You promised, and I'm responding to the National Movement Party, and you're going into the context and you're arguing, and you're interrupting, and that's what I said.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0350par0055	Would you continue, please?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0354par0056	Sure, I'll keep going.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0350par0057	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0354par0058	What we're trying to tell you is that if it wasn't for the nationalist movement party's attitude on June 7th, the next process could have gone a whole other way. But the attitude that convinced Turkey that an AKP-free power is not possible is the position of the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0355par0059	Why do people have to do coalitions? Does MHP have to do coalitions?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0354par0060	I'm just saying. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0356par0062	After all, the AK PARTY is power.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0357par0063	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0358par0064	Mr. President, one moment from my position, please... I beg you, one moment.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0357par0065	Please tie this up, but we're not discussing June 7th and the following process, that's not the agenda. Please, I'd like to invite the General Assembly to the agenda.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0358par0067	Actually, Mr. President, this is a taunt, you have to answer from the stand.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0357par0068	Just a minute.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0358par0069	I'd like to ask my seat to keep the matter quiet.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0357par0070	I won't let it go, but I promised Mr. Special to you for a minute, as well.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0358par0072	Mr. President, right now, in 15 seconds... As president, of course, you have to express your opinion in order to appreciate whether there is bullying, so your attitude is correct.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0357par0074	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0358par0075	A push has been made since 7 June, and the National Movement Party has clearly determined its position against a 60 per cent bloc, a qualitative block, and a block imposed on this bloc. We don't have to, and we'll continue our policies in the same way. No inconsistency has been thanked to God, and there will be no more. In short, I wanted to express it in order to make sure I didn't extend the polemics any longer. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0357par0077	Thank you. Congressmans, there are three motions in Article 28: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 28 of Law Bill 278, which is currently in session, be replaced by the ibabe of the 28th article (1) in the subcommittee (1). İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 of Article 28 of the International Adulterated Co-operation Act on 278 rows of criminal matters be changed to less than six months (or less than five months). Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Mustafa Akaydın Şenal Sarıhan Selina Doğan Ömer Fethi Gürer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following bell be added at the end of Article 28 of the International Adli Co-operation Act (1) in the current criminal issues of 278 rows. "e) The fact that there were no investigations and prosecutions in the foreign state to carry out the execution for the same crime." İsmail Faruk Aksu Mehmet Erdoğan Kadir Koçdemir Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Kamil Aydın Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0359par0104	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0357par0105	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0360par0106	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0357par0107	Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0361par0110	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party to discuss our proposal for the International Administration Act on Criminal Matters 278. I salute you all again. Honourable lawmakers, success in modern, democratic, social law states is not only a need for domestic politics, it is not only a step towards prosperity; it also requires the country to engage in respectable, decent activities in international relations. Now, what we're predicting at the point of taking our position on foreign policy at this time, or what we're essentially accepting, is that we're trying to make a law on meeting some of the conditions that the European Union has given us for visa exemption. Every time we're in a jam in politics, every time our power is narrowed down -- it changes its conjunctive, but lately, especially with the concentration of terrors, it's taken refuge in a concept of national and domestic; what a beautiful, truly refreshing concept, we're trying to come up with a law today to ensure that the European Union is granted visa immunity. What's national about it, what's the definition of a local stance? Instead, I really wish that we could do this as a need to be national and domestic, to think that there is a national need to satisfy the needs of our country, of our people, of our citizens. I mean, if we were going to apply for visa exemption, if we were to go with our laws, our practices, our laws that would really rock Western democracies with his life, with his law, with his judgment, with his execution. What are these, in a few specific instances: Sir, there are difficulties with our judgment. Here, we make laws all the time. I mean, we've had deals like this before, we've got twos, we've got a structure, we've got an INTERPOL, sir, it's in the defense industry, it's in security, but we can't even take one terrorist, and we can't even bring him into our country. There's a deal, but there's nothing in the application. We're going to do these, but how much will it reflect? Now, we're looking, sir, that Turkey has not updated the Strategy or Action Plan for Enhancing Transparency and Enhancing Anti-Corruption. Yeah, that's a shame. I mean, are we gonna do this when Europe wants us to, for God's sake? Transparency must be our character, the basis of our nationality. Liquor, for example, is one of the things that's being imposed. Sir, the appointment is underprivileged. Yeah, well, in our culture, it's a very important concept of integrity and driver's license within the structure that constitutes our nationality. Wouldn't it have been better if we had done what we should have done, like pre-empting, before we took out these laws and put them into practice? If we did the right thing to fight corruption... to fight corruption, to bring a matter with even the slightest rumor to the High Council, to the Supreme Court, to the Supreme Court, to be found guilty and not guilty, believe me, such matters would not be raised in the European Union progress reports. So we say, if you have a claim to be national and domestic, the way to be national and native is to live, to walk, to judge, to be our son, to say that she is ours, to be so far away from democracy, so far away from nationalism. We have the law, we have the judgment, we have the execution. You can't be credible here about nationalism and domesticity. So I'm saying that if we're really going to apply the laws that we're going to make as soon as possible in a healthy way, we need to consider the best interests of our country, of our nation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0362par0118	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 of Article 28 of the International Adulterated Co-operation Act on 278 rows of criminal matters be changed to less than six months (or less than five months). Omar Suha Aldan (Mugla) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0363par0125	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0362par0126	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0364par0127	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0362par0128	Mr. Ömer Süha Aldan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Aldan.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0365par0131	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, the 28th article concerning the transfer of the execution. But today, rather than this arrangement, we're expressing our concerns about general law rather than the content of this bill. I'd like to share with you an incident that happened in the past: that of Mehmet Efe the Blacksmith and Halide Edip Adıvar the corporal in his team. Demirci Mehmet Efe eğirdir sends word that he will leave in a few days, and the people of Eğırdir will also come to the Great Demirci Efe, wondering if we will do anything or be persecuted. So some of them retreat to their homes, some of them go to the land. Blacksmith Efe is coming, and there's no one around, and he's getting pretty angry. How many days have I told you that I would come, and there is no one to greet me? And he turns to those who are angry with him, saying, "You will hang the first person you see from this city in this tree." Then, after a while, a young man returns from the field, and immediately the angry take him away, and hang him from a tree. So Halide Edip Adıvar is very upset. Is it good for a great man like you? What a sin this child had, and how his parents will grieve for such a man. Alas, it is a sin, does it have a place in our religion? I don't intend to make a reference to these days. The circumstances of that day, the level of education of that day, may make such a promise necessary, we can take it as normal. But today there is scientific persecution in our country, and that is judgment. In many countries around the world, judgment can, of course, make decisions that are sometimes critical, but I believe that as much as Turkey, justice is not spoken in any country. In a totalitarian country, it is impossible to even discuss the decision already made by the judiciary. In a democratic country, in a developed country, in a country that believes in the rule of law, the judiciary is not always considered a problem. No one ever thinks that the members of the judiciary can make biased, biased decisions, or even plots, but in a country like Turkey, we always talk about the judiciary. Today, yes, there is a scientific persecution in Turkey, and we have put aside the understanding of governance with knowledge in Turkey. In one of my last speeches, I said: "What do you think about when you say guns?" Yes, a weapon that's popular these days, Kanas, for example, comes, the Kaleshnikov comes, the storm comes, the obsesses come, but unfortunately today I think that one of the most important weapons in Turkey is judgment, and it's a weapon; when you don't expect it, it hits you in your life, puts you out of your fire, takes away your freedom, leaves the children without a father, and leaves you without a mother. You rot in that prison for years, you smell of concrete, and when you go out, you don't fit in, and a lot of people lose their minds, and we never see them; on the contrary, we applaud those prejudicial, scheming people, and when it comes to it, we've made a mistake, we've been deceived. My final words: The greatest challenge for opposition is a judgment that is not on its side. From that point of view, I need it when I'm in charge of justice. Those who have fallen from the government must also know that justice does not await them, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0366par0137	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 28 of Law Bill 278, which is currently in session, be replaced by the ibabe of the 28th article (1) in the subcommittee (1). Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0367par0144	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0366par0145	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0368par0146	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0366par0147	Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the motion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0369par0150	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on Article 28 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278. I salute the General Assembly. The bill organises the procedures and foundations of international judicial cooperation on criminal issues, and regulations on criminal co-operation with other states are being made. Of course, many of these regulations are made under the name of visa liberalisation for Europe, and are quickly eliminated and in superficial forms. In the basis of the bill, it is said in accordance with the 90th article of the Constitution, that the international agreements laid into force are under law, and that these documents constitute a direct ruling in our internal law. So, according to this statement, the Department of Justice claims to have adapted civil law to international contracts. Dear lawmakers, we all know that Turkey does not consider international contracts, given the state of the prisoners and prisoners in prison. One of the most recent examples of this is the arbitrary restrictions and practices developed on visiting prisoners and prisoners. Dear MPs, dozens of applications by HDP MPs on visits to prisons and requests to meet prisoners and prisoners for months have been permanently rejected or not even answered by the Ministry of Justice. The regulation for MPs' meetings with prisoners or prisoners in prison was stated on June 17, 2005, but HDP MPs are unable to benefit from this provision. The demands made by the MPs to assess, examine, or negotiate the conditions of life in the penal execution institutions are carried out under the condition of informing the criminal execution institution's administration on the basis of Article 40 of the Law on Visitation of Prisoners and Prisoners. Lawmakers may discuss it as an open visit to prisoners and prisoners. Although it is said that the right is still being blocked by the Ministry of Justice by arbitrary methods. Dear lawmakers have been made clear by other party MPs during the arrest of journalist Can Dündar and Erdem Gül, when only HDP MPs have been subjected to obstruction of prison visits. For example, the request for a visit to journalist Can Dündar and Erdem Gül was not accepted without any grounds. Republican People's Party MPs, however, have been granted requests to meet with the same people. Precious lawmakers have reached a level of concern, on the one hand, of systematic transfers to prisoners and prisoners in prison, exiles, while trying to hide rights violations in prisons during the period when they reached the height of all criminally illegal practices, and not being allowed to meet the representatives of the public. Precious lawmakers note facilitating regulations on transfers of citizens of the Republic of Turkey to prisons in Turkey under various conditions in which the bill has been sentenced by foreign state courts. This provision will allow our citizens, convicted in prisons abroad, to come to their own countries and to meet with their relatives in Turkey even if they are to remain in prison on this occasion. Unfortunately, however, the Ministry of Justice is doing everything in its power to prevent political prisoners in Turkey from meeting with their relatives, especially those in prison. Prisoners and prisoners are being punished once again for the arbitrary practices in prisons. Families who want to visit relatives in prisons often can't even afford to travel. This arbitrary transfer is being inflicted on the spouses, children, and parents of prisoners in exile. On this occasion, I repeat our call to the Minister of Justice to avoid conjunctural arbitrary practices and act in accordance with the law and justice of what I have just said, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0370par0157	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0371par0158	Thank you. I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's been a disagreement between the clerks. We're doing it with an electronic voting device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 29: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 29 of Law Bill 278 be changed to "denial" in Article (1). İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "lose" of Article 29 of the International Adulteration Act on Criminal Issues 278 shall be replaced by the "destroyment" of Article 29 of Article (2). Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Mustafa Akaydın Omar Fethi Gürer Selina Doğan Senal Sarıhan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose the introduction of the "improvement" and "improvement" of Article 29 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Article 278, which is currently in session. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mehmet Erdoğan Kadir Koçdemir Kamil Aydın Erkan Haberal Nuri Okutan Does the commission agree with the final motion read?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0372par0189	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0371par0190	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0373par0191	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0371par0192	Isparta MP Nuri Okutan will speak on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Reader.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0374par0195	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding Article 29 of the International Adli Co-operation Act in the 778 rows under discussion. On this occasion, I salute everyone with respect again. The results of the execution in the foreign state are held in Article 29 of the bill. Most of the material content in this bill, which is being discussed today, is mainly in international agreements adopted by our country. Of course, it is important that the bill and the disorganized legislation be amended, and the procedures and foundations of this area are determined according to the agreements. No country should have a place of refuge and refuge for the guilty. Those who commit the worst crimes against the unity and integrity of our country have been protected by the so-called advanced democratic countries over the years. Without the help, support, and protection of other states, terrorist organisations that have blood on Turkey are impossible to survive. So, in this case, who is providing financial support to organizations operating in our country, and how? Who are the gun helpers to the organizations, how do they do it? What routes do these weapons follow to the organisations? Who supports the formation of strategies, tactics and policies, including organizations? Is it possible that a good will come to our country from the cooperation of countries that provide weapons, ammunition, finance and militant support for terrorist organizations? Over the years, Turkey has been left alone in the international community, fighting the scourge of terror. Terror, on the other hand, is the common problem of all mankind, and therefore the fight against terrorism must be done in cooperation with all countries. Of course, we strongly condemn the explosions and acts of terror in Paris, but if the whole world is coming together when the bombs go off in Paris and we're left alone as a Turkish nation when the bombs go off in Ankara, then there's a problem here. Of course, it is the government that should move the international public when the bombs go off in Ankara and Istanbul, but does not the consciences of our European friends ache? Do they feel at ease? Are they alive and ours eggplants? Let's care about international cooperation, let's make the necessary arrangements, there's no problem here, but as long as we don't run the arrangements, I'm sorry to say, I don't think much will change. Let's help victims of international cooperation in the fight against crime, including terrorism, drugs, weapons and human trafficking, but let's get help. Let us take these steps with courage and determination, and let us follow them. Now, let's see if this arrangement brings any improvement in the extradition of members of the terrorist organization from their country to our country. Let's see if we can account for those who have defrauded Turkey and committed bribery and corruption and have gone abroad. Dear lawmakers, as the National Movement Party, one of our reasons for opposition is that it is unclear whether or not any issues will be allowed to enter the bill under judicial authority. At the same time, it is possible to view many matters that must be regulated by the law as an intervention in the field of law, leaving them in accordance with Article 35. However, regulations and sub-laws should be organised, technical issues and details related to implementation. Our national interests must be protected in the arrangements for international law matters, but must be avoided by practices that would undermine the rule of rule of law and separation of forces. As it is known, the principle of separation of forces predicts that the law, the administration and the judiciary control each other and balance each other. The rule of rule of law is the basic requirement of being a state of law. On behalf of myself and the National Movement Party Group, I salute and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0375par0206	Thank you, Mr. Reader. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "lose" of Article 29 of the International Adulteration Act on Criminal Issues 278 and the "dissolved" of Article 29 of the Article (2). Sibel Özdemir (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0376par0213	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0375par0214	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0377par0215	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0375par0216	İstanbul MP Gibraltar Özdemir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0378par0219	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the 29th Article of Law Bill 278 that is being discussed. I salute your high council again. I want to talk more about this PISA test. The PISA, which stands for "International Student Evaluation Programme," is a research project by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), which evaluates the skills and knowledge earned by students in the 15-year-old group. The PISA project was launched in 2000. Our country was first involved in the three-year project in 2003. When we look at the latest data -- and I want to explain my information in a little bit more detail in my first speech -- according to the results, Turkey was ranked 42 (42) among the 65 countries in the general rankings; it was ranked 44 (44) among 65 OECD countries in the field of mathematics; it was ranked 43° in the field of science and in the field of reading and understanding. In the days when the results of this report were announced, many countries who evaluated their positions in this ranking were in very intense debate, and we were too busy discussing whether we would take the Ottoman language into the curriculum in the higher education department today. The same problem, again, is to prevent the public from seeing the current situation and prevent the discussion of the basic problems of education, to open a different perception among the public and change the agenda; you know, the practice that the government has done in every policy. But here we are, as an instructor of mine, in the 42nd order of reading and understanding. It's interesting that our children's understanding and ability to read are far behind the world average. Have we also been able to teach an internationally valid language, a foreign language in this basic educational system, which we've come to the point of debate about teaching Ottoman, which is also another subject that needs to be discussed. Yes, in the last 13 years, colleges have been opened, dear lawmakers. 185 universities were opened; 104 are state, 76 are foundation and 8 are university of applied sciences. What is the contribution of these universities to our country and the science of the world, have we discussed, dear MPs? What are the number of articles in international referee magazines? What are the contributions to our country's science, which produces international patents? In this regard, what is the contribution of universities to economics, industry, production and employment? What are their potentials to create equipped human resources? The qualifications of students who graduated from universities in this way, the potential to get jobs, their contributions to employment, their contributions to production, their places in international college rankings... yes, universities have been opened; there are at least one university or even more universities in each of our provinces. Some universities have executive staffs; conservative, supportive, narrow-minded, authoritarian, ruling, or, as you call them, parallel staffs. We're dealing with young people who are repressive, unquestionable, education system and university environments, who can't think freely; young people who don't contribute to employment, production. We only have two universities at the first 500 universities in the world. Dear MPs, there's a big noise in the General Assembly lounge. I'm talking about education problems as an academic, I'm talking about college problems, you're not listening when you're talking about young unemployment, it upsets me a lot. What am I gonna tell the boys at college when I go out tomorrow? We raised these problems, discussed the unemployment issue, but the ruling representatives didn't listen, because in your hands today, we can make all the arrangements you want in this General Assembly room. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Well, here's the first 500 universities in the world. Under the president's orders, two SEC members have been appointed to investigate the number of mosques in ODTÜ. As a result of the report of these two members, the head of the RDC has set up a commission of three SEC-member professors to investigate the number of mosques in ODTÜ. Yes, I'm afraid that's your point of view of colleges, science. Yeah, why doesn't our head of staff set up a commission at the point of very serious problems, when colleges have such serious problems? While I, as a young academic, am at the point of discussing these things in this General Assembly with you, with many academics in this General Assembly, you are sadly insensitive and are very weak at the point of solving problems. Again, I salute your high council with respect and love, dear lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0379par0231	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0380par0232	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0379par0233	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and demand that the declaration of Article 29 of Law Bill 278 which is in session be changed to the term "fate" in Article (1) of Article 29 of the Article 29 of the Charter. Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı (Bitlis) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0381par0244	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0379par0245	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0382par0246	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0379par0247	Bitlis MP Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0383par0250	Mr. President, on behalf of my Democratic Party of Peoples and my group, I have made a pledge on Article 29 of Law Bill 278. I salute everyone. Dear lawmakers, we've reduced 200 of the European Union's demands to 38, so we're trying to concentrate it and sell it. There's only one thing that makes sense: we make these laws out of words; we don't recognize them anyway, we don't accept them. Everything will be run by regulations left to the Justice Department's initiative. With ostrich politics like this, there's no possibility or possibility that you'll be able to run them. It's never the government's primary duty to rule, given the authority to perform by the people's votes. The people's authority is a fair, democratic, transparent and legal government. If he is removed from this original mission, first of all, the scales of justice will be broken. Unfortunately, at the point where we're here today, we regret to see that the scales of justice have been broken in Turkey. It's not legal, we're watching you have a way of making up the law for yourself. We're in a situation where the law and the justice system are under guardianship. No government can be ruled or brought to justice by the praises of Hamaset. As the other speakers mentioned earlier, the Church issue -- it's as if our border is on the net, we're having a match, we're having a tennis match, we're having a tennis match, and Mr. Davutoglu has been trying to get the gas of the community every time he says, "We're having a match like five or ten." You know, the European Union Parliament is weak on our report card. I believe all of this was done by a lazy student who was reluctant and reluctant to do his homework. Whether it's a trade-off or a trade-off, I don't think the European Parliament will buy it. I want to tell you a story from my childhood: You know, Turkish class was one of the hardest lessons in our area. When we were in elementary school, a friend of ours, Hassan, a very smart friend, was unable to succeed. At the end of the day, say the cure, an object that is in it, and I promise, I will pass you by... and poor Hassanji has stood up and said, "My teacher, I am sick." The teacher couldn't stand it any longer: 'Ya, where's the torch? Hasan, what are you doing?' He said, 'With his clever smile, hocam, or tapasi?' Now, I'm telling you, I hope you find the deed to 200 fatties sent by the European Union. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0384par0256	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 30, which I make to read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article (1) (a) of Article 30 of the Law Bill 278 rows that are being discussed be replaced as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey (Turkish citizen). İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan of Mahmoud Celadet Bagadal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 30 of the Article (1) (d) of the International Code of Adulteration in Article 278 of Criminal Constructions shall be replaced at least six months. Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Mustafa Akaydın Şenal Sarıhan Selina Doğan Ömer Fethi Gürer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and introduce the addition of the State or Turkish declaration, which shall be issued after the declaration of Article 30 of the International Adli Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278, which is currently in session. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0385par0281	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0384par0282	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0386par0283	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0384par0284	Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0387par0287	Mr. President, the great lawmakers of tomorrow are celebrating the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of April 23rd, the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to bring a new breath and excitement to our beloved nation and democracy, and for this occasion, I am grateful and grateful to the people of St. Ataturk, who gave us the Republic as a gift to us. Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding our motion on Article 30 of the International Code of Adjective Co-operation in Criminal Issues 278. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, with the amendment proposal we submitted, we offered to add either state or Turkish declaration to come after the declaration of the sentence in the (2)th joke. In Article 2/2, 2/3 of the European Convention on Transport of the Prisoners, it is stated that the transfer could be demanded by the state, after the prisoner may request transfer. In order for this matter to be clear, it would be appropriate to show the demand authorities clearly in the matter. Mr. President, on the orders of Mr. Dr. Dr. State Garden Bey, our Vice President and Denizli Millekul, our Emin Haluk Ayhan Bey, Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Bey of Kahramanmarash, we went to Kilis yesterday. Since 18 January, we have made necessary talks about the Katushka rockets that have fallen to the Kilis, the study of the lives and property losses in the location of the Church, the meeting with the authorities and the gathering of information from the locals, and the disclosure of events there. It has been said that the events in the church were primarily a security dimension, that in recent years there has been an intense population growth in the Church -- more than 130,000 -- even more migrations than the current population. In addition, the size of security in the Church has become important beyond the size of domestic and external security. Today, five Katushka rockets were fired from the Islamic-dominated Bab region of Syria -- two in the morning and three in the evening -- have fallen to the centre of the church, empty areas and settlements. This is the 39th rocket that was thrown into the church. Two of the rocket shells that fell in the evening were killed, and six of our citizens were injured. Some houses, workplaces and vehicles have also been damaged, and Turkey has reportedly fired on the site where the rockets were launched. The view we see in the church is grave. The people of the church are anxious. The people of the church expect attention from the state, from the government. Mr. Minister, the authorities there tell the locals to stay in your north rooms, not on the southern front of your homes. In addition, the locals were reciprocated by the rules of Anjajman. When it is said, the Militia now thinks that this statement is in vain and waits for the necessary action to be done. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the People of the Church have asked us, and our citizens of the Church ask the public to announce to them: Are there cell homes sleeping in the centre of the church? What measures have been taken? Why are our intelligence and security units vulnerable? What if more effective guided missiles and chemical warheads were launched and not Katushka missiles? Why is the ISIS terrorist group firing missiles at the Church? I wonder if there's a reason for that. After the missiles were launched, they retaliated against whom? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Official statements suggest that the fuzes came from Syria, but they do not specify who threw them.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0388par0296	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0387par0297	Dear lawmakers, Kilis is expecting our help, the tradesman is expecting our help, and the people are expecting help, and they are expecting calm in a necessary way. The church is not alone. The people of the church have expectations of the House, and they also wish you to be sensitive about it. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0389par0301	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 30 of the Article (1) (d) of the International Code of Adulteration in Article 278 of Criminal Constructions shall be replaced at least six months. Free Private (Manisa) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0390par0308	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0389par0309	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0391par0310	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0389par0311	The Manisa MP will speak on the motion, Mr. Free Private. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0392par0314	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all later tonight. Some of our friends from the ruling party are angry, complaining, reproaching, working these hours, talking about all the motions. All three opposition parties are trying to tell you something here, folks. If this is happening here, if there's a problem with the work of this Assembly, it's all the responsibility of the ruling party, depending on its majority, and using the majority of its resources, for any change of law in this country, it's true. It's the way we know it. In recent years, we have voiced our concerns about the protection of personal data, made our warnings, said that we would resist the opposition if it did not contribute to the opposition parties; long resistance, at the end of the debates, was allowed to include three representatives -- just -- from the opposition to the upper body. Even that was an important step. Perhaps the criteria for the change you've made were not based on the first form of the law, but on where you came from, at the end of the strong opposition understanding of the opposition. As for the Human Rights Foundation, look how you've created the structure of the Human Rights Foundation: if there are human rights violations under normal circumstances, it's essentially a matter of independence from power, to control the state, power and power of the state. But here, the government appoints 8 people to the 11-member board, 3 people to the President. First he voiced his opposition, Mr. Minister Lütfi Elvan said he would sort it out; one night it was understood, gone, one night later he came, and I couldn't get ours to agree. He says that no one is going to investigate human rights violations in Turkey, that there should be eight people in the government, three presidents, 11 people in the building. It says that the representatives of the NGOs, the Bar Association, the NGOs, the associations fighting for human rights, the foundations that the HDP, the CHP and the European Union have requested from you should not be here. Now, against such an understanding, you will face opposition, resistance to the laws you have brought in. You have been warned by your Minister, your Minister, your government, your group presidents. If you go with this head, you'll see this resistance, this struggle, and then you'll see this strong sense of opposition all the time. What we're trying to tell you is that if you use the power that you have, the right, the right, the wrong, if you try to crush it with all your might, the ant has a brother -- no one, no one, no one, no one, no one -- doesn't crush the victim, the innocent people of this country like ants. That ant's brother is the Republican People's Party, the Republican People's Party Group. You will always see us before you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Friends, I can tell you for a long time, but you know from the past period, the CHP had an active Prison Commission working, and I was a member. We wrote five books, shared our books with the public. Five books of 200 reports were written, translated into eight languages, entered human rights organizations around the world, into the libraries of world parliaments. The income of all these books has been transferred from our side to Modern Life, and with those incomes, female students are educated. Shamil Tayyar: (Operation Ergenekon (,,,,, "Pususu"),,,, "Göl İztidar" (,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, According to our information, there are millions of dollars in royalties. Now, I'm asking the AKP Group: Is your friend who books these unjust slanders and turns the corner willing to donate the wealth of these books to the Turkish Armed Forces Foundation or not? Let him make that clear here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0393par0326	Thank you, Mr. Special. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article (1) (a) of Article 30 of the Law Bill 278 rows that are being discussed be replaced as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey (Turkish citizen). Mehmet Ali Aslan (Batman) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0394par0333	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0393par0334	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0395par0335	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0393par0336	Mr Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0396par0339	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, while the Minister of Justice is here, while we've found it, I'd like to address the facts of a fair trial, which I hope will be considered. Now, dear friends, Madam Secretary, as you know, arrest is a precaution. Whether the prisoner is yet guilty or not, he will only be exposed as a result of the trial, which means he needs to take advantage of his innocence by the time the verdict is passed. But in our region, prisoners who have been arrested for political crimes in particular have been transferred to prisons miles from their homes, while their cases have not yet been filed. For example, tens of prisoners arrested and detained in my province of Iğdır have been sent to remote prisons, such as Tekirdağ, Edirne. As you know, in cases like this, after a long time, indictments are filed and brought before the court. Now, the people who are not yet innocent here -- most of these people who have been released in the first hearing -- are not only being punished themselves at such a long distance, they are actually being punished as a whole, because they are mostly poor people -- peasants, workers -- and 1,600-1 to go to the opinion of these people. They need to travel about 700 kilometers, and that's really illegal in terms of the right to a fair trial. But there's something more important. This has become a practical rule today -- despite the fact that the system of prisoners taken miles away -- is an exception -- and the vast majority of these prisoners are being brought before the General Directorate of Punishments and Tevkifevs, which is in your hands, mostly due to the lack of vehicles or costs -- which have reached almost 90 per cent in recent years, and are being judged by the SEGBIS system. Minister, as far as I know, you're a lawyer from the law profession. Look, the principle of face-to-face doesn't exist in judgment. The defendants can't touch the evidence, can't face the judge. Often on a screen called the SEGBIS system, voices are cut out, communications are out, and more importantly, the defendant is unable to access any new evidence that appears during the trial. In the same way, their lawyers will or will appoint or hire a defense within the court perimeter of the districts where they are most of the time. Some are appointed trustees from the CMC, and it is not possible for these MPs to travel to the city, miles, 1,500km away to contact the defendant at expense. So, if we're going to defend the rule of law and the right to a fair trial, truly, in conscience, which we believe we do, then we need to get ahead of such injustices, against the law. Otherwise, most of the time, because they can't explain their troubles to the court committee, because their voices aren't heard enough, and most of the time, without even understanding the indictment properly, the courts are postponed, maybe the people who should be released to that hearing can be released in two or three months, and we've often seen this in practice. 80 per cent of the defendants brought before the court will be released, but the rate of trial by the SECBIS system has dropped to 30 per cent. I wanted to draw your attention to this matter. Please, this is a very important matter for the defendants to be taken to court. Most of the time, the relevant courts have written, but the defendants are not brought in from prisons. He writes to the courts over and over again, and he's not brought back. I salute your committee.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0397par0347	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0398par0348	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0397par0349	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 31: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 31 of the Law Bill 278 in which it is being discussed be replaced as the Chief Prosecutor's Office. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Çağlar Demirel Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit to the Ministry of Justice to change the information on the latest sentence of Article 31 of Article 31 of the International Adulteration Act (Islamic Co-operation Act) in the 278 rows in which it is being discussed to the Justice Department to be referred to the Criminal Register and Statistical General Directorate. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Kamil Aydın Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 31 (4) of the International Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278, in the following way. Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Mustafa Akaydın Şenal Sarıhan Selina Doğan Ömer Fethi Gürer During the execution, it is decided by the criminal court to place the sentence in the state or in Turkey if a general or special pardon is accepted or a crime or a reason to reduce or reduce the sentence. Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0399par0374	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0397par0375	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0400par0376	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0397par0377	Mr. Tulip will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Carabinieri.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0380	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on Article 31 of the Law Bill 278. Congressmans, we've been passing a lot of laws here, we've been working on a lot of issues, but there's people at the center of everything. But when we look at the human data, social breakdowns and social breakdowns draw our attention, and that's the most pathetic thing. Now I'd like to draw attention to some data from here. Corruptions in social structures that are the foundation of society have now become one of the biggest problems of our time. Distracted families, increased divorces, increased domestic violence, destruction of the family institution, stress, unrest, unhappiness, anxiety, and chaos are now an inevitable part of our lives. We have children's brides, precious surrogates. This is very important. Yesterday, we once again stressed that education is important, and we stressed that children's brides are actually a wound in this country and children's brides are child abuse. Now, look, at the beginning of the death of young girls between the ages of 15 and 19 -- in the early stages -- there are problems caused by pregnancy and childbirth, which is a very serious point. Again, 97% of these children who have dropped out of school due to marriage and engagement are girls, unfortunately. 181,000 children, where our daughter-in-law arrived today, domestic violence has escalated, and that's one of the biggest reasons. Unfortunately, I regret to tell you a bad memory that I witnessed: Look, as I was walking through the towns and villages in Burma during the election work, I said to a little boy, a nine-year-old boy, that day -- April 23rd -- that day -- I said: "Happy Bayram. Happy Bayram." He looked me in the face, and I told him about April 23rd. I said, "What did you do in school today?" He said, "Nothing." We just moved on, we saw another school in another neighborhood. There was an event there about April 23rd. My friends and I stood in front of the school wall and looked at what they were doing. The children of the 6-year-old group were having a henna night as an April 23rd event. A red veil was covered over the boy and he was condemned. All those children had this ideology in their minds, this idea, maybe it was vaccinated, and I regret to say it. This should never be the event to be held on April 23rd, children's brides should not be encouraged. I'm coming, counselors, to child abuse: Look, I want you to listen to this number in the children's sexual abuse -- the world's third, the world's third, the world's third in sexual abuse against children.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0402par0388	There's been a mistake.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0389	I'll show you. I'll show you the data.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0403par0390	Congressmans, please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0391	Yes, please... if you'll take my word for it...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0404par0392	Can you tell me where you got it?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0393	I'll tell you where I got it...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0404par0394	Go ahead and say it!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0405par0395	Congressman...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0396	If you'll excuse me. Increase my time, please, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0405par0398	Go ahead, please. Three or four seconds. Something happened.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0399	It's the data of child abuse associations. In the same data, one of the six children was abused. I'll show you this with data, and if you can prove otherwise, you can come in here and talk.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0406par0400	You have to say it from there now!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0401	I said there's data on child abuse associations.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0406par0402	If you say something about Turkey, if you say statistics, you have to say the source.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0403	If you can prove otherwise...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0407par0404	Mr. Speaker, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0406par0405	You have to tell me the source!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0406	Okay, I'll give you a number.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0408par0407	If Miss Lale knows how to prove it's a lie!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0408	I'll give you a number. You prove it. Look, last year, the kid...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0409par0410	You have to tell me the source!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0411	Can I have your attention, please? Mr. President, would you please give me my time?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0410par0413	You guys keep talking.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0414	I can't talk in this environment.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0410par0415	Mr. Agha is raising his voice, it's not just him.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0416	Unfortunately, we have to accept the facts.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0411par0417	We don't have to accept lies!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0418	Last year, more than 11,000 children were subjected to sexual crimes, including 1,377. They're in the criminal record. If you open them, if you look everywhere... Yes, women's murders have increased by 1,400 percent in seven years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to say a few more things about that if I can get word back in a moment.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0412par0422	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0423	Are you going to add time, sir, because it's too divided?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0412par0424	No.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0401par0425	Okay. I'll give you more numbers on another item.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0413par0427	Then let's ask for the number of decisions enough, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0412par0428	We'll submit the motion to your votes, and we'll look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose to the Ministry of Justice to change the information on the final sentence of Article 31 of the 31st sentence of the International Adulterating Co-operation Act on Article 278, which is currently in session to be referred to the Court of Justice and Statistical General Directorate. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0414par0435	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0412par0436	Government? INTERVIEWING, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0415par0441	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 31 of the Law Bill 278. I salute you all. As part of the judicial co-operation between the bill and the states, extradition of criminals, prosecution, the transfer of investigation and execution and the transfer of the prisoner are discussed under a single arrangement. Today, dangers such as terrorism, financial crimes and the spread of weapons of mass destruction pose a serious threat to national security. The country where cyber attacks on financial institutions and banks have been launched is often different from the country where those who have done so. It is often different from the country where the person who acts and acts in cyber attacks on countries' websites, in order to access the information of the state. In the fight against these inter-country issues, it is possible to co-operate among countries for the crime and for the capture of the criminal, but it is known that there is an interstate insincere insincere insincere lack of intimacy, that some states tolerate terrorist organisations operating in their countries, particularly political and financial support, support the activities of organisations, directly or indirectly, provide the basis and services for the vomiting of death. As a matter of fact, Turkey's separatist terrorist organisation, the PKK, has been protected and supported by some countries, including European countries. This bilateral stance prevents an internationally-dominated understanding of counterterrorism, causing terrorism to form a ground where it can find operating spaces all over the world, where it can refer to life and property. However, providing an event in the fight against terrorism requires a sincere and effective co-operation between countries. Dear MPs, it is stated that the transfer process will be carried out after the transfer of the foreign state to the prisoner and the foreign state to the execution institution, which has been decided to be transferred to Article 31, which we are discussing. It is also stated that the verdict issued by the foreign state will be executed according to Turkish law, that the authority to evaluate the demands of the conviction belongs to the foreign state tribunal, which has decided to evaluate the demands on the basis of the conviction, and Turkish courts do not have the authority to evaluate them. However, in the state or in Turkey where the sentence is issued during the execution, if a general or special pardon is accepted or a cause that removes crime or reduces punishment, the sentence can be reduced or eliminated, in accordance with the request of the extradition of those convicted in the foreign state to Turkey in the face of a severe criminal court's decision. In this respect, the bill will be considered, regardless of its contents, by linking the indictees of the 17-25 December money laundering and corruption investigation to abroad. If these individuals face a lesser sentence or shorter execution during trial or execution, the intent of this bill will be questioned, its legitimacy will be disputed. Dear lawmakers, what is important to us is that this bill contributes to the extradition of members of terrorist organizations who are protected in European Union countries, preventing separatism and support from separatist terrorist organizations in some countries, and to account for the rights of orphans. Our stance on all the arrangements envisioned as the National Movement Party determines whether or not it is for the benefit of our nation and our state. In this respect, I salute the General Assembly, expressing that our concerns continue on this bill.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0416par0448	Thank you. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 31 of the Law Bill 278 in which it is being discussed be replaced as the Chief Prosecutor's Office. Çağlar Demirel (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0417par0456	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0416par0457	Government? INTERVIEWING, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0418par0462	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, today, again, we're discussing the International Bill of Forensic Co-operation in Criminal Matters. When we consider Article 31, Article 31 considers a situation in Turkey concerning a retrial for the transport of people from other countries, or the end of the execution. Here, the ruling party, the Ministry, will decide again how they want to judge themselves or whether they will carry out the pardon situation due to any circumstances. I mean, we can make it very clear that this has something to do with pleasure. The government will bring people close to its own understanding and have them exonerate Turkey. So, again, as in other matters, if you think like me in Turkey, then you're mine, no problem. He'll be treated with understanding. If you don't think like I do, your place is prison; you'll stay there; you can be exiled; you can be tortured there; you can be in solitary cells. Those who were arrested for expressing their thoughts, as if the arrest wasn't enough, were exiled, as if it weren't enough, to continue their imprisonment in solitary confinement, and as today, when they came back to the agenda, we saw the decision to be released together with social pressure as a result. Yeah, today, here, we're not just dealing with this. In fact, as we consider this through international contracts, we also need to see Turkey's internal policy, the way they apply it in its prisons. Sadly, those arrested in any country in Europe are not on the agenda to see sick prisoners clawed to death by about a thousand sick prisoners while they are being executed here. In the same way, arresting Kurdish politicians in 2009 with illegal and illegal operations under the name "KCK"... those who were released from prison for five years after being in prison for five years are still not even in court to testify. As long as they were arrested in prison for five years, they were forced to be released after five years without even being brought to trial. Today, those who judge them are actually tried themselves, and those who judge them are thrown into prisons because we have seen once again in the courts how wrong they actually did in the secret witness hearings of those who co-existed with the parallel in the process and eventually said they had done wrong. Because in statements given by secret witnesses in the courts, there is a situation that has been discussed in a system of Turkey's Constitution and its law, which, in fact, goes through a completely false, false information that doesn't describe those individuals. On top of that, those who oppose unfair practices in 2009 arrests, those who later admit that this is wrong, today the ruling party has started again, again, political genocide operations under another name. On top of that, the politicians they arrested in political genocide operations -- all of which are our friends in the leadership of our party -- ask what party are you at? Those who have been arrested for their political work are the only questions asked. As if this was not enough, exiles have grown to an extent, unjust and unlawful practices in prisons have increased day by day. Why aren't we, HDP MPs, allowed to see prisons? This needs to be very clear to the people of Turkey because we've been prevented from speaking in Parliament about the unjust and unlawful practices that happened there, so we're not allowed to go to prisons, we're being treated as a arbitrary practice, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0419par0470	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 32 of Law Bill 278 (a) be replaced by the ibabe (a) of the (social) (social) iha (social) iha (social) in front of me as (sosososoyo-cultural). İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Bitlis Batman Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 32 of Article 32 of the International Adulteration Act of Criminal Co-operation Act on 278 rows be replaced at least six months (or six months) of the article (d) incumbent on Article 32 of Article 32 (d). Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Mustafa Akaydın Şenal Sarıhan Selina Doğan Ömer Fethi Gürer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the declaration of the International Criminal Co-operation Act on 278 rows of Article 32 of Article 32 (a) to find strong social ties with this state. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Mevlüt Karakaya Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Kamil Aydın Mehmet Günal Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0420par0494	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0419par0495	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0421par0500	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. In Article 32 of the bill, I have received a pledge on the motion of the National Party for Action. Of course, I made another promise on this bill. I talked about justice there. I have stated that justice and justice are the most fundamental function of government and government rulers. Justice is a very important foundation for God's sake. Justice is also the most judicious area to be placed in. These days, when we understand Happy Birthday Week... In an event, the Holy Prophet said that a day's just rule is better than sixty years of useless service. Our religion, our state, our Constitution, our traditions tell us how important justice is, and we all know it. Of course, it is not possible for us to underestimate the importance of the judicial and judicial system in establishing justice. Dear MPs, I'd like to talk about a constitutional amendment here, especially in 2010. You'll remember, in 2010, we brought a constitutional amendment to the public's agenda and brought it to the referendum. We have stated that the main goal in this constitutional amendment is to politicize the judiciary, especially as the National Movement Party, where the proposed change in the structure of the HSYK will be nothing more than politicising the judiciary. So as the National Movement Party, we said no in the referendum on the change of this Constitution. Remember that day, what was brought up in the Constitutional Amendment? It was a positive discrimination of women. What was it? It was preventing child abuse. What was it? It was an account from the September 12th junta. So, that day -- as the National Movement Party -- you criticized us in the Constitutional Amendment, when the change in the structure of the HSYK meant politicisation of the judiciary. But we all know what we've been going through for the past six or seven years, and what we've been talking about today. Aside from the positive discrimination of women, we all know that women's abuse has increased to thousands of percent of women's violence; these are the numbers spoken of. I guess there's no point in expressing child abuse. The account from the September 12th junta is also present. But, what happened? The judgment has become political. No one trusts the judgment today, no one trusts the judgment. So, as the National Movement Party, we stood in the right place that day, and if there was a safe reduction in justice and justice today, I would like to say that the place where the Justice and Development Party stood was particularly wrong. I salute your grand delegation here by expressing to them the need to make arrangements and corrections necessary to eliminate this weariness, this mistrust of justice.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0422par0506	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 32 of Article 32 of the International Adulteration Act of Criminal Co-operation Act on 278 rows be replaced at least six months (or six months) of the article (d) incumbent on Article 32 of Article 32 (d). Mehmet Gökdağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0423par0513	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0422par0514	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Gaziantep MP Mehmet Gökdağ will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Gökdağ.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0424par0519	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I'd like to express our views on freedom of the press at this time of night. Congressmans, freedom of the press is among the basic freedoms in all democratic countries. Freedom of the press is the foundation of a democratic society, the keeper of democracy. The media's watchfulness of democracy depends on its ability to carry out its duty to inform the public, its ability to work free and without pressure from power. Freedom of the press is such a fundamental freedom that where there is no freedom of the press, there is no talking about other rights and freedoms. Therefore, freedom of the press is a measure of whether the country's regime is a democracy. The freedom of the press must be removed from the perception of doing news that is only in favor of power. Its most important function is to ensure the right of public knowledge, but to control power, dear friends. When power forces use public power and public resources that they control for personal gain, they want to keep their activities secret. It is an antidemocratic act often applied by the authorities to prevent the public from being pressured by the press. Due to his tight ties to democracy, freedom of the press is widely interpreted by the European Court of Human Rights, dear friends. In exceptional cases, such as incitement to violence, racial rhetoric, insult, and violence alone, it is considered a limitation to the press. Now, let's take a look at the situation of the press in our country: Precious friends, journalism -- the area where freedom of thought and expression has to show itself in the most broadest way -- has been attacked and invaded in the time of AKP rulings, with no rules, without law. The AKP has tried everything to get the press under its control, has made its own allies own newspapers, has economically compressed what they don't have, has tried to silence journalists by sending them to prisons, sending them to jails, facing unemployment. Congressmans, today our country is living in the darkest period in its history in terms of freedom of thought and expression, and thus in terms of freedom of the press. The Prime Minister of the period who told the public what to read, what not to read, now you pay the president, and you have no right to cry out when you come to the corner tomorrow, excuse me, brother, there is no place for you in our store. The Prime Minister of the period, who threatened media bosses by saying, "There is no place for you in our store." Is it possible to talk about freedom of the press in our country, where that understanding prevails? Is it possible to talk about democracy in a country where the press isn't free? We're in a country where journalists are put in prisons only because they do journalism. Dear friends, we're going through a more severe and dangerous period than the coup d'état of September 12, 1980. Look, my friends, our country is 151,1, out of 180 countries, according to the 2016 World Press Freedom Index. According to this, Turkey is behind Uganda, Tanzania, Kenya, and in this sense, our democracy is behind these countries. Dear friends, let's not forget that free press is free society. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0425par0528	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 32 of Law Bill 278 (a) be replaced by the ibabe (a) of the (social) (social) iha (social) iha (social) in front of me as (sosososoyo-cultural). Mehmet Ali Aslan (Batman) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0426par0535	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0425par0536	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0427par0541	Mr. President, I salute Mr. Court and the General Assembly. In fact, I don't know -- it's really against scientific data and efficient work -- working all the time at this hour, I'm sure. Maybe we're still working when we need to wake up. That's why I think these hours should be taken into account. We had a motion in a matter earlier, a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, instead of a Turkish citizen of Turkey. The citizen of the Republic of Turkey is more inclusive and a country is actually a citizen of a state, not a citizen of a race. In addition to the infractions of the prison, we testify that workers and staff in prison have been victimized in some way. For example, the right to early retirement is not granted under the name "retired pension" even though death guards have the right to carry arms. That's what they deserve in that sense. They already have some kind of detention life because of their work in prisons, and they deserve early retirement under the name of the law enforcement share. Teachers deserve it. I'll also have a touch of the teachers, and I'm a teacher. In the same way, it was required to rotation the heads who had completed 15 years in prison with the latest practices. Everyone's uncomfortable with it, so the officers who are subject to it are uncomfortable. Why? It has been divided into regions, such as Istanbul, which has completed its 15 years in the first region, and has been forced to serve in another region. He's already established a life order there for fifteen years, his kids are going to school there, maybe he's got a house, etc., but this time he's told that you're going to go to Çanakkale, go to Mardin, and go to İstanbul. In the case of Mardin, perhaps he doesn't want to go to İstanbul, maybe he doesn't want to go to Hakkari, in İstanbul, but he is forced to choose between the law and the districts. In this sense, civil servants should be given the right to remain on their own initiative; prisons may change, but interstate change is something that workers do not approve of. I told you, teacher, yes, three students were under the wall at the Turgut Özal Elementary School in Diyarbakir district of Benusen last 30 March; two of them died and one of them was badly injured. When I was a teacher, when schools were open to education, teaching, the roofs of schools were being renovated during school hours, so their tiles were being renovated. Think about it, there's teaching somewhere, but there's construction, renovations, repairs. You can get to the other side if you let those tiles fall on a child's head, fall on an adult's head. Legal regulations need to be made in a hurry, and in a pedagogical sense, this is not appropriate. In a place where there is education, it is not right for noise and dangerous work to be done in a place where there is teaching, whether it is health or mental health. That needs to be taken into account. Those kids are all our kids. We could have children under those walls. This needs to be taken care of. I thank you and give you all my regards.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0428par0548	Thank you, Mr. Lion. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0429par0549	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit07spe0428par0550	All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0428par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 278. The commission is here. The government is here. There are three motions on Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "lose" of Article 33 of the International Adulteration Act on Criminal Matters 278 shall be replaced by the "destroyment" of the article (2). Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Mustafa Akaydın Omar Fethi Gürer Selina Doğan Tulipyuk Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "Designed to Central Palace" in Article 33 of Law Bill 278, which is currently in session, shall be changed to "Designed to Central Assembly." İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Mizgin Irgat Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "knowledges" of Article 33 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act in Article 278, which is currently in session, be replaced as "other developments along with information." İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Kamil Aydın Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mehmet Parsak Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0430par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0428par0030	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0431par0035	St. Turkic nation, respected lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. We have three martyrs between my two speeches, a mercy from the great God to our martyrs, and my condolences to all our nation. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on our proposal for Article 33 of the International Administration Act on Criminal Matters. Article 33 of the bill determines the consequences of the execution of verdicts issued by the Turkish judiciary by foreign states. The entire bill includes statements that will allow terrorist criminals, who have been secretly supported in foreign states, to suffer their punishment in a suitable place, as there is no additional provision for their extradition to Turkey or for the prevention of their housing in those states. On the other hand, at every point of the bill, the central authorities, the Minister of Justice, are authorized to handle all special circumstances that may occur during transport and execution procedures. Congressmans, I regret to inform the so-called foreign mission chiefs of the PKK, Sabri Ok and Mustafa Karasu, who do not give you the proper understanding, we find it difficult to trust a government during international co-operation. Again, I regret to inform you that we have come here on orders from terrorists who welcome terrorists by setting up tent courts in Habur, who download the Ataturk portraits in tent courts so that the terrorists don't be disturbed. Despite their statement of regret, you regret it! We find it difficult to rely on a government that allows terrorists to benefit from the law of regret in the matter of international transport and execution. In a government that closes corruption and bribery investigations in one night on December 17-25, we find it difficult to imagine that a government that keeps judges, prosecutors, prosecutors, from deposed or changing their position, will then take measures to ensure that justice is served by Mr. President and those who stand in front of them and return their money with interest. We're prosecutors of this case through the prime minister's office." We find it difficult to believe that a government owned by its explanations and was responsible for the illegalities of the Ergenekon case yesterday, allowing people to die, to be discredited, their families to break up, to demoralize their psychology, to protect the dignity and interests of the Turkish state within the framework of international judicial cooperation. Congressmans, at every point in history, it's customary that we, as generations of people of a trade whose name is associated with justice, are in a position to argue over the European Union's visa-free transit awards by night, while we are in a position to debate the sloppy laws on justice by morning, in its lightest terms. Justice belongs to us Turks, not to Europe, but to Mete Khan; to the Prophet, to the Prophet, to the prophet, to the prophet, to the prophet, to the Sultan Mehmet, to Sultan Süleyman. I would like to remind you that on the 96th anniversary of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the first Parliamentary Speaker Mustafa Kemal Ataturk expressed his view of justice. One of those qualities is that a man who proposes the law, who makes the law, who makes the law, must understand and know all of mankind's feelings, all of its ambitions, more than anyone else's. But in doing so, he must have the power and the ability to distinguish himself from events more than anyone else." He wishes that this spirit in the establishment of the High Assembly be understood and modeled, and I hereby salute the Veterans Assembly once again.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0432par0047	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "Designed to Central Palace" in Article 33 of Law Bill 278, which is currently in session, shall be changed to "Designed to Central Assembly." Mizgin Irgat (Bitlis) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0433par0054	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0432par0055	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Mizgin Irgat of Bitlis will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0434par0060	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, yes, at this hour of the night, we're actually discussing a subject that has become a Zul. So we need to talk about Turkey's justice system, the European Union system, all of this in the process of integration into the European Union. While talking about child abuse, the orator here has just voiced the data, including the AKP's ranks, and a women's MP has objected. I'm really sorry about that as a woman. I think women should be the last to talk about child abuse. Because, as women stand closest to life in life, children should be the ones who make the most noise about it. We came from Karaman a few days ago. We all watched that file together, followed that promise. I think the Karaman incident alone reveals that the system for children in Turkey, the system for women in any way, is actually pathetic. In three years of unsupervised schools, the children who were there for the sake of education in their homes, it's something that can't be forgotten even after hundreds of years. Are there schools in the European Union that haven't been audited for three years? When we look at the European Union, which has actually studied itself from women's life, employment, to education, to the entire judicial establishment, and is working on it, it's actually very different from history. At this point, you have to look at the puritans. Those who fled from the king's tyranny and settled in North America became the ones who signed the declaration of basic rights and human rights that lay the foundations of law today as a result of their own struggle. Yes, and we believe that the oppressed people of this country, the people of this country's poor living conditions, will change the system of this country. We believe that very sincerely. Yes, and we know very well that the data on child abuse doesn't really reflect the truth. Because today, hundreds of criminal complaints have been filed against the Ensar Foundation all over the country -- the judge who came about the Ensar Foundation -- who looked into it himself. Thus, we understand that at this point all the children in the dorms are being trained in great danger. On this basis, we face the fact that the control system will be reviewed once again, that we will examine our laws and controls by acting on the principle of the superior benefit of the child. Actually, I was going to say a few things about the arrest. The arrest, unfortunately, has become more of a punishment than a measure in our country. Anyone who stands in front of him, such as an arrest and detention with a protection measure, has become a system in which everyone who criticizes power is taken, thrown out. Therefore, we need to change our arrangement for arrest - protection measures. Because at this point, the judges, the judges, are under review, unable to make their own decisions freely due to the concern of inspection. We believe that justice will not be justified, not by the arresting judge, but by the judge who has to arrest him at this point, because he's being questioned. In this sense, the legal system in Turkey is injured, painful, painful. At the point of rights and freedoms, we have to get rid of the humiliation of arrest. And the only way to get rid of this shame is through this House, where we think we can get rid of it by finding the real solutions to the laws, the decisions in this House, the real problems here. On behalf of our peoples here in the coming days, we wish to meet in the future when all problems have been resolved, especially the Kurdish problem, on behalf of the people of Turkey, without child abuse or violence for women. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0435par0064	Thank you, too, Mr. Irgat. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "lose" of Article 33 of the International Adulteration Act on Criminal Matters 278 shall be replaced by the "destroyment" of the article (2). Tulip Carabinieri (Bursa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0436par0071	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0435par0072	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Tulip will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Carabinieri.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0437par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding Article 33 of Law Bill 278. Yeah, I was just talking about some data. Dear Regents, if you want to solve a problem, you have to first see and accept the facts. That's what we're doing. If we intend to solve the problem, we'll talk to the real data. Look, I'd like to give you a few more data. We know that in 35 OECD countries, we are ranked 34 percent in the equal of opportunities for children. Every month, 650 children come to the Medical Examiner's Office with a sexual assault case. In 2014, 40,256 children were sued for sexual harassment. Dear Regents, my sources are TÜİK. The Mother Child Education Foundation is UNICEF. It's the Ministry of Justice. It's the Children's Inflicted Association. It's the World Health Organization report data, and I've submitted three more resources to your representatives.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0438par0082	Did you give it to the deputy who asked?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0437par0083	Yes, I did, sir. Congressmans, I'm a 27-year-old academic, a professor. I never speak without resources and references when I give data in my speeches, and I come from a tradition like this. I'd like to present this to you for your information. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, I'd like to talk about another sad piece of data that belongs to the World Health Organization again. Child abuse in the world ranges from 1 per cent to 10 per cent compared to countries, but in Turkey, it's between 10 per cent and 53 per cent.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0439par0087	Where's the data?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0437par0088	Now I'd like to move on to something else.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0439par0089	Where's that kind of data?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0437par0090	I gave the data to your friend.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0440par0091	Congressmans, please do not interfere with the speaker.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0439par0092	We don't have that kind of data. You don't know anything about the world.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0437par0093	Here, sir, I'll give it to you, but don't take my time.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0441par0094	Okay, don't give it to me. Come on.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0442par0095	Mr. Speaker, don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0437par0096	I'll give you the data when I leave here.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0441par0097	Don't go, come back, we'll send it later.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0442par0098	You address the General Assembly, please.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0443par0099	We're asking about the source, Mr. Hodja. What do we call the source?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0444par0100	Sir, here's the source.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0445par0101	He's leaving. He's gone.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0446par0102	Mr. Speaker, please do not leave the bench.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0445par0103	Why are you leaving the bench?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0447par0104	But, sir, they're such a nuisance.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0446par0105	You can give it to me later.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0447par0106	I mean, they don't let me talk anymore.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0446par0107	Well, that's the kind of place this is, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0447par0108	Yeah, well, unfortunately, I'm getting used to it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0446par0109	So you've got to get used to it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0447par0110	Guys, there's nothing to laugh about, there's a point to cry about. Please, I'll have your attention.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0448par0111	Teacher, come back to us.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0447par0112	This data needs crying, not laughing, and solutions.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0449par0113	Teacher, tell us, we hear, tell us.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0447par0114	Yes, I wanted to make a point to the Minister.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0450par0115	It's not the World Health Organization's page, it's not.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0447par0116	In the disputes between men and women in domestic violence, how right is it to come between the police of the state, military, judge, psychologist, social worker, expert, and man? So, how else are we going to establish the state of law? Minister, I'd like to remind you of Article 41 of the Constitution. The 41st article states that the family is the basis of the Turkish community and is based on equality between spouses. With the welfare and well-being of the family, the state takes the necessary measures to protect the mother and children in particular, establishes the organization and takes protective measures against any abuse. Now, sir, ever since I spoke, in my previous speech, and in this one, a constant data review. This data is obvious. I don't understand why you're objecting to this. It's especially sad when the female MPs object.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0451par0118	And you know what our objection is? So we can't be the third place in the world.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0447par0119	There weren't one deputy here yesterday when we were talking about education with children.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0451par0120	It may be a problem, but the world is not the third.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0447par0121	Sir, there weren't one deputy here. Please examine the data I gave you, run it through sources. Let's all sit down and put our hats in front of us and work out the solutions to these problems. Yes, my dear children and dear citizens, I sincerely wish to congratulate you on your April 23rd National Sovereignty and Children's Day. Thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0452par0126	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 34: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the expenditures made to fulfil the request in Article 34 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on 278 rows shall be changed into the payment of the request. Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Selina Doğan Mustafa Akadın Ömer Fethi Gürer Şenal Sarıhan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of the International Adli Co-operation Act on 278 rows in which it is being discussed after the declaration of Article 34 of Article (1) of Article 34 of the International Adulteration Act on Criminal Matters. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Kamil Aydın Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of Article 34 of Law 278 shall be changed to the bank account in Article (3) of Article 34 of the Common Law. İdris Baluken Mehmet Eminadiyaman Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Ali Aslan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0453par0151	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0452par0152	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0454par0157	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's April 23rd as of now. April 23, 1920, the first day of the opening of this House. On the first day of the opening of this Parliament, the Turkish or Ottoman lands were occupied and the Turkish Parliament of the Grand National Assembly of Şark Provinces Law Society, Erzurum and Sivas Congresss met in Ankara, as a result of the Amasian Protocols. Who was in the House that day? There were Kurdistan MPs, there were Lazistan MPs, and there were MPs in every part of Ottoman territory that was occupied; there were Kurds, there were Albanians, there were Circiks, there were Arabs.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0455par0159	And now you've got one.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0456par0160	For God's sake, there is now.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0454par0161	There were the sphericals, there were the Alevis of faith, there were the Sunnis, there were the Christians. Listen, sir, listen, I'll read it to you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0457par0162	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker, please.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0454par0163	Dear friends, these multicolored, multi-religious, multicultural congressmen had a common will, a common goal, a common goal.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0458par0164	There is now. Don't use the past tense, there is now.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0454par0165	And their common goal was to save the country, save it from invasion, and build a new system, a new world on this saved country. And the concrete expression of this was made into a written document in the Law of the Organization, which is the concrete expression of this common feeling, this common thought, the common goal, and the institutional philosophy. The will of the parliament's lawmakers gathered that day was concretely destroyed. And I'm reading the 1st article, my friends, only the 1st article: the balance of justice is the condition of the nation. The first sentence is for the nation without conditions. So, what does his second sentence say? It is based on the self-responsibility and wisdom of the people of administration. Guys, I'm not reading the other stuff, I'm reading another item. The 11th article is about the province. How did the Parliament of that day come together in that parliament, representing the will of the people, come together in what common cause? How were they going to build the system, what was the procedure? You know what he says? I'm reading: the county area cares about its spiritual personality and its importance. I mean, external and internal politics care about evil and soldiers, brainelmilial economic monoliths and government, as well as the government's public monolith, more than the province, the province, the province, the province, and the administration of Nafia and Muvenia -- which are separate -- are the inventors of the club, Medaris, Maarif, Maahi, the Minister, Agriculture, and the administration of the great nation. So in the People's Democratic Party's programme today, you can also wear the autonomy requirement or democratic autonomy or other names of the local governments that we stand for today, which are under the rule of the People's Democratic Party.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0459par0170	Federation! Twist it!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0454par0171	Yes, that's the will. Guys, it's willpower. So, what happened to the will?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0459par0173	He's changed at 23.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0454par0174	The founding philosophy of this House, whether you call it a nation or a nation, no matter how you describe the name, but on that day, the will that created a new country within the borders of Mysmelic is this will. What happened to that willpower? In 1924, this will was destroyed by a civil coup, a civil blow by Admission and Terakki. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm gonna keep going, guys. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0460par0180	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0461par0182	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0460par0183	Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of the International Adli Co-operation Act on 278 rows in which it is being discussed after the declaration of Article 34 of Article (1) of Article 34 of the International Adulteration Act on Criminal Matters. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0462par0189	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0460par0190	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0463par0195	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the behalf of the MHP on Article 34 of Bill 278. I salute you all. In terms of criminal agreements and bilateral agreements, cooperation has been made in these areas, and this is the final example of the introduction of Noble Nadir, who was sentenced to prison in England. The law must not be discriminated against in terms of its implementation. The practice of what comes our way is wrong for me to apply or escape when it does not work for us. This understanding will benefit its owners in the short term, but it will not benefit the country. Dear lawmakers have paid $490m in fines for selling illegal pharmaceuticals to doctors in China in recent years. A company called AVON signed an agreement to expose corruption by paying $300m to the research commission, considering the extent of the penalties it would have to pay if it was discovered. The claims that Mercedes bribed public officials in 22 countries between 1998 and 2008 turned out to have been bribed by a lawsuit launched in the United States. As a matter of fact, he was sentenced to pay $185 million to the Justice Department and the stock market. J. P. The company, Morgan, has paid $9.6 billion in fines in the United States for the corruption scandal. In China, another pharmaceutical company, Pfizer, paid $60.2 million for the bribery scandal. Siemens reportedly bribed $2.1 billion in 20 countries, including Turkey, while Turkey claims that the bribe was 57m euros. IBM had to pay $11 million. In Germany, the chip maker Infineon, BMW, Volkswagen, bribes were subject to serious investigations by the Lighthouse corruption, international corruption allegations, drug dealers, arms traffickers, blood-soaked, dirty diamond traffickers, including international bank deposits, even in FIFA. See, many of these companies also operate in Turkey. No one can argue that bribers in other countries did not distribute in Turkey. Yeah, well, if we don't have a document, it's wiser to rule that it's being distributed mentally and comparatively. So, if we want to establish a real democracy, the first thing we do is make sure that transparency dominates this country. And the way to do that is to take any bribery claim seriously. If we shut up when we have all the power to do it, or we ignore the interests of the higher will, or some expectations, the regret we'll have in the future won't do us any good. The fact that societies will lose while individual corruption is winning should not be ignored. Dear lawmakers, look, the latest claim on bribery is media reports that the Swiss-based international pharmaceutical company has earned unfair profits for bribes in Turkey. According to reports, allegations of a Swiss-based pharmaceutical company providing a new business worth 85m dollars by handing out bribes in Turkey via a consulting company. That's $85 million, that's $240-250 trillion in old money. The claim consists of adding the drugs produced by the company to public hospitals, purchase lists -- i.e. payment lists -- and changing the names of the two drugs in Turkey by public consent. It is one of the issues in Turkey where there are various immoral attempts to get medicine or any medical material on the payment list, bribes distributed, gossiped about. For these reasons, this matter must be seriously focused, everything must be done in order for the truth to come out, just as civilized, forward, in the countries in which full democracy is implemented. I complete my words here, and salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0464par0202	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the expenditures made to fulfil the request in Article 34 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on 278 rows shall be changed into the payment of the request. Kemal Zeybek (Samsun) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0465par0209	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0464par0210	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Agha. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Agha, did you sign the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0466par0216	I think I signed it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0464par0217	You don't have an autograph. Sign it, please.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0467par0218	Start the clock, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0464par0219	Guys, give me a break. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0467par0221	I'm clapping!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0464par0222	Mr. Nurettin Yasar, please...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0468par0223	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we live together in an exemplary time. Now, as Ozgur said, the applauding MP may listen to this and learn a little bit.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0469par0225	One more round of applause, one more time!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0468par0226	Now we have all gone through an important period for all of us, dear friends, and this period has had significant consequences. Of course, there are two kinds of people in this period, from the point of view. One, as these cases go on, there's a group of people who will be ashamed, blushed as these results are seen, and there's people who defend this with honor. Now, dear friends, these discussions will continue, and we will continue to recall your words in the past. Now, important political cases have been raised during the AKP's age of apprenticeship. Then we lived together in a time when you called it the revolution, where you played an important role in the 2010 referendum. I'd like to say that the Republican People's Party Group, the President of the Republican People's Party, the MPs, said that this referendum would take Turkey back, destroy the law at every turn, and we strongly opposed it at every opportunity, despite any kind of black propaganda. We said this referendum would take the justice system back and forth in Turkey. The forces, the alliances, who defended the referendum before us, saw this referendum as a salvation. An alliance emerged in this referendum, or rather an alliance made a picnic, reached its highest point. The September 12, 2010 referendum was a Pirus victory for someone, for you. This campaign had several partners, several partners, dear friends. Some of them did not, but, yes, the liberals, the leftists, the leftists, the leftists, and the so-called authors, who were given the authority and the position. There's a lot of examples.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0469par0228	It's a column, not a column, it's a false statement.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0468par0229	Now he's beating up the important part of his knee, and he says that you were right, and that they tricked us. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, some of the quitters in this alliance, and for hire pens remain the voice of their owners, and the central media has now taken the role of commissioner.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0470par0232	Name, name.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0468par0233	You have another ally who sees this referendum as life and death, and that partner of yours is very important. Look, he stepped on your ally's back, and from time to time, and from time to time, you took his skirt, kissed his skirt, and came to power in 2002, and then you strengthened your power, and your partner, this buddy, your dear friend...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0471par0234	Now he's your friend.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0472par0235	Now he's with you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0468par0236	What did he say when he made this campaign: "Let's raise our dead, let's get them to vote, right?"
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0473par0237	Who is it?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0468par0238	Who is this partner of yours? Look, let me remind you. You know, you guys are the world's weakest memory party. You know, you're the world's weakest memory lawmakers. Look, let me remind you of this partner, maybe you'll look at him and be embarrassed.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0474par0239	You insult the MPs by saying so!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0468par0240	Do you have that face? I don't know! [[Applause from CHP rows]] This is your ally, your partner, your Master, your Master, your Master. I didn't say it, I never said it. I said what I'm saying now. You were saying? There are witnesses here, friends from 2011 to 2014 that we have served as MPs together.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0475par0243	Read the Republican newspaper, Republican newspaper.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0468par0244	You were saying? You said it was true what His Holiness said.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0475par0245	Have you ever read the Republican newspaper, Republican newspaper?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0468par0246	Now what? This is your buddy. Your best friend, your best friend, who you've formed all kinds of dirty alliances and slaughtered people with! Look, shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0475par0247	Veli, do you read the Republic, Republic?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0468par0248	Look, I'll put this here, so be ashamed!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0475par0249	Put a Republican newspaper there, a Republican newspaper; put a Speaker there, Speaker.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0468par0250	Dear friends, what did he say? I'll remind you of this photo. Look, what did the teacher say at the time here, Your Highness? Let's get the dead out of here. What was that saying? He used all sorts of things; he thought of the left, and cried; and he thought of the angels, and he cried. He said one more thing: he used all sorts of things, sects, all kinds of things, you name it. What was he saying? We will destroy the reign of the grandfathers. He used whatever you could think of. Dear friends, do you know what happened next?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0475par0251	Veli, read the Republic.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0468par0252	Do you know what the man who made this alliance said? He said, "We've been tricked." [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I'll keep going, there's more, stop, don't rush, there's more.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0476par0256	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0477par0257	Matter is more important, Mr. President. It doesn't require an answer.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0476par0258	I submit the item to your votes: Those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There are two motions in Article 35: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of relationship be changed as...... in Article 35..................................................................................................... İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 35 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278. Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Mustafa Akaydın Şenal Sarıhan Selina Doğan Ömer Fethi Gürer The regulations for the implementation of this Law are enforced by the Ministry of Justice. Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0478par0276	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0476par0277	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Orhan Sarıbal will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0479par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I arrived from Diyarbakır two hours ago today. Again, unfortunately, I came across a wonderful collection model of 13 years of AKP power.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0480par0283	By God, we can't get out of the House, we can't go anywhere, you are.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0479par0284	I'll tell you right from the start, let's share this collection model that your friends, Mahdi Eker and Faruk Çelik, who pray about agriculture and become ministers, have done in the village of Turkmenhacı. This is the first time we've had this conversation, this is going to grow, we're going to tell you, but let's share it with you right at the beginning. The village is 250 households; they don't want jobs, they don't want food, they have 37,000 acres; they get water from underground, they grow wheat, they plant corn, they plant lentils, they contribute to the economy of this country. They prefer to grow the lentil not from Canada, but from the district of Silopi, Diyarbakır. He put together a collection there. Who? The Ministry of Justice and Development. Let's see how he did it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0480par0285	What's the silopi connected to?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0481par0286	Where's the silopi connected?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0480par0287	Silopi is a district of Şırnak Province, Turkey.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0481par0288	Are you opposed to massification?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0482par0289	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0290	When we're publicizing a place, we're going to take infrastructure there, we're going to build roads, we're going to bring electricity, we're going to collect electricity, we're going to make more, we're going to make more modern production, it says. Let's see. Dear friends, dear lawmakers...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0484par0292	What are we looking at?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0485par0293	Congressmans, are you all on the stand?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0294	... You took away the property of the citizen, transferred it to one of your own party members.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0484par0295	We're learning which is connected to the silopi, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0296	Diyarbakır, Silopi.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0484par0298	Silopi is not connected to Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0299	Oh, yeah? Okay, okay, okay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0486par0300	Bismil, Bismil, Bismil.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0484par0301	Diyarbakır has no such district.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0302	Oh, okay, Bismil, yeah, okay, Bismil.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0487par0303	Mr. Sarıbal, please, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0304	Now, in Turkmenhacı village... [[Let's hear it for the AK PARTY!]] Give it up. It doesn't matter, these are the land of Anatolian geography.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0488par0308	I mean, just so you know.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0489par0309	You don't even know where you're from, home!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0310	Maybe you should find out. You must learn.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0490par0311	Mr. Turan, would you please tell your friends that I don't hear it?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0312	What you're doing is destroying the law...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0491par0313	Very good talk, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0490par0314	Are they having a conversation?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0315	... You know those laws you thought would be integrated with Europe, the criminal charges?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0492par0316	Intimacy! Intimacy!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0317	... In fact, it's an example of how great assimilation you've made in this country, how bad you've done. I'll give you all the details at the following meetings. That's exactly what you do: you take the land from the people, you cut it 30% when you have to cut it 10%, that's one.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0493par0318	Where's 30 percent?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0319	Two: you're comparing the first-class agricultural area to the third-class farmland, where your own ally buys the land.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0493par0320	You're slandering me.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0321	There are deeds on paper, literally land on someone else's property, someone else's deed.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0494par0322	When?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0323	Right next to you, you'll get all the stuff I'll show you. These will give you a lot of trouble, don't worry. He didn't make history, you wrote it, the AKP made power. If you ask Mehdi Eker, he'll say so.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0495par0324	You read history, we write history!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0325	Now he's in charge of the minister, and we'll see how he can clean up the Turkmenhaci village. You take a piece of paper that belongs to someone else. With that land, you get 14 trillion from the Agriculture Bank.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0495par0327	We made history, you became history!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0496par0328	It's a polygraph!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0329	14 trillion, you're hurting the public.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0496par0330	Wrong.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0331	That's not enough, the public doesn't know you're selling the land to someone else. There's a second round-up decision to stop massing on it, and unfortunately the Ministry isn't stopping it, so what's he doing? Although it has a restraining order on it, the land is sold to second, third parties on paper. He's got 80 acres of land, wind blows in the field, land is elsewhere; that land is divided into parcels of land and, unfortunately, given to your followers. I'm going to tell them one by one, parcel, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot. This is gonna hurt more than you're gonna get.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0497par0333	Speak in a clean language, Mr. Speaker, please don't insult me.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0483par0334	I'm going to show you how much assimilation you've done, how much damage you've done to people, one by one, and I'm going to prove to you what your justice is. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0497par0337	A quiet one, please... I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of relationship be changed as...... in Article 35..................................................................................................... Mehmet Emin Adıyaman (Iğdır) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0498par0344	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0497par0345	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0499par0350	Thank you, Mayor. Dear lawmakers, we've discussed the 1920 Parliament. Look, I'm reading to you the statement of a Kurdistan MP who was in the parliament that day, just as we are now in Parliament, before the Lauzan Treaty of Lausanne in this Parliament: The Europeans say that Kurds are the largest of the minorities living in Turkey, the most numerous of the Kurds. I am Kurds, the Kurdish son of Kurds. I assure you, the Kurds want nothing. We Kurds used to violate all the rights given by Europe's Sevr rag with six of our feet, and we returned them to those who meant to agree with us. Just as we fought at the Al Jazeera Front, as we shed our blood with the Turks, we didn't leave them, we didn't want to leave them, and we don't want to. This is Yusuf Ziya Bey. And do you know what happened to this Yusuf Ziya Bey, my friends? After the adoption of the 1924 Constitution, he was executed along with Halit Bey of Jibran, who had opposed the Constitution, about a month before the start of Sheikh Sait Mutiny. Yes, he was in this parliament, like us, executed in the prison of Yusuf Ziya Bey Bitlis, who, in Turkey's founding, said these words in the Battle of Salvation, who tore and threw Sevr.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0500par0353	Why are you taking care of Sykes Picot?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0499par0354	Who's taking care of it? You own Sykes Picot, not us, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0501par0355	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0499par0356	Sykes Picot is the one who divided our geography into four parts. Do we own it?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0502par0357	You're taking care of it right now, you're taking care of it right now.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0499par0358	Now, dear friends, let's not get carried away. Now, the 1924 Constitution has upset this pluralistic structure of the 1921 Constitution, its decentralisation structure. There's been a civilian coup.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0502par0360	Let's go up against the modern Sykes Picot.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0499par0361	And in one statement, I said here, this is the green version of Ithiat and Terakki, which carried out the coup d'état of the 1924 Constitution.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0502par0362	If you love God, let go!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0499par0363	That's the one. The AK PARTY has been in power for 14 years.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0503par0365	This power has not slept, this power has not slept!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0504par0366	Let's break this global game!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0499par0367	Look, when he came to power, the AK PARTY said that New Turkey was a democratic republic.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0504par0368	Let's break this Sykes Picot in a hundred years!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0499par0369	Dear friends, look, it's very simple - do we agree on a common country?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0504par0370	It's been a hundred years!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0499par0371	Do we agree on the flag?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0504par0372	I believe in your sincerity, let's spoil it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0499par0373	Friends, answer the question: do we agree with the common country?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0504par0374	We are.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0499par0375	Do we agree with the flag?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0504par0376	We are.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0499par0377	Are we in agreement with the invasion march?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0505par0379	What are you negotiating?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0506par0380	They burn flags on the streets, no partnerships, no partnerships.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0507par0381	Is this a company, what partnership?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0508par0382	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0509par0383	Then we don't have a problem with the regime, which Mr. President and the EC PARTY Group have expressed on this bench... neither do we. We have a problem with the system. Your problem with the system is the presidential system...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0510par0384	It's not, it's not.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0509par0385	...our problem is the surrender of our common will, which we agreed upon in the Constitution of 1921, which is as simple as that.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0510par0386	Mr. Adıyaman, we know it well, we know it well.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0509par0387	There's no need for that, no need for politics, no need for that. It's our right to share the Constitution of 1921, our right to lead the War of Salvation together, not much.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0510par0388	You won't take it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0509par0389	If this Parliament accepts the Constitution of 1921 right now, the Kurdish issue will be solved on the basis of the Kurdish problem, there will be no problem.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0510par0390	Read the rest of the stuff, come on.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0509par0391	Look, I'll give you more examples: look, between 1924 and 1950...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0511par0392	Do you have these in the Constitution of 1921?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0510par0393	You won't admit it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0509par0394	Sir, you're the last one to talk, you're the last one. You read a date, then talk.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0510par0395	Speak for your party: do you accept the Constitution of 1921?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0509par0396	Sykes-Picot is the agreement that divided Kurdistan into four parts, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0510par0397	Let's break it. Don't be a dick, let's break it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0509par0398	Now, 1925-1950 was ruled by extraordinary conditions for twenty-five years, east of Fırat.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0510par0399	You will not accept the Constitution of 1921.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0509par0400	Until 1964, not a single stranger has been able to enter the area without permission.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0510par0402	Are you up for the 1921 Constitution? Are you in? Ask your party, come.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0512par0403	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0509par0404	Look, you guys, you've all read these reports, right?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0512par0405	Mr. Adıyaman, your time is up, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0509par0406	I'll continue later, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0513par0409	Read the Constitution of 1921, come.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0509par0410	No one escapes history.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit08spe0514par0411	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a lot of noise, and I'm gonna ask for five minutes, and please don't make this kind of noise again.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0514par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 278. The commission is here. The government is here. On the 36th article, there are three proposals, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As part of the 36th article of the Common Law Bill of 278 rows, we propose and propose that the declaration be changed from date to date. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan of Mahmoud Celadet Bagadal The signatures of the other motion are: İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Kamil Aydın Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 36 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Matters 278 rows in the following way. Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Mustafa Akaydın Şenal Sarıhan Selina Doğan Ömer Fethi Gürer "MEDDE 36-1) As of the date when this Law was adopted; A) 3/3/1977 and 3 of the Law on the Approvement and Applying of the European Convention for the Transfer of Criminal Prosecutions No. 2080. Articles, B) 4 of the Law on the ratification and implementation of the European Convention on the International Value of Penal Courts No. 2081, dated 1/3/1977. The first and third jokes of the article are five. Articles, C) 8/5/1984 Turkish Citizens' Court of Foreign Land and Foreign Courts on Foreign Land and Foreign Courts Against the Execution of Penalties of Turkish Courts, ) 18 of Turkish Penal Code No. 5237 dated 26/9/2004. Articles, It's off-limits. Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0515par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0514par0033	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0038	Dear friends, this is the newspaper Zaman. Earlier, until this fell out between you and Master Hodja, all the MPs here were subscribers, so raise your hand if there's anyone who isn't a subscriber.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0517par0039	It's not me, it's not me.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0514par0040	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0041	And then, look, some of you bureaucrats, you remember walking around under your seat in the Time Journal?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0517par0043	You're lying, not me.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0514par0044	I'm telling you to be available, be available, shut up.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0045	Some of you put it on the end of the table, like this, like this, like this, like this, like this, like this, like this, like this, like this, like this, like this.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0514par0047	Mr. Agha, this isn't a theater scene, this is a council seat, please.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0048	I'll keep telling you this, even if it bothers you. Now, some of them subscribed to this paper, some of them put it on the officer's desk, why? To rise. One of the conditions for rising, coming to a place was this newspaper. Guys, we don't need to fool each other. I know you, you know me, you tell me, you tell me.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0518par0051	I know you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0519par0052	Buy one, get two free...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0053	Dear friends, there's a beautiful cartoon that puts you out like this, look what it says here, fellas. He says he's putting out the present, read: "Yay, AKP has locked up Ergenekons." Another news, yay, took out the AKP Ergenekons. What does it say here? Yay, the AKP is very interesting.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0520par0055	Is that you? Is that you?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0056	Friends, yay, the AKP is very interesting! And the same thing, the same group, friends, the same cartoon-- look, I'm not doing this, you're doing this, what do I do?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0521par0057	Just don't get excited.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0058	Friends, for God's sake, put your hand on your conscience, we've passed 2008, this is your brother's MP in 2011. I've been a legislator for four years, there's no trial I haven't been to, and I've been to trials I've been to, and I've told you here. What did you say? Look here, your group vice president is here, he said. In fact, on his way to a Ergenekon hearing, he found a picture of my fight, if you remember what you were saying? Now, what do you say? Quite the opposite.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0522par0060	Striker!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0061	Dear friends, if there's a coupger, it's you, you're the coupger!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0523par0063	You were a hit man, you were a hit man.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0064	In September 2010, the challengers were the heroes of the coup to win that referendum. Strikers, you coupgers! [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] You know that other master of yours, Master Hodja, that other Master, what was Erbakan saying? You're a coupger, aren't you? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Dear friends, I'm going to show you a few headlines to describe your mood. Look, friends, dear friends, you may be embarrassed, but I'm going to read it, so I'm sorry. What's he saying? What's he saying? He says to respect those who operate clean hands. What's he saying? He says, "God bless this prosecutor, we are no longer afraid." What's he saying? Our prosecutors work day and night in the law, he says. What's he saying? The prosecutor investigates everyone and says, "Did he study law for no reason?" The prosecutor, Oz, is a hero, has claimed responsibility for the historical mission. And he wants his statue planted.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0524par0069	Mr. President, I'm so pleased with Malatya from Veli. I'm glad we have Veli here!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0070	I'm proud to say there's not a single member of this group who praises Prosecutor Oz. There's not a single MP who makes Prosecutor Oz a hero. Congratulations to this group, congratulations to this group.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0524par0072	Thank God you're here! Bravo!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0073	You know what your spokesman says: "In this country, he will be built." I don't know if you stitched it up, maybe you could put a wreath on it, so you can do it. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, look, look, what does the Morning newspaper that you've been reading about now, after the morning prayer say: "The life of 19 coupgers." Who's this? Who's that? Your haram media, the pool media. What does it say about the paper you made stealing from the poor's pocket, from the poor's safe? Life of 19 coupgers.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0525par0076	Speak in a clean language, Mr. Agha, please...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0077	What does the official broadcast say? What's that same newspaper saying over there? The magistrate's plot has been broken. It's the same newspaper. It's a newspaper that's on your side, like the Zaman newspaper now.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0526par0078	You look after the Republic, the Republic. What's the Republic doing, what's the Speaker doing?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0079	Otherwise, you'll be embarrassed, otherwise... take a hit... take a hit...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0527par0080	Mr. Aghababa, please speak in a clean language, this is the MP.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0081	There's been another... sentence for the junta. These are your official publications.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0528par0082	Mr. President, let him speak this way, I'll take Veli.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0083	Look, guys, we're gonna keep saying this. What does it say, what does your current aide media say, and what does it say here?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0529par0084	Pick up, pick up...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0085	Let's get it open, let's get it open, what does it say? There is no such organization. So, now, aren't those who write it ashamed? Well, aren't the lawmakers ashamed or blushing? I ask you, aren't you blushing?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0530par0086	Doesn't yours blush when you go out to the Milky Way?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0087	Didn't you say yesterday? Didn't you say they were murderers?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0531par0090	Veli Agha...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0516par0091	I'll keep saying it, I'll keep saying it, I'll keep saying it, I'll keep saying it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0532par0093	Mr. Agha, your time is up, please... I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0533par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0532par0096	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0533par0097	Mr. President, I don't think it's appropriate for me to respond to that tone, but I'd like to take your word for it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0532par0098	Here you go. Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0534par0100	In the meantime, I'd like to declare that the gentleman is our benefactor in Malatya. What would we do without him?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0532par0102	Okay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0535par0105	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all at this hour of the night. There are only a few items left in the proposed bill. I insist, we're following the process with suhulet, trying to take it down so we don't waste time, so it's not polemic, but I felt the need to make a promise to make a note of the speech of the former CHP deputy. Cemil Meric is a superior civilization. I remind him. In the same way, I remind Montesquieu. He who shouts too much thinks too little.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0536par0108	There was no thought in it!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0535par0109	I don't think it's the kind of thing that's going to get too loud, sometimes too hard to talk about, even if we don't understand it. There's a case, and the whole of Turkey is watching this case on screen. The whole world knows the case has been diluted, the case has been diluted by the parallel organisation, which is now supported by some political parties. We also know that the coups are real in Turkey. There's no coup in this country. It means there's no attacker. I think it's a waste to say it, but we also know that the nation knows who the coupgers are and who's against them.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0537par0110	Who does that teacher support now? He supports the guardian!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0535par0111	Look, dear friends, as of yesterday's trial in question, the Supreme Court has broken down, so the final decision has not yet been made. He came to the local court, and I hope in the local court that the legal evidence will be seen again, the fairest, and we hope that the trial accepted by the community will be over. If it weren't for us, if we hadn't messed up that parallel game, you wouldn't be having this conversation today. They'd still be trapped, guys. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] We told the parallel to stop, and you're still there. Another thing, I want to emphasize, is that you applaud in the process of Ergenekon. You say that the Supreme Court has broken down, but you don't think that the prosecutor of December 17 is the same as the prosecutor of Ergenekon. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0538par0119	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0539par0120	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0535par0121	I didn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0540par0122	Mr. President, I'd like to present a witness in Malatya, this parallel...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0541par0123	Friends, starting today, we've started our studies. Every person on the stand celebrated April 23rd. We work in this House, and today is the anniversary of the foundation of this House. Please think about it and shape your style by moving from this point, please.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0535par0124	I've been very careful, Mr. President, there's nothing to respond to.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0540par0125	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0542par0126	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0127	What is your request?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0542par0128	I want to talk about bullying, because of the harsh insults.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0129	What did he say?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0542par0130	What's he got to say?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0544par0132	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0133	Mr. Yasar, please take your seat. Look, I have to ask you nicely. What did he say to you?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0545par0135	He who shouts too much thinks too little. He said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0136	It was an proverb, a saying, he said. Why are you taking it on?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0545par0137	I think it's a heavy taunt, and I want words based on 69.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0138	But he didn't say anything to you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0545par0139	He said it was for the speaker who spoke before me. Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0546par0140	I didn't, Mr. President. Look at the records.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0141	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0545par0142	No, he did, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0143	He said what you said, but he didn't dedicate it to you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0545par0144	No, he said the Hatibe, who spoke before me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0145	So you think you're talking too loud, you admit it. It's because you're so loud...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0545par0146	Mr. President said the speaker before me. He made some heavy insults.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0147	He didn't say the speaker before me.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0547par0148	He said he did.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0149	Since you were so loud, so loud, you must have taken that word over you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0548par0150	Mr. President, I'd like to speak of bullying according to Article 69.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0151	So that's what you think.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0548par0152	I want word on Article 69, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0153	I get that. I'm doing the procedure. Mr. Agha, I'm doing the procedure. Every time you want it, every time you want it...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0549par0154	Mr. President, may we proceed with the agenda?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0155	...we don't have to promise you anything. You're talking to me, Mr. Turan. Not to Mr. Ağbaba. Please...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0549par0156	Let's move on to the agenda, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0157	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0549par0159	Mr. President, what did I say?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0160	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0549par0161	You have to give me a reason, Mr. President. On what grounds did you do it?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0162	Please, don't cause a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0550par0164	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0549par0165	Mr. President, he's gonna pick on me again.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0543par0166	Mr. Turan, please sit down.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0551par0167	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0552par0168	And now, when some friends don't have anything to say, they're talking back to me. That's the way...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0553par0169	He spoke like a man, like a man.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0552par0170	Remember when he was saying that when your president was yelling, you remember?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0554par0171	Don't answer me now, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0555par0172	Why don't you answer what he picked on?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0552par0173	Now, dear friends, look, he says, if it weren't for us, this decision wouldn't be broken.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0555par0174	Why don't you answer whatever she's picking on?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0552par0175	If it weren't for you, he'd be the parallel structure that you curse every day, arm in arm, and form an alliance with each other.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0556par0176	Who did they vote for in the election?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0552par0177	...if you hadn't formed that alliance with that structure, Ali Tatar wouldn't have died, that Ergenekon case wouldn't have been, there wouldn't have been a sledgehammer, people wouldn't have been slaughtered. In this case, you are an accomplice in Ergenekon, in the sledgehammer, in Oda TV, and in all other cases.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0557par0179	Easy, easy!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0558par0180	Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0552par0181	If there's blood in there, the more sin there is in the parallel structure, the more sin there is in you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0559par0182	You've gone too far, you've gone too far.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0560par0183	He supported CHP.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0552par0184	You are partners, whether you are forced or whether you are touched. Look, this parallel organization that you call a parallel organization, it's called a parallel organization: What did you want, and what didn't we give it? Didn't you send a messenger in May 2013, Ambassador? Didn't the two presidents -- the current President and Abdullah Gul -- meet and send a messenger? Fehmi Kork wrote a book, Fehmi Guard. You're still voting! He wrote the book, he said... that the current President said: "Go find us and reconcile us." I'll tell you whether you're ashamed or angry or if you're angry.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0560par0185	Come to tease me, come to tease me.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0552par0186	You're an accomplice.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0561par0188	That man is the Vice President of the CHP! That language! Vice President of the CHP...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0552par0189	I'm gonna ask you! I'm gonna ask you!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0561par0190	Come on!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0562par0191	Mr. President, you just promised without bullying. The same orator repeated the same things. He'd say the same thing if we answered him again. We don't find that language worth answering.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0563par0193	Thank you for your understanding.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0564par0194	Mr. President, I'm just going to make a statement.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0563par0195	What is it?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0564par0196	I'm Malatya MP, Mr. Veli Ağbaba is Malatya MP. I'd like to announce my testimony here in the presence of the High Council.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0565par0197	Don't make it personal, sir. This isn't a place to personalize.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0566par0198	I answer very heavily, Yasar.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0564par0199	The brothers and sisters of the Master and the brothers of the Master of Fethullah supported and went door to door, not me. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0566par0202	I'll tell you something.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0567par0203	No, it's okay, it's over.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0566par0204	He who works with parallel structure so far, he who shares with Fethullah is a scoundrel, a scoundrel! Whoever did the work with the congregation, who did the arm-in-arms, who ate at the factory...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0567par0205	Please, control your manners, control your language, control your language.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0566par0206	...who took the plane is a scoundrel! Anyone who gets on a plane and kisses a hand is a scoundrel!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0567par0208	Mr. Agha, we've made all the articles of this law here until you get here. Sit down and think.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0568par0209	You know, they supported you, you know.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0566par0210	Get out of here! You're the one eating, you're the one taking the money, you're the one getting the grant, you're the one saying it shamelessly.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0568par0211	Look, you're insulting me, it's rude.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0569par0212	Mr. Agha, we've been meeting dozens of items here since this morning. Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0566par0213	Come on, tell him. Tell him there.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0570par0214	Mr. President, may we proceed?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0569par0215	We've discussed dozens of substances here in silence with a certain style.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0566par0216	Tell him there, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0569par0217	The Clave has been in this position since you arrived. Think about it, think about it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0566par0219	Think about it, I've done my duty properly. Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0571par0220	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0572par0221	Sir, again, my guardian, without him, I cannot win.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0573par0223	Yes, Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0571par0224	Mr. President, I have a request for my position, one moment.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0573par0225	Here, wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0574par0226	Whoever took money from the congregation, who received donations...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0573par0227	On the one hand you're saying April 23rd, you're celebrating April 23rd, look at us, it's a shame!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0575par0230	Mr. President, let's not take this any further, but let's just say that I'm going to tell you about two members of the district, one of them, one of them, and he's going to say something unreal and he's going to say something.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0576par0231	It's not unreal, it's all real.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0575par0232	We say to everyone in Malatya, if any of these two MPs are parallel structures...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0576par0233	It's the truth. Take all parallel broadcast organs throughout the election, read it, read it!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0575par0234	If the arm went in the arm, if the road walked with him, if he accepted his offerings, if he got support from the election, the Malatians knew who that MP was...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0576par0235	Don't lie, be ashamed, be ashamed!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0575par0236	...we're transferring him to the Malatya people.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0577par0238	Okay, we'll pass it on to Malatya. Thank you. Now, the motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, and I'm going to process them together. [[The motion has been read by Clerk Member Nevşehir MP Mustafa Elgöz]] ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In accordance with Article 36 of Law Bill 278, which is currently in session...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0578par0247	Go arm in arm, take money, get a donation!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0577par0248	Mr. Agha, what are you doing? Is this coffee?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0579par0249	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0578par0250	Don't slander me! It's slander! It's slander!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0577par0251	Shame! You say April 23rd. This is the Clave.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0578par0252	It's slander! It's slander!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0580par0253	That's the answer to why CHP is not in power, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0581par0254	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0582par0255	Please, just shut up, okay?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0583par0256	Sir, their respect for April 23rd is false.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0582par0257	Read it. We offer and propose that the declaration be changed from date to date, in accordance with Article 36 of Law Bill 278. Mehmet Emin Adıyaman (Iğdır) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: Kamil Aydın (Erzurum) and his friends Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0584par0263	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0582par0264	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Mehmet Emin Adıyaman is the first speaker on the same motions. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Adıyaman, please, have a quiet talk, let's take this atmosphere apart.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0585par0270	Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0586par0272	Have you read the 21 Constitution? Do you accept?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0587par0273	What time were you on the page?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0585par0274	Dear MPs, I'm just reading history, that's all I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0587par0275	No, I was wondering what page you were on.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0585par0276	Now, as of 1925, dozens of reports have been made concerning the Kurdish issue or the Kurdish issue -- you know. The first of these reports -- you know -- is the report of Abdulhalik Renda, the Speaker of Parliament in 1925, the first report. There's a follow-up of Cemil Uybad's Shark Islam Plans, there's lecture reports, there's Ibrahim Tali Preliminary Report, there's a Thankful Rock Report.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0588par0277	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0585par0278	There are reports of Ismet Inönu. All of these reports have one common logic, one common idea, which is expressed by...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0588par0279	What's in the substance?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0585par0280	If you look at the reports, the common idea is: Article 12 of the regulation on the implementation of the Terakki Law. Look, that material is being applied step by step from this date to the 1960s. What is it? The whole idea is that the Kurds must be divided into small tribes and distributed to different regions and then to Turkey, where they must be banned from returning to Turkey, not to exceed 5 per cent of the general population. It's a step-by-step practice, and I don't have to tell you. You all know the violence that happened in my class. The people of my class have no rebellion in 1937-1938, no resistance against the system, no armed resistance; they may have a closed economic system from the belief of Alevi and Kurdish culture, but they need to be distributed; you all know very well how it's distributed. You know Sheikh Said, you know Zilan, and you know the 1960 coup, the 1980 coup that continued from that day. Now, the whole...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0589par0281	Did someone else dig the holes in there?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0585par0282	Sir, there are no holes in this period.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0590par0283	What, what?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0585par0284	What's going on in this period? This semester, there's monotheism, there's racism, there's skulls.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0591par0286	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0585par0287	Now, therefore, these practices, these denials, this monotheistic understanding, this protestive understanding, this one belief, the one sect, which is imposed on one identity, the Admission and Terakki mentality, are unfortunately going on until today, and our children are now paying the price. If he can't solve this problem, if he can't solve it under the spirit that I've just read in the Constitution of 1921, friends, if we can't practice our common history, our common history, our brotherhood, like the statement in the Constitution of 1921, we'll leave this legacy with the next generation, and the Parliament will carry its burden. Here I am not describing my own ideology perspective; historical documents, you read it, you read the reports I've told you to study; you read the understanding, the mentality of these reports, you see them.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0592par0289	Isn't it hard to tell the same thing every day?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0593par0290	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0585par0291	So, we can't solve the problem here by shouting, you know, by hansom politics or through a certain ethnic understanding, through a sect. They've solved it, actually, the people who built this country have solved it, but it's the coups, the 1924 Constitution of coups, the 1960 Constitution of coups, the 1980 Constitution of coups. It's the system that coup constitutions will bring us. I'll tell you one last thing while I'm at it, fellas.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0594par0293	Make it last.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0595par0294	Don't tell me.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0585par0295	Look, there's one thing the AKP Group insists on: we don't have a problem with the regime, we have a problem with the system.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0596par0296	When did we say that?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0585par0297	Just yesterday, your orator told me that, sir, just yesterday, your orator told me that.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0597par0298	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0585par0299	If there's no problem with the regime, if it's the system, if it's the administrative structure, and with this administrative structure, yes, we have a problem.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0598par0300	We have a problem with terrorism.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0585par0301	While you're thinking of building this system as a presidential system, the country is not divided, you're not divisive, but when we defend decentralisation, it comes to separatism, it divides the country. You need to leave this mentality, you need to leave this mentality. I hope this House will solve this problem, it will. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0599par0304	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın is the speaker of the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0600par0308	Mr. President, very dear MPs, I bid you all good night. Yes, today (April 23rd, 1920) is the name of a movement in which all ethnic groups from Istanbul depart from Samsun to Amasya, Amasya to Amasya, from Amasya to Sivas, from Erzurum, from Sivas to Ankara, from Sivas to Ankara. Now, I'm gonna tell you a little joke, and then I'm gonna get into it. On the boat, a man looks like he's wearing sunglasses, cloudy, evening, he's on his feet, he's wearing a fedora, he's reading the newspaper. Excuse me, uncle, if you'll excuse me, I'll sit next to you. Can't you see, brother, don't bother, I'm reading the newspaper. And he says, "Uncle, I'm sorry, it's dark, you have sunglasses, and you're holding the paper upside down." If you're going to read it, if you're going to look like you're reading it, don't hold it upside down, keep it straight. Now, history can't be read backwards. Do you know what another name for history is? There is a word called "Chronicles," a sequence of events and chronic history. In reverse, postmodernists make it possible to take history back and forth, but history is the fall of cases in art and literature. So you follow a chronology, you follow a sequence. I mean, God forbid, if you mess up the timing, the sequence, the chronology when you're doing a reading, you can't understand any text, and if you read the holy, divine books, you're out of religion. You start in the middle, you start in the end, you grab the end, you pull out the end, you break the integrity. So you have to watch out for the chronology. Now, do you know what a short definition of the constitution is, dear lawmakers? The Constitution is the principle of governance, of democratic systems, of legislation, of conduct, of government rules written in which the judiciary is powered; see, rules that demonstrate the way a democratic structure, a system, a state works after its creation. Now, that's the kind of gum we've got in our mouths: the 1921 Constitution... no, it's the Agency. Okay? It's not called a constitution. For God's sake, take a look at the 1921 Agency from Google, all of you, who understands a little bit of the constitution. There's no such thing as... in the 11th article, hanging out in the office, as if it means the autonomy of today... there's no such thing. By holding on to the word Kurdistan... it was also used as a regional name, a geographical area name. 1921... dear lawmakers, I have your attention. Look, you just reacted, so please listen to this. Now, 1920, the House is being established and the country is occupied on one side. Let's run it one way; there's no state yet, no system, no structure formed, but let's form a concept of procedures. After that, the republic is established in 1923 after 1921. There is a state now, now that there is institutionalisation, it needs to form a constitution. It is called the Constitution in 1924. Now, from where we're going to get out of here, sir, Turkey -- I'm telling you clearly -- from Iraq, not Syria -- to pick up a word from there, to grow it, to grow it, to grow it, to do what it did yesterday, to participate in all the riots, and to shoot this Ottoman from behind, and then the next day you'll come to Parliament. Just because we're here today doesn't mean we won't be punished if we commit a crime tomorrow.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0601par0314	You're right.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0600par0315	So my lesson is a riot. Nothing happened in my class, they say. Who will answer for the bloodshed in Munzur Tea? Won't those who slaughtered our baby-year-old soldiers and threw them in the creek pay for this? We'll read history straight. If we have received some knowledge from you, We shall recite it with justice. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Like I said, don't push it, there's nothing there, there's nothing there. Turkey is not Syria, it's not Iraq, it's not a totalitarian regime...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0602par0318	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0600par0319	...the Republic of Turkey is a state of law, a national state. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0602par0322	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 37, which I make to read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the decree shall be changed from the date of the release of the decree, which is in Article 37 of the Law Bill 278. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 37 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Matters 278 rows in the following way. Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Mustafa Akaydın Şenal Sarıhan Selina Doğan Ömer Fethi Gürer ▪ MADE 37- (1) This Law; A) Three months after the release of 8th, 9th, 11th, 13th, 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th and 18th articles, B) The rest of the material was released in the date of its release, It's in effect. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0603par0343	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0602par0344	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0604par0346	Motive...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0602par0347	I'm reading the reason: The motion aims to implement arrangements made in the bill as soon as possible. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the decree shall be changed from the date of the release of the decree, which is in Article 37 of the Law Bill 278. Mehmet Emin Adıyaman (Iğdır) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0605par0356	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0602par0357	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on the motion, İğdır MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0606par0362	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, first of all, the Constitution of 1921 is called the Act of the Foundation, and the Constitution of 1924 is called the Act of the Organization. In addition to the 1960 Constitution, the term "anayasa" was replaced by the Agency's Constitution. Of course, that's been discussed enough. In fact, friends, no matter what we call it, no matter what window we look at history, I mean whether it's true or false, there's a reality in this country, not today, but we have people living together for a thousand years, and today blood is spilled; the soldier dies, the cop dies, the civilian dies, the guerrilla dies, hundreds of people enter the dungeons.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0607par0365	It's not a guerrilla, it's a terrorist.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0606par0366	Now, this problem needs to be solved. This problem cannot be solved outside this House in the German Parliament, the Iraqi Parliament, the Syrian Parliament or the Japanese Parliament; it is the will of the people.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0608par0367	In the German Parliament, the man who calls a terrorist a guerrilla there doesn't talk, he doesn't talk.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0606par0368	So we say that this Parliament, which is the will of the people, must solve this problem.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0609par0369	We'll figure it out, we'll figure it out, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0606par0370	And when we say we need to solve it, we offer data.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0610par0371	You don't talk the way you want to on the stand. What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0606par0372	A civilian is the first and only constitution, the Constitution of 1921.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0611par0373	You can't talk, that's just freedom right there.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0612par0374	Why don't you come out and talk? You're on the stand, you're talking out of your mouth, you're saying your line, like the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0606par0375	The 1921 Constitution is an expression of the will of the people who gave the War of Salvation, a will to express the country's occupation, not a practice of coup, not a coup contract, not the Constitution of 1982, not the Constitution of 1961, but a will of one-sided will, which a dictatorship imposes on the people. On the contrary, if the constitutions are a contract for the people, a common goal, a contract for which they agree, which is a civilian, who finds its true expression, yes, it is the constitution. There's no way to deny it, it's reality. Today, April 23, 1920. Yes, it was founded today, with this mentality, with this understanding, with this sense of brotherhood, on the day this House was founded. It's not a brotherhood where a person has meat, or nails, or a fingernail, or a fingernail is cut as long as it lasts. Friends, the issue is not solved by ignoring it, by our own sense of showmanship or nationalism, but by the way the world has not solved it. Then we'll sit down and talk, put our history on the line, put up a thousand years of brotherhood.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0613par0377	As soon as history is taken over, history goes on and on.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0606par0378	We have to put together all of our common values, whether it's a religious partnership or a geographical partnership, whether it's a union of fate, whether it's a girl or whatever. The more we shout in here, the more the orator friend has to pay his respects here every day. This is our mission, this is our plague, this is our responsibility. Now, we're talking about a historical document here, we're saying that the House was founded today, but we're ignoring the document that this House accepts. We're talking about the will of this House, the War of Salvation, but we don't see the 1921 Constitution, which the House has documented, which it has written down, and made history, as we are now voting the law, much of it, even unanimously, as it does not exist in history. Turkey began in 1924. Not before 1924.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0614par0380	You know why?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0606par0381	Why not, sir?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0614par0382	Because there aren't any Jell-Os and hubcaps on that date.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0615par0383	Mr. Yasar... are we in a debate, Mr. Yasar?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0606par0384	Did he come out after 1924, the Jönturks and so on? Okay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0614par0385	When the Jell-Os and the Jell-Os kick in, the job goes bad.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0616par0386	That's all you know about history!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0606par0387	Okay. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0617par0390	And thank you, but I also want to stress that we talked about the spirit of the 1921 Constitution, the law of brotherhood, a thousand years of values, common history, common values, all of that, and I agree with everything you say, but I don't think there's a need to be a word in this reality called "gerilla."
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0618par0392	History doesn't go backwards, history looks forward.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0619par0393	It's reality, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0620par0394	A terrorist is a murderer.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0621par0395	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 38: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and demand that the declaration of the Law, which is held in Article 38 of the Law Bill 278, be changed from the side of the declaration. İdris Baluken Mehmet Eminım İdris Toğrul Mehmet Ali Aslan MahmutCeladet Güdalı Çağlar Demirel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose the addition of the statement from the Council of Ministers to come after the declaration of Article 38 of the International Adli Co-operation Act on Article 278, which is currently in session. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Kamil Aydın Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 38 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Matters 278 rows in the following way. (MADDE 38- (1) These laws are carried out by the Council of Ministers. Cemal Okan Yüksel Kemal Zeybek Mustafa Akaydın Şenal Sarıhan Selina Doğan Ömer Fethi Gürer Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0622par0418	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0621par0419	Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The motion aims to correct the confusion of meaning. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose the addition of the statement from the Council of Ministers to come after the declaration of Article 38 of the International Adli Co-operation Act on Article 278, which is currently in session. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the proposed motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0623par0430	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0621par0431	Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Erkan Akçay will speak on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0624par0436	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today is April 23rd. Happy to all of us. In fact, by this time of night, I was going to criticize the way this works, not only by the memory of April 23rd, but I'm not doing this criticism, which, happily to us, is open at this time of April 23rd, the 96th year, but this is how we work, dear friends. (MHP, AK PARTY and CHP rows) Happy for us. I wish this great House to remain open forever. However, I will have another criticism at this time that we have come to understand the 96th year, about the quality of life and its efficiency, and that criticism will fit the spirit of this anniversary. I believe we all have responsibilities and duties for the active, efficient and quality work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it falls to the ruling party, most of which has a large majority in parliament. Nejat Uygur, the late theater artist, had a good play. I'm going to use the title of my speech to write it down. I'll tell you, and I'll finish it in the village. The Prime Minister made a very clear call about two months ago. In particular, when talks related to these European Union talks, talks, talks on refugees and debates on visa exemptions began, all opposition parties called on all opposition parties to meet a number of arrangements the European Union stipulated to ensure visa exemption, and all opposition parties responded in general. As the National Movement Party, of course, we have expressed that our country will support the issues in favour of our citizens, that we will do everything we can to speed up the deadline, and that our fellow National Movement Party members and other opposition parties, of course, have sincerely tried to give the necessary positive contributions. The curve is curved, it's called right. There were some issues that weren't relevant to the European Union's conditions, and some resistance was shown there. After all, at this hour we're here, dear friends, the Justice and Development Party, the ruling party has not fulfilled its calling. First of all, our friends from the ruling party of the Turkish National Assembly, the Prime Minister, have not taken anything personally from this call. It is also a fact that they are careless and take no seriously, even in supply of sufficient number of meetings and decisions. Right now, even at this hour, the noise shows that the attention, respect, and patience are not being shown. The ruling party, which wants the law out of the way immediately, is not taking the necessary care and effort of its own. We, the nationalist movement party, have shown a great deal of that care. It's a fact. Secondly, the Justice and Development Party Group has been heavily involved in unnecessary polemics, which has been the start of some debates itself.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0625par0444	Mr. Akçay, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0624par0445	But tomorrow, I'm afraid, Mr. Prime Minister, if there are any delays in these regulations...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0625par0446	Mr. Akçay, shall I open it for a minute? Are you finished?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0624par0447	Sir, my last sentence, you appreciate it.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0625par0448	Okay, let's open it up a minute.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0624par0449	In the end, without delay, he will blame the opposition. Don't let them blame it on all the reports, who, what did they say, what did they say, how did all these taunts come out in public? In this Kayseri negotiation issue, we also made some reminders when the Commission of the European Union visited the groups. While he was being accounted for for 3 billion euros, we did a study; it turns out that Turkey, which he received 4.5 billion euros from the European Union, did not get. Why hasn't the government followed this up? I hope we'll discuss it in detail later. In 2005, we started the process of participation with fireworks in Kızılay. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the European Union Report is still talking about the negotiations process. With these thoughts, I give you all my regards. Happy April 23rd again. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0626par0455	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and demand that the declaration of the Law, which is held in Article 38 of the Law Bill 278, be changed from the side of the declaration. Çağlar Demirel (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0627par0462	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0626par0463	Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. On the motion, Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel will speak. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0628par0468	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, today is April 23rd; the 96th year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On April 23rd today, we've also brought up the bill of the Justice Commission, and we're discussing the final clause. The two of them came together, and I'm going to make a little statement to the General Assembly about both the children's holiday and the Justice Commission, about the children in prison. I think it makes sense that these transactions were made right here today, at this hour, at this very moment. I would like to share with my friends the 37th article of the Convention on Child Rights: "There will be an arrest, detention or imprisonment of a child, and it will be considered a measure of law, and it will be limited to as soon as possible. " Unfortunately, however, Turkey's obligation, which should be observed in Turkey, has not been adapted. I'm going to try to put that in some official numbers. As this contract clause has not been implemented, we will have seen the painting of this contract clause today once again. I'm going to state by age averages and condition, but since we don't have a lot of time, I'm going to try to pass on the children's paintings between the ages of 12 and 17. This data dates back to December 1, 2015, and the number of children convicted between 12 and 17 years old is 648 in men, 21 in women, 669 in women; 57 in women, 57 in women, 1,705 in total; again, 2,374 children are currently in prison. Children's Day of April 23rd should be out celebrating with their family and friends on the street, while school-age children are currently spending the Day of Childhood in prison on April 23rd.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0629par0472	Children deceived by you!
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0628par0473	So, once again, 71 percent of this painting is under arrest, and I want to express it specifically. And in reference to that contract, the fact that children with no convictions are being held in prisons shows once again that the justice system in Turkey is actually far from protecting children. Even the current situation is so hopeless that children continue to be imprisoned and new prisons open. The Minister of Justice again announced in his statement in September 2015 that three prisons will be held in Diyarbakır, Hatay and Tarsus in 2016, while in 2017 and 2018 there will be a new prison execution institution in the district of Kayseri and Tekirdağ Province. Again, when we think that the capacity is 288 with these new five prisons, we see that the Ministry is trying to create 1,440 additional capacities for children in the coming period. So we're opening up prisons for children to be sent back to detention centers in a process where we want children to be released to prisons and the juvenile detention centers to be closed.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0630par0474	What about the kids who were abducted in the mountains?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0628par0475	Again, we all know the child abuses in prisons, we all saw them together, we all saw them together, we saw them in Pozanti, we found them in other prisons. Again, we also know very well about the violence and abuse of prisons. We'd like to stress once again that the children are in a process of removing family ties from their families and being exiled from their areas. While it is necessary to establish a new constitution or new laws in accordance with these laws that protect children's rights and laws, the existing prisons must be closed, unfortunately we cannot speak of rights, law and justice again. That's why we can't celebrate the children's holiday today, because I'm saying that our children are spending this process in prisons, and I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0630par0478	Because the children are in Kandil, because do you know the children in the mountains?
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0631par0479	Don't take the children up to the mountains.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0632par0480	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. The negotiations of the bill are complete. Now I would like to call Mr. Bkent Turan, a member of the Çanakkale MP, to state his views in favour of the bill, according to Article 86 of the Civil Charter. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0633par0486	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again this late at night. We've reached the end of the bill that we've been working hard at, which we've been working on, and we're about to vote. I'd like to thank all of our high-profile deputies for this work, our opposition representatives who have contributed. It was an extra task for us, especially in the process of the visa-free EU, that these legislations were legalized in the time of mutual expectation; we did this with pride, with pleasure, with hope, on Monday. So, I'd like to thank you again. Other than that, today is April 23rd, the dawn of our national sovereignty, the 96th anniversary of the opening of our Parliament. I, again, remember the blessings of our martyrs, veterans, elders, who have worked so hard to build this republic, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal. It is a holiday given to our children; I celebrate, and already I hope for good, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0634par0491	Thank you. Against Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırözer will speak. Here you go, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0635par0495	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a promise against the International Administration Act on Criminal Matters. Although we have received a counter-promise, we will vote yes to this bill in line with our goal of the European Union, in accordance with previous contact with the Prime Minister and party leaders. However, while explaining that we will vote, I find it helpful to emphasize a few issues. First of all, of course, this bill brings together a large number of legislation on judicial co-operation. As we have demonstrated in our opposition, there are only 30 or so of them in front of us, and the rest will be carried out under regulations from the Ministry of Justice. My friends in our opposition expressed that this was contrary to the Constitution, and during four days of talks here, we brought to your attention a number of times. What I want to emphasize here once again is that this bill is not based on the expectations of the Republican People's Party, but on the expectations of the state of law. We've brought to your attention the things that are as right as possible, the things that need to be done, and we'll vote yes again. But this is the goal of the great leader, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has shown us the challenge of civilization, which is today the European Union, the Copenhagen, the Maastricht criteria of the European Union, and we will vote to achieve that. But, unfortunately, the AKP criteria have been implemented, not all EU criteria, both in the Law on Protection of Personal Data that came before and in the Law on Human Rights Institution. Again, when those laws came out, we made our warnings, we brought our proposals, our motions, but we couldn't get you to listen. More laws will follow, and we will continue to speak of changes required by EU standards. Hopefully, we'll make those changes together. Sure, why are we doing this? We're doing it with the European Union for visa liberalisation. As a result, the government is transferring visa liberalisation to us, the public, our people, following talks with the European Union. But as far as we can see, for that to happen, our democracy has to go forward in Turkey. But in matters such as freedom of expression and freedom of press and independence of the judiciary and neutrality, unfortunately, our current report -- as it was seen in the European Parliament a few days ago -- is going backwards, not forward. Unfortunately, our goal of the European Union, our goal of full membership in the European Union, is at the coming point where the AKP governments are not moving forward, but moving backwards, moving away from its EU bid, and it has been reduced entirely to its goal of visa-free movement. We don't think it's right to think of it as a success. As a matter of fact, in the coming days, the European Union will add new conditions to its commitments to visa liberalisation, especially in matters of human rights, basic rights and freedoms, the condition of democratic progress in Turkey on the issues of judicial independence, neutrality, freedom of expression. Unfortunately, that's where we come in at the end of 14 years. Our goal of full membership in the European Union is not progressing, and on the contrary, we're only reducing this goal to visa-free circulation, and we'll see about that, new conditions will be put in front of us. As I finish my words, I am again celebrating the National Festival of Sovereignty on April 23rd under the roof of this great assembly. I condemn the President's decision to cancel his reception without consulting the groups and the Presidential Court. We, the Republican People's Party, will celebrate this holiday with its true owners later today in Congress. Happy holidays to all of us. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0636par0503	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0637par0504	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0636par0505	Mr. Akçay, please. Pick it up in a minute, please.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0637par0509	Thank you, Mr. President. And I would like to point out that as the National Movement Party, we are going to vote on this bill, which includes a codification arrangement for these issues that are already involved in these international agreements. I hope these arrangements will also contribute to the extradition of some separatists and terrorists within the next time period. With these thoughts, I thank and cherish all the members of our Veteran Assembly to this day, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, all our heroes, and long lives and health to those who are alive. My respects to all of you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit09spe0638par0515	Thank you. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the bill is accepted and legal. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today is the 23rd April National Sovereignty and Children's Day. I hereby salute Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends. Long live April 23rd! Long live the national sovereignty! [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] I'm gonna take a minute.
tbmm-2016-04-22sit10spe0638par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin talks with Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which was part of the 2nd agenda, where we are eligible to participate in the Law, the Law, the Knowledge, and the Co-operation Act. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be available after this, the decision is made, on Saturday (April 23, 2016) at 14 p.m. for talks on the 96th anniversary of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day and the significance of the day, on Saturday (April 23, 2016). I'm closing the merger to meet at 00, and I wish all my fellow MPs, the staff of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the press employees good night and good holidays. Thank you.
