tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 65th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a promise to three congressmen. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Istanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu (Ismail Aksu) who wants to talk about Istanbul's problems. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have been promised the basic issues of Istanbul, and I salute the Grand Assembly. Istanbul is a major mega-city in many countries, where 14 million, 657 thousand people live. 18.5% of the population of Turkey lives in Istanbul. Istanbul, which has been hosting many civilizations for centuries, is also a blessed city, blessed by the praise of the Prophet Lord. Istanbul is a city with its ancient values, its natural and historical beauty, where living conditions are extremely difficult. Generally speaking, Istanbul's primary problems are unemployment and uncontrollable migration, social problems stemming from asylum seekers, security weakness, traffic density, disaster risk, false incentives limiting industry production capacity, crooked urbanization, lack of health and education capacity and management problems. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, most important of all these problems is the security issue that surely threatens our people's right to live. Today, in many neighborhoods of Istanbul, the PKK has been nested, and has become an area of action for terrorist organizations such as ISIS and DHKP-C. As a result of terrorist attacks in Istanbul so far, dozens of our citizens have lost their lives and many of our security guards have been killed. Recently, security officers and citizens in many parts of Istanbul including Küçükçekmece, Canarya District, Esenyurt, Eyüp, Gaziosmanpaşa have been involved in terrorist attacks aimed at harassment, threats, injury and killing. Finally, a suicide attack on Istiklal Street in the heart of Istanbul has left all Istanbulers with great concern. Of course, terrorism will not take over Turkey, our nation will not submit to terrorism. However, it is necessary to ensure the peace of the citizen, especially in the neighborhoods in which the separatist terrorist organization is nested, before the impossible results are born. Otherwise, there will be no way to prevent harassment, threats, injuries, and murders. Dear MPs, Istanbul is an important city of industry and tourism. According to data, 28.5 per cent of taxpayers are in Istanbul. The most important problem facing Turkey is unemployment and poverty, which resulted in the lack of production, as well as the vital problems of Istanbul. Therefore, the measures to support production, especially the primary sectors, must be quickly implemented without the environmental-enhancing dilemma. Again, Istanbul, one of the most important tourist destinations, should be allowed to receive its share of the world tourist cake, such as New York, London, Paris and Tokyo. Another important problem with Istanbul is transportation. According to TÜİK data, nearly 18 per cent of 19 million 882,000 vehicles registered in Turkey are located in Istanbul as of November 2015. Corrupt urbanization and illegal construction are a great danger to Istanbul, which risks earthquakes. More than half of the two and a half million buildings are infrastructures, so they're illegal buildings. Clearly, these buildings will be severely damaged in a possible earthquake. In Istanbul, the city's runts are collected in specific hands with zoning changes. The urban transformation is no longer a priority, it's runt-focused. Because of population density in Istanbul and migration from other parts of our country, education and health institutions are inadequate. The lack of beds in public hospitals makes it difficult to find patients in both intensive care and emergency services. In 2002, the number of beds for each 10,000 was 24.3, while in 2014 the number of beds fell to 23.4. In EU countries, this ratio is more than 50. In the slums, in particular, the number of students is numerous and the staff of teachers is inadequate. In Istanbul, education requires about 30,000 additional classrooms and 35,000 new teachers to meet world standards. Finally, I would like to say that Istanbul is the province most affected by the Syrian problem in many parts of Turkey. Dear MPs, I respectfully urge the government and the executives of Istanbul, especially security, to resolve the issues mentioned, to provide the Istanbul people with a peaceful and secure future, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0003par0017	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Hatay MP Serkan Topal, who wants to talk about Hatay's problems. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0004par0022	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I wish all our martyrs God's mercy, especially my fellow Hatayli, Serkan Talan, who was killed in a traitorous attack in Diyarbakir yesterday. Once again, we curse terror, we condemn it, and I say, "I'm sorry for the loss of our nation." Look, in 2000, the martyr was zero, the martyr was zero in 2001. With the AKP's power, unfortunately, reports of martyrs have increased every year. During the past four or five months, the Prime Minister's Office tells us the number of our martyrs separately, and they don't even know it anymore. Have we repeatedly warned the AKP government of this bench? We did. Did we say that the ongoing process should be transparent, that the solution should be sought in Parliament, not outside? We did. Did we say that this problem could only be solved on a common platform set up by representatives of the people, that there could be no other way? We did, but we couldn't get him to listen. Dear lawmakers, what are we here for? If you are making a mistake here, if you are making a mistake, and you are making this beautiful country difficult, we are here to warn you, and you are obliged to heed these warnings. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look what the country's become today. Our lungs burn every day. Now the news of the martyrs comes every day. Do you guys go home and get some sleep? Is this what you call a problem solved? If we are to die for this country, for this nation, for this land, for this flag, let us all die together. But this problem is clearly not solved by your methods, by your proposal of solutions. We can't watch the news anymore, we can't look at the papers. Every time we look at TV, every newspaper we read, the news of the martyrs, the deaths, the bombs, I'm afraid. Doesn't your conscience ever hurt? Now, the streets and streets are empty. The Prime Minister invites the public to go out on the street. With all due respect, he's on the street of this beautiful country, whatever street, whatever neighborhood he can walk on, and invite the citizens out there. (HPP) We're out of security in the country. It's not just our citizen, you're nervous, you're worried about your families. As any citizen worries about sending their children to school, I know that you and I worry about them. In order to solve these problems, you need to change some of your habits. Look, you've been indexing all your policies according to Mr. President. Isn't that wrong? If anyone has expressed an opinion about this, contrary to what Mr. President or what he or she says, you immediately have a reflex, you criticize it in the harshest way. But not all of us should have the criteria, not all of us. We're all bound by the morality of democracy and the rules of this republic, and we have to act according to it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Those of you who think that my criticisms are too much in my speech here should know that we are doing our criticism for the good of this country, for the good of our citizens, for the sake of our country, for the sake of our citizens. However, if you had used the reaction you've shown us, the response you've given us, the criticism you've sometimes insulted, the dose of criticism and responses we've had for rape cases, the people whose thefts have been registered, the people who tried to tear down our flag, the people who tried to divide our country, the PKK, ISIS, perhaps if you'd done what the public expected, the amount of criticism and responses we had done would not have been so high. The war is still going on in Syria today. I'm asking you, who do you side with in Syria, who do you support? Accept this: You have made a mistake in Syrian policy. You have to change your policy quickly with a peace index. It's paid for by our fallen relatives, children without a father, women who are unique, parents who are left without a child. The entire Republic of Turkey should not interfere in the internal affairs of another country, not be part of it. If he's going to be on the side of peace, he's going to be on the side of peace. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0005par0036	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Burdur MP Reşat Petek, who asked for the anniversary of the death of the late prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz. Here you go, Mr. Petek.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0006par0041	Mr. President and the esteemed lawmakers who don't support terrorism, I salute you all. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Our beloved DHKP-C terror organization martyred a year ago, Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who began his career as a republican prosecutor in Mersin province, with me. That's why I know him so well, because of these brutal attacks by terrorists and the martyrdom of our prosecutor, of course, to this day, the wound in our heart is a whole lot deeper and deeper. I know his family, and I really think that's how they taught our prosecutor a great family discipline, faith, morality, justice, law and justice. Dear lawmakers, it's hard to be sure that they come up here and ignore the massacres, burnings, destructions, destructions caused by terrorist organizations; they show up with some pictures, photos, and try to turn things upside down. Look, our martyr prosecutor has a widow and two orphans today. Why don't those two orphans stand up for the rights of the terror organization? We must ask that and seek your answer, dear brothers and sisters. As we always say, terrorism has no justification. One year ago, terrorists killed our republic's prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz. Yesterday, they killed seven of our officers and three of our soldiers. I hereby bless our martyrs and wish our veterans a speedy recovery. First, let's make a statement: Our AK PARTY, who thinks that the fight against terrorism is not only done by armed struggle, but by consciously drying the swamp, has signed revolutionary changes to this side for 14 years. We've eliminated racial approaches, eliminated regional differences, eliminated the alternative; major reforms have been made that eliminate segregation, division, region, all of them. The terrorist organization has no more issues to exploit, but the external focus that has the terrorist organisations on the line has given the order to attack, even though there are no grounds left. Therefore, in July 2015, the terrorist organizations started the attack again. Now, it certainly wouldn't be right to look for a cure on these platforms without having to accept it and identify it. Now he's always complaining, sir, renegotiating, renegotiating, renegotiating, looking for solutions. There were no martyrs in this country for three years. While we're really going into peace and brotherhood, say, let's all ask and look for answers -- wasn't the PKK terrorist group that launched the attacks on July 22nd and declared a revolutionary public war? Well, then, if those who want these attacks to stop are willing to come from the heart, let them come from this platform, let them come from the heart, let them come from the terrorist group, the PKK, the DAHŞ, the DHKP-C, the YPG, the PYD, and curse them all together, there is democracy, there is politics, there is a solution. This issue can be solved. Highly valued lawmakers are now being given frequent research proposals on terrorist incidents, and they say, "Let's investigate the incidents." I don't see any intimacy in that either. If Turkey is the state of law, it is the duty of the judiciary to investigate terrorism, which is the biggest crime, the republic's prosecutors investigate it, bring it to justice. If you do not condemn the terrorists who attacked the Diyarbakır Attorney General to investigate the death of Tahir Eluş, who went to investigate the crime scene in Diyarbakır province, if you do not expose their shame, their sins, their attacks, there is no way to explain these events. I spoke to the Attorney General of Diyarbakir, he went two days in a row to collect evidence. He said that the terrorists attacked us again as soon as we left here. We can't cure terrorism without seeing these facts, precious lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0007par0050	Thank you, Mr. Petek.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0006par0051	Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0007par0054	If there's a group vice president who wants a word, I'll give you my word. Mr. Sky, you're in the system, please.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0008par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're going through a process where we're going through a period where we're going to have to report the news of the martyrs and our sorrows that we've received at the beginning of the parliamentary hearings -- almost a period of time. The injuries of seven of our police officers and 27 of whom were killed in Diyarbakır yesterday and the martyrs of two other security guards in Nusaybin and the injuries of seven others have caused Turkey to suffer unspeakable suffering. Today, the funeral of four of our policemen -- who live with their family in Ankara -- will be lifted at Kocatepe. Another cop is from Ankara. I ask for God's mercy to all of our Ankaran citizens, including all of our martyrs. Indeed, as a political institution, it is time and time for all of us to go after terrorism with a very serious determination, but to make a co-operation to eliminate all the factors leading up to terrorism. How long will we endure these sufferings, how long will we live with these sufferings? Our martyrs die for the country, their families die for the country, thanks to the country. But of course we owe a debt to all the families and to all those who have lost their lives for it, the political institution must do more than ever. I don't think any mother, mother, father, should be left with tears in her eyes, and I think the House should have a more common stance on these growing terror events than ever before.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0009par0063	One more minute, please complete, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0008par0064	And my condolences again to all our dead, dead security guards. As the Republican People's Party, we are being very open and clear that we are against terrorism, whether it is the PKK, whether it is the DHKP-C, whether it is the ISIS, whatever organization it is built by. With terrorism, we know that Turkey can't get anywhere, and we think that the steep stand against terror in Turkey has become much more valuable today. We must curse terror together with all parties present in Parliament and all our citizens, and we must not allow this pain to last any longer. Our coven has such an important duty. There may be mutual bullying, of course, but I think it's the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to make a common stand against terrorism. I ask for God's mercy on our martyred policemen. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0010par0067	Thank you very much, Mr. Sky. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0011par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. For our country, for our nation, for our state, for our unity, for our future, we continue to give our lives to martyrs in the fight against terrorism. Yesterday, 10 of our children were killed, 30 of our children, our citizens, our brothers and sisters were injured in Diyarbakir, Mardin and Hakkari. I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs. My condolences to their families and relatives and to the great Turkish nation, and to our wounded, I pray for immediate healing from the Lord God. Dear lawmakers, we don't mean numbers, we don't mean numbers; life, life. They're husband, mother, father, son, friend, kin, kin. Some of our country's cities and settlements seem to have been virtually occupied by terrorist organizations. Bombs, handmade explosives, moats, barricades, tunnels wrapped like a web of spiders. That's not gonna happen in a couple of months from night to morning. In Oslo, in Kandil, in Habur, we have repeatedly warned you that you cannot prevent the terrorist from setting up tables with terrorism. The terror that was reset in 2002 is now possible for you to recover from these tables. The government has warned the governors of the streets that they're being loaded with bombs. Oh, don't interfere with these little things. Here, today's martyrs are responsible for those who didn't interfere yesterday and those who didn't. It really kills us to send a message of condolences here day and day. He must be responsible. I call upon the government to grasp this responsibility.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0012par0074	One more minute, Mr. Akçay, complete, please.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0011par0075	One confession at a time in the last few months won't save anyone. Those who make flash messages in the fight against terrorism and explain the solution process action plan in Mardin, say they have no concepts of terrorism on the return of the Netherlands, and execute the action plan will be condemned in history and the nation's conscience and will certainly give their account to justice. The Prime Minister says, "Thank you to our citizens for not surrendering to terror yesterday." He says, "Let us be one voice against terror, hand in hand, heart in heart." There's nothing wrong with our people, there's nothing wrong with us. Of course, we are hand in hand, heart in heart, one voice against terror and the Turkish nation has never surrendered to terror.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0012par0078	Mr. Akçay, wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0011par0079	However, look at the government's state of mind. The Secretary of State says we will not be offended by the United States because of the PYD. Was it not you who declared the same PYD as a terrorist organization and called the United States a terror organization, saying, "Am I your partner or the terrorists in Kobani?" For God's sake, what promise are we going to take? And where is the Home Secretary? When he is the governor of Diyarbakır, let Cana come to the mosque. What does the Interior Minister do when all these lives are martyred? Why doesn't he make any statement? The police profession is also a bit of an experience. What have you done with the savings, experience of this organization? My call to the government: Anti-terrorism is a country, nation, state struggle. This struggle is by standing upright, without honor, without protection, without judgment, without nature. As I end my speech, the saint remembers our martyrs once again with mercy, saying that we have cursed terror with all our might, and I want to say that we believe that Turkey will surely overcome these days of persecution and humiliation, and I want to say that we stand behind any effective measures in the fight against terrorism. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0013par0083	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0014par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, both the Middle Eastern geography and our country are going through a very difficult and difficult time. In this troubled period, especially the expectations of all our people living in this geography are that politics quickly activates the power and ability to create solutions and remove the areas of this problem as soon as possible. Unfortunately, for a long time, the political institution has been wasting time, rather than building solutions, with a number of rhetorics full of hammocks, some texts that have not gone beyond demagogue, so to speak. We continue to lose our people, our citizens, in the time that we have lost more valuable than the air we breathe here. On the news of death almost every hour, all MPs, all parliamentarians, we feel a deep, deep sadness. As the deaths increase, more blood, more death, more pain calls, and we've said to this day that there's no solution to politics, and we'll keep saying it. In such an environment, we experienced a deep, deep sadness, a deep pain yesterday over the painful news from the province of Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey and Turkey. When we first heard about the attack in Diyarbakır, we expressed our condolences, condolences, and condolences on the loss of lives and injuries of police officers and citizens.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0015par0090	One more minute, Mr. Baluken, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0014par0091	I am, Mr. President. But we're in a process where it's necessary to go beyond that. We may be able to collect political rants over suffering, deaths, hansoms, on different subjects, but we have to fulfill our obligation and burdens as Parliament against our people in the process of creating solutions in the event of death. The challenge is to show solutions and peace in such environments. In a time when pain, tears, blood, feelings of revenge are concentrated, it is difficult to insist decisively on resolution and peace, which is that we believe we have no choice but to do what is difficult. As the Democratic Party of Peoples...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0016par0095	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0014par0096	...for the sake of the circumstances, I urge Parliament and Parliament to exercise will, take initiative, set up solution commissions, to act in the sense that this situation does not suit our country and our people, that a solution and peace environment should be developed immediately, that there may be something we can do about the life of every citizen who has lost his life. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0016par0098	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Cakir...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0017par0101	Mr. President, thank you. And I wish you all the blessings of our fellow police officers, who lost their lives in the foul attack yesterday. I wish for immediate healing to both our security guard and civilian citizens who were injured in this incident. Again, on this occasion, not only on this occasion, but on the other hand, I ask God's mercy on all of our martyrs who have lost their lives in defending their homeland, their country, their homeland, their homeland. Of course, our constant condolences from this place burn our hearts and we have to repeat these condolences by burning our hearts every time. It's our wish that we don't have to repeat it. But terror is a universal disease, a religion, a religion, a religion, a nationality, nothing. It's a universal disease in that sense. He'll shoot us today, tomorrow he'll shoot someone else, another nation, another country, another state. As a matter of fact, the picture we live in today is no different. If it's a universal disease, terrorism, the fight against it is certainly not just an activity that not only the political institution, but only a part of the judiciary will do. Together, all 78 million people, together with all our institutions, our organizations, our officials, we must fight against terrorism. In fact, in an international collaboration, terrorism must be fought. In this sense, I think two concepts are important when we're fighting terrorism; one is determination, and the other is consistency. We must be determined to fight against terror. If we don't act decisively, we'll be stealing the oil from terror. That's the end of the...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0018par0108	I'll add another minute. Here you go, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0017par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. What we've developed in the context of the solution process... let's call it what we call it, let's call it a non-compromising environment, let's call it something else, it doesn't matter, it's the function that matters; the work we do is consistent. It's an effort to contribute to the extinction of an existing fire. In fact, I would like to talk about a tremendous effort that has been put into place by book, by book, by taking the risk of taking the hemlock, regardless of its political future, especially our president, or at some point, at the expense of its political future. That's what I call determination. Today and today, the same determination continues to fight this terror. If it's consistency, if anyone wants to contribute to this problem, it's necessary to meet, talk, discuss, in some way, on the legitimate ground. Because it's a good effort, because it's a good effort, because it's an effort to help solve the problem. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But you also have to add that the political institution has an important role here, as it is expressed. But the political institution...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0019par0114	I'll open it one more minute.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0017par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll put you through. The political institution, of course, is an institution that has to come up with a solution, which has to be part of the solution, which has nothing to discuss. But if the political institution becomes part of the problem when it's going to be part of the solution, I think that's where it gets blocked. In that sense, especially as politicians under this roof, it is our duty to act as part of the problem, not as part of it, but as part of the solution, and to act as an expression. On this occasion, I welcome our martyrs again, and salute the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0020par0120	I'd like to thank my co-chair friends very much. And once again, we, the Court, curse terror with violence. Yes, this Congress must stand up to terrorism, act in common. Whatever its responsibility, we believe that all our fellow lawmakers, all groups, should be that careful and conscious. We hereby ask for God's mercy to our martyrs, to our wounded citizens and officers for immediate healing, and to their families for our condolences and condolences. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda now. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I will have the motions read separately. In the first and second row, the parliamentary research motions that I'm going to read will be read the summary of the motions because they are more than 500 words, but will be included in the full text of the motions in the journal. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Allowing the construction of more than 2,000 small river-type hydropower plants in our country, guarantees of purchase, as well as the transfer of the right to use of water, causes very dangerous social and ecological costs. Because of its steep topographic structure and rich water supply, the East Black Sea Area faces open plunder, threat, destruction, and destruction for the construction of river-type hydropower plants. The study of the effects of water legislation on the waterbed of HES, the current ecological balance in the stream and the continuation of living life; the scientific way to determine the amount of life water planned to be created, the construction and construction of HESs, and the negative effects of waste and animal species in the region, the research of people living in the region, the problems that arise about the supply of agriculture, animals and water directly from the stream; the development of HES, and the construction of water and the construction of waste and the waste of the plants in which they will be built; and the environmental impacts of the environment, and the environmental impacts of the environment, and the environmental impacts of the environment, and the environmental effects of people in which people in the region and the environments and the environment will be reduced, and we'll reduce and reduce the energy of the environments of the environment to 10xological and 10xological and the environments. 2/12/2015 With all due respect. [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Amasya]] [[Aydın]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] 10) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Burdur]] [[Janitor]] 18) Gamze Akkuş Isgez [[İstanbul]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Paddles]] [[Slap]] 22) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 24) Zülfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[Zonguldak]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] Each person has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. It is the duty of the state and citizens to improve the environment, to maintain environmental health and to prevent pollution. All citizens have the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. In Turkey, however, ecological destruction continues at an extreme rate, with concepts such as the public benefit of the superior or the strategic use. Building HES, which causes ecological destruction, creates very serious social costs. In particular, more than 2,000 small river-type hydropower plants are allowed to build in our country, as well as a guarantee of purchase, as well as the transfer of water's right to use causes very dangerous social and ecological costs. The East Black Sea region faces open plunder, threats, destruction, and destruction for construction of river-type hydropower plants due to its steep topographic structure and rich water sources. According to the DOCAP action report, there are 271 licensed HES active and under construction in the region. The government randomly abandoned every stream of our country to the HES construction sector, without making comprehensive ecological assessments, without developing large-scale basin plans. HES are built by ignoring individuals' right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. With the right to safe and clean water for individuals, the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment can be maintained. Because of HES constructions, transportation routes, construction sites, storage areas are being destroyed; forest areas are being nationalized; creek beds are being filled; forests, natural habitats, valleys are being torn apart; wildlife, agricultural areas, endemic vegetations are at risk; life environments that contain many rare and threatened species are being destroyed; fauna and fluorine are being damaged. It is known that as a result of the HES constructions, the riverbed is largely possible for the institution, that the water-water life in the waterbeds will be negatively affected, that the current ecological balance and living life in the stream are not enough to sustain it, that the fish and other creatures in the stream will have a negative impact on their lives, that people living in the region will have a negative impact on the need for agriculture, animals, and those taking direct advantage of the river. As a result of the flow of water because of the HES, the decline in product efficiency, the end of fishing activities, the decline in tourism revenues and so on. Serious economic problems are emerging. The control system for whether the life water was left at the mercy of the HES operator or not is not working. The solution to saving our country from being energy dependent is certainly not to allow thousands of river-type HES projects across the country, as if smuggling from fire. Investigating the effects of water life in the waterbed of HES, researching the current ecological balance in the stream and the amount of life water intended to be released to the stream for the continuation of its living life; a scientific way to determine whether the HES will cause floods and landslide in the area where it will be built or built; researching the negative effects of people living in the region's endemic plant and animal species; researching the problems that arise over the supply of agriculture, animals and streams; researching the problems that arise over the supplying of water in the area where the HES builds will not cause the formation of floods and lands, and the constructions of waste and the wastes in the region; and the impacts of the plant and fauna -- and the environmental effects of the environment -- and the environment -- and the environmental effects of the environment -- and the environment -- and the environmental effects of the environment -- and the environment -- and -- and the environment -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and --and -- and - and - and - and - and - and -- and -- and -- and - and - and - and - and - and - and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and - and -- and -- and - and - and - and -- and - and - and - and - and - and - and - and - and - and - and - and - and - and - and - and - and - and - and - and - and - and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and -- and - Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand the establishment of a research commission on the basis of the 104th and 105th Articles of the Civil Charter of our country in order to investigate threats to the media by the Italian spy software company Hacking Team, which is reported to have been hacked and leaked classified information. [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Tunceli]] [[Aydın]] 9) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] 11) Gamze Akkuş İsgez [[İstanbul]] 12) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Edirne]] [[Janitor]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Antalya]] 20) Zülfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] 26) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] In 2000, the Hacking Team, founded by two programmers in Milan/Italy, sold software that allowed governments and law enforcement forces to infiltrate other people's machines. The software developed by the company is said to be the power behind a lot of recent media talks about privacy, infiltration. According to the documents published on Torrent, it is observed in the United States, Germany, Australia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Morocco, South Korea, Honduras, Spain, Switzerland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Cyprus, Colombia, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Hungary, Malaysia, Mexico, Egypt, Mongolia, Nigeria, Uzbekistan, Panama, Poland, Russia, Singapore, Sudan, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Umman, Vietnam. According to the data of the Hacking Team, the number of license fees paid from Turkey to the company was $440,000 (1.3m) during the period between June 2011 and November 14th in exchange for software received by the police. One of the documents recovered from the firm showed a product in the form of the remote Command System (RCS) in June 2011, with an advance of $75,000. Turkey has also been seen on the map of the hacking team's RCS software, published in 2014 by Citizen Labs. Again, the report says this service aims at human rights activists and independent journalists in various countries. According to documents leaked to the Internet from those computers again, some of the Turkish Police have been involved in ▪berkinelvan. It has been reflected in the media where he requested that he install spyware to provide remote control of the file "docx." It is important to establish a parliamentary research commission in order to determine the measures our country should face in the field of IT, under serious investigation of the allegations taken by the police from the Italian Hacking Team. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ferdi Özmen, a well-known social media figure, was killed on October 23, 2014, after leaving a shopping mall, in a area with several security cameras. During the past nine months, Ferdi Özmen, known for his opposition identity, has not been cleared of the murder. We demand and demand that the research commission be established under Article 104 and 105 of our Civil Code, in order to be investigated without exception and to uncover the facts of the murder. [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] 7) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Aydın]] [[Adana]] 10) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Janitor]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Gamze Akkuş Isgez [[İstanbul]] 14) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Edirne]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Antalya]] 20) Zülfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Amasya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 29) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] Ferdi Özmen, known for his love of Ataturk, was gunned down by a man and shot to death on 23 October 2014, shortly after he was in his parked vehicle. Ferdi Özmen, who is one of the Internet phenomena and has thousands of followers on social media, has received threats many times. On the day of the murder, Ferdi Özmen, who went to a shopping mall with his uncle in Sarıyer district of İstanbul, and again shared his action with social media as a location statement, had been staged and killed. There have been no developments in the media following the murder, although reports have come out that the murder suspects have been arrested in Georgia and will be extradited to Turkey. The insensitiveness of the murder also attracted the attention of the Paris-based Journalists Without Borders Organization, which urged police and judicial authorities to make every effort to clarify Ferdi Özmen's murder. The Organization of Journalists Without Borders has noted that Ferdi Özmen is an influential Turkish (blogger) and a critic of power, and that he has 27,000 followers, has raised the issue in the international arena, stating that the murder of this young (blogger) must be done politically, that he is connected with social media activities. The former Prime Minister, who was tried for posting messages on Facebook during the Gezi protests in June 2013, was also one of the details of the trial filed at the İstanbul Criminal Court of Peace for defaming the current President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Its goal is to investigate and reveal the facts, with no exception to the fact that it was planned, planned, publicly, and that it was a public conscience that caused the infinitive. For this purpose, it is important to set up a parliamentary research commission and investigate all aspects of the incident. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will begin our discussion of Turkey's Bill of Human Rights and Equality Act, which is ranked in the 1st place, as well as the Women's Equality Commission and Human Rights Commission Reports. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In the past session, the vote of ground substances was completed in the first chapter of the Law Bill 149, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter includes Articles (1), (2), (3), (3), and (4), and Interim Article 1, including Article 1, including Article 1 and Article 30. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the second chapter, we will be hearing from Bursa MP Kadir Koçdemir. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0021par0347	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on the Bill of Human Rights and Equality Act, ranking 149. I salute your high council. In the beginning of my words, with the last incident that hurt us yesterday, I say to all our martyrs God's mercy, to our wounded, to their immediate healing, and to their relatives, and to our nation's condolences. The country's environment has been dramatically exposed to an event I witnessed at noon today, and I'd like to pass it on to you. It's Friday, you know, at noon, I saw our Speaker's office car and two large guard teams from Jammer, behind him, going back to the mosque inside the House.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0022par0350	Unfortunately!
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0021par0351	When we were young, the conditions of Friday were taught to whom it was necessary, and we were told of a condition called self - control. To be free means to be free of fear, to be at its most broadest definition. This is a striking picture of the state of the country. Another painting, what are we doing here? I remember a scene in Indiana Jones, where there were a few series of movies, and there was this scene in one of the movies where the hero goes into an old building like a church, and he has to drill a hole in the ground with a big sledgehammer. There's an officer there, and that guard is sealing a notebook. It just so happens that when he hits that seal, our hero hits the floor with that sledgehammer and the building shakes. He thinks the building's shaking because it hit the seal. So here we are, friends, running the House to 1, 2, at night, for legal arrangements necessary in the integration process of the European Union. But these legal regulations, let alone us, are unaware of the commissions he should have known about. This bill, which we discussed today, was not discussed at the European Union's Compliance Commission, which I am a member of. It's a legal arrangement in the name of harmony with the European Union, but that bill was not discussed there. Again, when we say discrimination, discrimination, one of the first important areas that comes to mind is the Family, Social Affairs, and the Labour Commission, where this bill is not discussed, where there is no opinion. Agatha Christie has a saying that the secret of a good novel is that the commissioner never knows more than a reader. There are very few of us who know about the materials we vote on, and sometimes, as it happened two days ago at night, we force talks behind the Presidential Court to remove the vote and then correct it. The visa exemption and re-enactment agreement is the product of a process in which the government of the Republic of Turkey called it "equal processes" and launched in 2013, which passed the re-enactment agreement from parliament in 2014, which normally envisions the completion of both processes in June 2017. But for some reason, he never showed up, so we'd like to get him through here in a hurry by bringing him to basic law status today. This morning, there was a bill in the European Union's Commission for Integration on the law enforcement commission, where we looked up that this bill was first launched in 2010, but it's always come to today, and here it is, in late June, in the name of visa exemption, came up again in a hurry today. Turkey is now heading towards an environment where an organised irresponsible system is located. Many of Turkey's institutions, meanwhile, are particularly glad that the Great National Assembly of Turkey, which has been attributed to its co-existence, is unable to fully fulfill its function, or even transfer it somewhere. Speaking here, as my high school literature teacher often said, my kellim used to say, speaking is useless, has no effect on the other side. If there's not going to be an interaction, then let's give the group presidents as much credit as the vote we get, let's make it 316 when he raises his finger, and let's relax, because of this distraction here, many of us are separated from Turkey's agenda, and we're going to go and do things later. A second issue is that we insist on violating the basic logic of the European Union in the formation of institutions and boards in order to fit in with the European Union. There was a later change in the law that came before, but for some reason, the number was so carefully arranged that it was forced by the ruling party, not only to represent the National Movement Party there. Since no change in Article 10 was accepted, it was not possible for the political parties in parliament to have a representative at this institution. Friends, one of the most important problems of today's democracy is autonomous independent institutions and boards because they use public resources, decisions that affect the public, affect us, our families, but they are out of democratic control, outside the control of Congress. Now, one of the possible ways to address this problem is that, as stated in Article 95 of our Constitution, political parties have been appointed representatives here, but this has not been done, and one of the purposes of the law that we're working on at last says, "What is the country's first issue, which I can't rule out, and if there are obstacles in access to these rights, I can't find them if there's a way to prevent it, but this obstruction and discrimination is first exposed by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, because what we're going to discuss after a month is not on its agenda, what is the country's first issue, what is the country's first issue, I can't make its decision to make its decision to make its decision on these issues on the agenda, and its direct changes. Because this power -- as I said last time -- is a power that binds its success to separation, favor and command, a power that helps against camping, a power that guarantees its own ranks as it goes camping. Since he has done so, he does not hesitate to go to practices that will continue camping in these laws. I hereby salute you all in the hope that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will be able to fulfill its legal rights, preventing obstacles and discrimination, without separating our Parliament's mandate of law and control, without favor, without favor and without order, with the hope that it will be able to fulfill its rights with wisdom, dedication, morality, and justice.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0023par0362	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. On behalf of the Democratic Party of Rights, Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen will speak. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0024par0366	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the last Ottoman Mebusan Assembly, have a famous saying about making a political literature law, which has become a repetitive called the law, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do So, when scissors are opened between the country's problems and parliament's agenda, it's actually become quite a habit to be doing something by building a political will instead of developing an initiative to solve these problems, and unfortunately, our work and performance here today is the same thing. Instead of taking a political initiative to co-operate with the country's agenda when there are serious issues of rights and freedoms, these problems are almost impossible to solve with the extent of the institution, which we're going to discuss one by one, which we're going to talk about a little bit later. Perhaps later it will be discussed in detail, but for example, there is a 21st article, one of which will be discussed in a moment, which is actually a very advanced attitude regarding the burden of proof. It's obviously translated from the laws of similar institutions, but it's not in this Parliament, when we look at the rights and freedoms that we argue about and talk about every day. The burden of proof does not belong to those who are discriminated against. In fact, this has been a widely accepted sentence in the world for decades in torture crimes. The burden of proof is that if there are enough coefficients, if there are serious signs, then it belongs to the inequalityist, which means it belongs to the one who performs the inequality practice, which means it has to prove that it's not a violation, it has to prove that it's not a violation, it has to prove that it's not a discrimination, it has to prove that it's not an inequality. Now, when we put this beautiful statement about the burden of proof into this law, is this really how it's going to work? I won't go into too much detail, but there was another pain yesterday. Each day, of course, we suffer serious suffering with deaths in the country, but a property manager shared a message with social media, shared a message. I'm not going to state your name, your position. If there's a political debate to take seriously, if he asks, we'll share the address and the person. A paralegal says: "We must execute them in the same manner as the terrorists attack our security forces, as they kill them. The words are his own, and we must execute them in the same way. " It is not enough, he writes a verse under it, and he says: "There is life in short." Now, our skater may not know the cause of the verses or the nullification of them, so it doesn't have to be necessary. You don't need to know the scriptures to be my governor, to be the head of good estate. There is another warning, however, that perhaps you will not commit a crime. I mean, God, oh, God, you've probably got a blood feud going on. He's not saying, "Get revenge, get revenge." I don't think he's saying anything. On the contrary, it's for another message. But, now, let's do what they're doing: let's do what they do: let's do it in a country, and we can't get the governor to answer for the rights violations of police, soldiers, or other security officers, to control them, to do it within the law, not to harm civilians, to act in the sense of judgment, punishment, whatever the legal state requires. Now, some of our friends on the stand here, almost as if armed organizations, illegal organisations, are taking orders from politicians, calling for duty as if they were doing business with them. So, you can't or you can't give orders to government officials, government officials won't listen to you, they won't pay attention to your warnings if you have them, but you expect members of an armed organization to listen to the opposition parties of members of an illegal organization. Dear lawmakers, violence is a result of terrorism. All over the world, in the fight against terrorism in law states, in the political performance of violence, the most fundamental principle is to assume that violence and terrorism are the result. Otherwise, if you start to see violence as a cause, you're actually going to surrender to that violent spiral. It is also the politician's responsibility to face the reasons that have led to this outcome, to take steps that should be done politically, to eliminate whatever needs to be done within the borders of the legal state. Otherwise, the concept of terror becomes a conjunctural position. Look, a few days ago, there was an operation against El Nusra in Adıyaman. Now, at least in Syria, Turkey's allies have been saying that the Al Nusra organization is a terrorist organization; on each platform, when they meet with diplomatic contacts representing Turkey, they don't just call it ISIS; they add Nusra, Ahrar-ush Damascus. Now, as far as I can see, the first operation has been conducted this week, as far as I've heard, but many people know that Nusra is Al Qaeda, and that ISIS is the original organization, a structure that has been separated from it, which has come out of Syria and Iraq, claiming to form an Islamic state. Now, if you've brought up the organisation of the original organisation in a country with the longest border on Syria, such as Turkey, last week, then you need to look in the mirror before you give a lecture on the fight against terrorism. Everyone knows that Ahrar-ush is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey in a very serious way among the members of Damascus, including their passports, or the papers that were found on them when they died, and everyone knows that in Anatolia. As a matter of fact, people go to ISIS and other organisations with their own intention to make Islamic thoughts, concerns, or more Islamic regimes in Syria, fighting and dying, but so far in Turkey about Ahrar-ush Damascus, there is no follow-up, no trial, no arrest process. So I think we need to be a little more careful about these things, a little bit more careful, a little bit more careful, where we're going to recommend something around, where the world sees us, how convincing our words are in the world, and we need to focus on that. Yes, societal dissolution, unfortunately, exposes too severe a violation of rights that cannot be changed by law. I mean, I wish we could solve social dissolution, corruption, degeneration the way we took it down here, and unfortunately the compensation for social dissolution isn't as easy as making a law. If a society has begun to lose its values, if anger, revenge, power display, harassment, theft has become serious in society, it will not be easy to change it when the authorities change. Just as you can't get ahead of yourself by making the law, you can't stop it with a change of power. Generations change, education system, human model, it takes you ten years to change all that. But right now, when you turn on the news morning and evening in Turkey, you see reports of harassment, rape, abuse in almost every school. Now, it's a very grave process, but if we reduce right violations to just a few areas, narrow them down to just a few areas, if we get close, there's no way to stop such a dangerous course, as a political institution, there's no way to prevent it, unfortunately, to take precautions. Yes, the subject of crime and punishment is a very long, very detailed subject. You know, it's also been a subject of a novel that's very valuable from the world's classics, and that the fight against crime can't just be about exposing the criminal, just what's the role of society in this crime, what's the share of the education system, what's the share of the distortion in the economic revenue distribution, let me just say that it's necessary to face it all. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0025par0375	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. İstanbul MP Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Illezdi.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0026par0379	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, who advocates a liberal democracy for a free man, I salute all my citizens who expect us to live a human and honorable life, demanding the superiority of justice and law. In a famous literary poem by Cait Irgat, the narrowest, darkest streets/ very soon they will have a holiday/light and light feet. Here we are today trying to cross the darkest paths to reach the light, but while we yearn for the feasting, we are drawn into eternal mourning. There are thousands of people out there, all alone in the middle of a blind darkness with their pain, each one of them waiting for hope. Concerned about the children's future, the parents want us to relieve their anxiety, there's a bleeding wound, they want us to stop the blood. How far can we do that? We have to ask our own consciences first. That's why this bill we're discussing today is so important to heal wounds, to eliminate injustice, injustice, and inequality. When I imagine the most innocent concern of a 16-year-old Syrian boy who has been removed from his homeland, I can't see anything. As he said, I don't see any hope for the future of the human rights struggle in our country. First of all, it's a bill designed to meet criticism. In general, we're building an institution that protects human rights, fights discrimination, triggers a national prevention mechanism against torture and abuse under the same roof at the same time. Good eye, sounds good. Remember, in the late 1980s, those who ruled Turkey promised to build a garden of roses without thorns, that they would protect human rights and honor. However, we see that our country's human rights report card has made a lot of arrangements, but practices are always problematic. In those days, those who converted Turkey into a cemetery of human rights regulations have already been erased from the historical scene. Guys, there's a fact that two wrongs don't make a right. This bill is designed for visa liberalisation. But democracy, freedom and equality should be what we all have in common. However, more democracy, more freedom and equality are achieved in all areas, but only through the culture of reconciliation, but you cannot see the traces of neither pluralism nor equality in the bill you have brought. The arrangements brought in by such a challenging understanding in democracies have always failed. On the other hand, we can no longer doubt that political will, which has made it a habit to run the country with the bag of laws, put rights and freedoms in a bag. Dear Regents, this is where we raise our hand on decisions that will set a precedent for the future of the country, set a precedent for new generations. You're taking back the bill we discussed today and the struggle for human rights and equality in Turkey; that's why we object. You're missing the definition of discrimination. When dealing with discrimination, you need to deal with people regardless of race, color, language, religion, religion, faith, ethnic identity, political conscience and philosophy. Otherwise, we would be missing the framework of fighting discrimination and drawing it wrong. Which, unfortunately, would justify discrimination by going around the back. During the Commission talks, the minister responded by saying, "We leave the board flexible." Friends, discrimination, inequality, and violation of rights are not flexible. I'm afraid it would be a pleasure if we left flexible measures against any kind of violation of rights. Our country has had more recent, unpredictable, arbitrary, flexible investigations. The unjust arrests, Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, military espionage, suicides and deaths are still in all of our memories. In the bill, you place the national prevention mechanism against torture and abuse under the roof of Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution, which you offer to society as a reform. You're sending the European Union a zero-tolerance message against torture, and I wish you'd be sincere. In Turkey, the main obstacle to fighting torture is punishment. In this bill you brought, you're not referring to the struggle against punishment. For example, the police who shot the 14-year-old boy who lost his right eye with a gas flare have not even been investigated. Most of the investigations launched against police officers who were still violent during the Travel Park process didn't even return to prosecution. In the cases filed, indictments were filed for crimes that would require fewer sentences, and sentences were suspended. If all this isn't punishment, then what is it? If this isn't all human rights violations, then what is it? Friends, basically, people who died in our country stay dead. Why, then, if the Human Rights and Equality Foundation will not correct Turkey's corrupt record? Look, we're going to fight torture. You're saying it's possible in theory, but you're saying something that can't be applied in practice. The number of prisons, detention, central camps, care centres and hospitals to enter the institution's control area was described as 5,000 last year. It is not possible for the institution to carry out this task with the number of staff and budgets envisioned in this bill. Six psychologists, 10 social workers, and you're predicting treatment for those who have been violated; that's a very funny number at the same time. We warn you, if this law is adopted, we'll be back in the 1990s on torture and right violations. We've finished the unsolveds. You said, "We know there are 17 suspects, and we still know that six people are missing in custody." In Ankara alone, 174 people were slaughtered in six months. At the same time, more than 300 soldiers and police were killed. Our 186 children were raped last year, and we see here that the abuse in Karaman is not a coincidence. And then there's the unregistered cases, which are what we should be thinking about. However, you do the most dangerous work when you determine the structure of the institution. By leaving this institution you claim to have built to secure individual rights and freedoms under the control of power, you're making it dependent on political will, so you're making it a state. You're authorizing the Council of Ministers with such open-ended authority that it won't be surprising for us to have people assigned here who don't have merit. The Council of Ministers will elect eight members of the 11-member board, and the President will elect three. He'll choose, he'll choose, he'll choose according to whom, the criteria are unknown. That's how I did it. It's run by understanding. Every time we come to the bench, we say the institution is not in line with the Paris Principles, but you're wrong. The data that we've taken in 2012 proved that we are not in line with the Paris Principles: since it is not independent of political will, because it does not include the NGOs, because it is not pluralist, because it is not financially autonomous due to the allocation of funds from the general budget, the Paris Principles were not found in line with it. So, you guys, I was wondering if there was an application for accretion about the institution that we're closing now? On January 11, 2016, there was an application for accretion. I wonder why that is. Why is there an application for decontamination when this institution is about to be shut down? So we can't apply for accretion again, thinking that the bill was also reversed by the arrangements made in 2012. So it turns out that you're just building the human rights and equality institution of what you feel about yourself. The Turkish-type presidency, meaning Turkish-type democracy, is creating Turkish-type human rights, as you might say. There's no way to determine the human rights violations of the government and board members. It's preposterous. Dear friends, as I finish, I'd like to share a promise that I like. Hallicer Mansur says that hell isn't where we suffer, it's where no one has heard of our suffering. I wish that they could speak people's voices and not suffer and really use their natural rights. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0027par0392	Thank you, Mr. Illgezdi. On behalf of him, Ankara MP Levent Gök will speak. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0028par0396	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have received this statement as a historic warning. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Secretary, were brought to this parliament in 2012 by the Human Rights Institution Act. When this bill was brought in, we had very strong discussions in this Parliament, and when you looked at the reason for Bill of Human Rights in 2012, the 279th Bill of Human Rights, they were stated that the Bill of Human Rights -- in 2012 -- was intended to establish a human rights organization in line with the United Nations Principles of Paris. You stated in 2012 that you had drafted a law under the protection of Paris Principles. On June 20, 2012, I gave the exact same speech, and I came out to you, and after I gave my speech, all AKP MPs came at me, no exceptions; I said: "When you do this, dear friends, I say the law on that day -- the Human Rights Council will not get a valid grade from Europe, and they will not get a valid grade from human rights in Turkey." Shame on us if we don't get Europe, the world, our own people, our own civil society to accept this! So, before we leave here today, my dear friends, please follow our motions carefully. In this way, the Commission's proposal, which comes in the way the government has suggested, is a complete deception, and the Human Rights Council does not come out of it. When did we say that? My dear friends on June 20, 2012. What did the government say? We brought this law under the Paris Principles, he says. So, now, what do you say to the Human Rights and Equality Foundation that you brought in today and we're discussing 149 rows? You're saying that we're bringing this responsibility to the Human Rights Institution of Turkey as a basis for the obligation brought by the EC Protocol, to strengthen the capacity of the institution in terms of the burden -- the burden of torture and cruel prevention mechanism. You're saying that you've brought this law in order to ensure that Turkey is not criticised internationally and that the previous law is not evaluated under Paris Principles. So which one is it now? You brought it back in 2012. You call it the Paris Principles. Now that you're bringing it, we're doing this to look like Paris Principles. Is that right, is that right?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0029par0401	They're both wrong.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0028par0402	My dear friends, they're both wrong. Mr. Secretary, please heed my historic warning. What you did in 2012 was wrong, and today you see that it is wrong, and now you bring it in. The national prevention mechanism you've brought with this law is not, is not, is unacceptable by the United Nations. Why are we saying this? We want Turkey to be a respectable country. We are prepared to carry out our duties as opposition party to ensure any ease, including visa exemption, during Turkey's negotiations with the European Union, but with our warnings, our proposals being taken into consideration. As soon as this law is passed, there is no butcher; it is not accepted by the United Nations. We had a full week in 2012, and now we're arguing for another week. You're stealing the time of the country. If you did wrong that day, come and apologize to us here. (HPP) When the country has a solution to much more important current issues of our people, no ruling spokesman can say, "You do not employ the opposition parties here." It's the power itself that doesn't run the House. You occupy the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by changing a law after a while, it's a shame it's a sin. A minister recently announced that the cost of one hour of parliament's activity was $600,000. It's a shame for our people. It's a law you've made wrong. Again, you don't know the pluralism of the institution, you're authorizing the Council of Ministers to appoint the President. You've privatized everything, you've privatized all the companies in Turkey, you're enormizing human rights, my dear friends. Yes, human rights are being governmentized. Such a painting is unacceptable in terms of human rights. This law is wrong. Come, as these talks continue, bring the structure of the board with a new motion and we will move on to an arrangement that the United Nations will agree to. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0030par0406	Thank you, Mr. Sky. The second speaker on behalf of him will be İstanbul MP Hulusi Şenturk. Here you go, Mr. Senturk.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0031par0410	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Human rights and equality are among the universal values of today's world, and as we all know, these universal values have been declared worldwide by the United Nations Bill of Rights. Of course, the declaration is not the first text in the world in the field of human rights. As far as Western sources are concerned, the Magna Carta Agreement of 1215 is considered the first text on this issue. However, we all know that this agreement is not a text in the field of human rights, but an agreement that was reshared between the rulers and the king who rebelled at the time. Because human rights are built on the understanding that people are born equal and that every human being is honorable, and that's the way it has to be. And that's exactly how it was announced in this sense that every human being was born with the same rights as every human being was born with the same rights before the Westerners, hundreds of years ago, in both the Book of Medina and the Vesikasi, 1,400 years before today, and according to the principles declared, no one is equal to anyone but God, and no one is equal to anyone except their dignity, gender, ethnicity, and status. That is why there is a principle in our understanding. There is a principle: that all it takes is to come into the world as a human being and to have immunity and rights, and that there is no question of the identity of the oppressor and the oppressed in our civilization. No matter what gender, status, wealth, ethnicity, religion, or religion, it is one of the basic responsibilities of all human beings to confront the oppressor and to stand by his religion, his language, his religion, whatever it may be. Well, we need a civilization like that today more than any other day. The Europeans and Westerners we've been referring to for days while this law has been discussed. Human rights are out of the question for me or for this geography. For them, human rights are only subject to violations of the rights of people in their own geography. I ask: Aren't these the ones who were interested in the caretta capettas yesterday when millions of people died under bombs in Iraq? I think we should still have no lesson from Europe, which does not see this violence, while hundreds of thousands of people are being killed in Syria today, and millions of people have to emigrate from their Syrian homes. Dear friends, we are obliged to build our own understanding on our own values of civilization and to show the world true civilization. What the West is calling civilization today is a wild empire built by the resources from people they've exploited for centuries, and what they're trying to offer us today is a monument to the efforts of these blood-based civilisations, which are still seen as markets in our worlds. So we have to build our own civilization based on our own values. Dear friends, since we came to power as the EC PARTY in 2002, we've taken steps in every field to raise the democracy bar, to improve the legal climate, to ensure that our people live even more honorably and humanly. In the field of human rights, a significant step has been taken with the Law on Human Rights, dated June 21, 2012, and the Law on Human Rights, 6332, and this institution has been established to work, and the national prevention mechanism is given to this institution in the following year. With the bill on our agenda today, the institution is restructured, and the task and authority to fight discrimination is given to this institution. The bill defines and defines attitudes and actions that cause discrimination. Again, the draft law gives the institution the authority to conduct a resounding process, which brings ease to the application. In addition, it aims to establish a stronger, more effective Human Rights and Equality Council by increasing the number of staff at the previous institution with 75 staff members. If this bill is adopted, Turkey will take another important step towards human rights violations and fighting discrimination, but, of course, these are steps that must be taken ahead of final steps, not final steps. With these feelings, I salute you all and wish you a good day.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0032par0417	Thank you. Talks on chapter two...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0033par0419	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0034par0420	Mr. President, I have a request for a statement in accordance with the Civil Code 60.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0033par0421	I've got one too, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0035par0422	Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0034par0425	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, during the Plan and Budget talks, the Minister of Development has just expressed an issue from the Speakership of the Republican People's Party group. To be honest, I didn't understand it at the time. There's a claim going around that the council costs an hour's work, like $600,000. Now, it's not possible to know where this number came from, what it's based on, but when we're doing a simple logic, it turns out that a Parliament that works ten hours a day costs $6 million per month, and when you hit a monthly balance sheet, a cost account is nearly 100 million. It's, for one thing, not believable, so there's no way it's believable. We're here in the House. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] $600,000, $6 million...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0036par0429	Pack it up, please. I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0034par0431	Mr. President, I think you gave me a minute, but you were always giving me two minutes and one minute.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0036par0432	Here, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0034par0433	I mean, it's a big deal. So as lawmakers, we can't see anything that costs $600,000 an hour or $6 million a day. This has to be cleared up somehow. For one thing, the logic is wrong: it's not philosophically right that the work of a Parliament that reflects the will of the people should be kept on a cost account. And you did it, and you did it, and we think you're going to have to tell the people, the public, and the lawmakers in the right way. I view it as a continuation of a policy that, on a slightly conscious basis, tries to render Parliament's overtime unnecessary. If you remember, during the budget talks, both the head of the main opposition party and our esteemed MP who spoke on our behalf from the podium asked about the cost of the palace, and there was no response to the total cost. Now, I find it a little ironic that those who can't make a total cost account of that place, the House, do such a detailed study of the hours of the House, which reflect the will of the people. If there are any details, I would like to request that the Minister -- before he worked for the Plan and Budget Commission -- make a statement to the General Assembly, to the public and to our people. Was the hourly cost account done elsewhere, especially in the palace, outside the House? Is there a comparison? I'd appreciate it if they could fill us all in on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0037par0437	Thank you. Mr. Sky, you've had a request to make a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0038par0441	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've just said that perhaps Mr. Secretary will answer, but I find it helpful to explain in a very clear way why this institution, which was previously adopted by Bill of Human Rights, 279, was not able to carry out its duty that day, which was given to us in gaudy words, is why this institution is needed in this current institution. Because we did some serious overtime that day, and now we're doing some serious overtime. We're working overtime as opposition, but if the ruling party thinks they're trying to cover up a mistake they made by making us do extra shifts, neither the intellectuals in Turkey, nor the democrats in the country will put it aside. Speaking on behalf of the AKP, he said that Turkey is looking at this in accordance with its values, and that Europe is none of his business. I remind the AKP spokesman that the additional protocol for the establishment of this institution is that the current Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu went and presented it to the United Nations at the time when he was Secretary of State, so that we would adopt these laws. So, first of all, I'd like to ask your Prime Minister to give an opinion on the values of Turkey, on the values of Europe. Because Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu himself has presented these laws to the United Nations, in accordance with the additional contract. I wanted to share that information.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0039par0445	Thank you. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motions on those substances, if there are any. There are four motions on the 17th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the statement "30 days" in the subsection (2) of the 17th article of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Institution 149 rows that is being discussed to be changed to "15 days." İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Mit Nuri Okutan Mehmet Erdogan Opens His Mind to Desire Erdem Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 17th article of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality, which is listed in 149 rows, shall be changed as follows. "1-0) Any real and legal person who claims to have been harmed by a violation of the prohibition of discrimination may apply to the institution. The application can also be applied for in the districts through the offices of the districts of the anti-discrimination agencies. There is no way to prevent effective application rights from being used. Applications can be made in writing or verbally. No fee can be taken from the applications." "It is imperative that he or his legal representative's open consent be granted when the victim of violations can be determined personally. In cases when the person cannot be determined or has no consent, consent is accepted." Ahmet Akin Şenal Sarıhan Mahmut Tanal Honorary Namely Tahsin Tarhan Murat Emir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to the 17th article of the Law Bill 149 rows that are being discussed after the fourth joke, and that the following jokes be identified accordingly. Coshkun Çakır Ramadan Can Abdullah Özturk Nureddin Nebati Mehmet Demir Osman Look at your love Applications for discrimination claims dated 22/5/2003 and under Article 5 of the 4857 Work Law can be made in cases where no sanctions have been made after following the procedures laid down in Law and related legislation 4857." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 17 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149 be removed from the bill. Çağlar Demirel İdris Bauken Sibel Yiğitalp Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0040par0484	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0039par0485	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0041par0486	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0039par0487	Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0042par0490	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 17th Article of the Turkish Bill of Human Rights and Equality Act, and I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, among the duties imposed on the institution as the bill mentions the duties of the institution, there is a remarkable expression in the form of monitoring the implementation of international human rights contracts, which Turkey is a party to. So according to this statement, the Human Rights and Equality Institution will monitor the implementation of international human rights contracts signed by Turkey in Turkey. In the basis of the bill on this issue, we find that Turkey is on the side of basic international contracts under human rights law, and that the Constitution has been given the upper hand to these contracts in Article 90, under all important documents of human rights law, under which Turkey has signed and contributed with great praise. Dear lawmakers, the statements used in the basis of the bill conceal the truth, deny the truth; it is misleading in this sense. Turkey is a party to basic international contracts under human rights law. At the same time, however, Turkey's reservations on these contracts are not mentioned, but the reservations are being tried to draw attention to. I'd like to continue my talk with a few examples. Dear MPs, Turkey has put reservations in its International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Turkey has put the International Convention on Rights of Civil and Political Rights on hold. Turkey has put reservations in its International Convention on the Elimination of Every Kind of Racism. Turkey has placed reservations in the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights. Turkey has been reluctant to consider the Convention on the Protection and Development of the Variety of Cultural Statements. Turkey has set reservations on the European Council of Local Governments' autonomy requirement. Of course, Turkey's reservations are not limited by these, they are just a few examples. Dear lawmakers, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to give you some examples of the articles mentioned in international contracts mentioned in the bill as being boasted. For example, Turkey has placed the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights on the 29th Amendment. Let's read what this clause that Turkey puts on its bench: (Made 29-1) The entity states agree that the education of the child is intended for the following purposes: The development of the child's respect for its parents, its cultural identity, its language and values, the national values of its country, or its origins, from which the child lives; The child is prepared to live as a responsible person in a free society, in a spirit of friendship between understanding, peace, tolerance, equality between all peoples, ethnic, national and religious groups, and indigenous peoples, and I will be limited to this example because my time is limited. So, as you can see, Turkey has signed this contract, but put it in the most important article. Dear lawmakers, the fact that the child is prepared to live as a responsible person in a free society, in a spirit of friendship among all peoples, ethnic, national and religious groups, and in a free society, and in the form of an international contract, shows a dire situation in which we are actually looking at human rights. As long as these reservations are sustained, it turns out that the 90th article of the Constitution does not really mean much. Human rights law will not really improve in our country as long as this policy is maintained, and we will have no credibility in international opinion as well. Again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0043par0501	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0044par0503	Mr. President, I want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit01spe0043par0504	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0043par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 65th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough during the vote of Mardin MP Erol Dora and his friends on the 17th article of the Law Bill 149 rows. I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. We now resume negotiations with Bill 149, where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to the 17th article of the Law Bill 149 rows that are being discussed after the fourth joke, and that the following jokes be identified accordingly. Coshkun Cakir (Tokat) and his friends Applications for discrimination claims dated 22/5/2003 and under Article 5 of the 4857 Work Law can be made in cases where no sanctions have been made after following the procedures laid down in Law and related legislation 4857." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0045par0013	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0043par0014	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0046par0015	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0043par0016	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0047par0017	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0043par0018	I'm reading the reason: The 5th Article of Law 4857 regulates the principle of equality in business relations and is linked to an sanction system in the Law, where the verbs against this clause are mentioned. The amendment stipulates that individual application applications on issues subject to the Law's sanction system, which is referred to as not having uncertainty and authority confusion in the implementation and not facing repeated punishments, can be made after the application path to the sanction system is exhausted. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 17th article of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality, which is listed in 149 rows, shall be changed as follows. "1-0) Any real and legal person who claims to have been harmed by a violation of the prohibition of discrimination may apply to the institution. The application can also be applied for in the districts through the offices of the districts of the anti-discrimination agencies. There is no way to prevent effective application rights from being used. Applications can be made in writing or verbally. No fee can be taken from the applications." "It is imperative that he or his legal representative's open consent be granted when the victim of violations can be determined personally. In cases when the person cannot be determined or has no consent, consent is accepted." Murat Amir (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0048par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0043par0030	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0049par0031	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0043par0032	Ankara MP Murat Emir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0050par0035	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0043par0037	Congressmans, please remain silent. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0050par0039	I'd like to start by thanking everyone who's worked for this law and the establishment of Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Foundation. Of course, any effort to do so is valuable and important. Considering that the law has been violated every day in our country, the Constitution has been repeatedly violated, the human rights guaranteed by the Constitution has been constantly violated, we would like to hope that the creation of such a committee will contribute to reducing human rights violations and resolving inequalitys in Turkey, but we have to accept that this may not be so, very little progress. Therefore, friends, it is our duty to address the problem from the basis and to identify the problem and to create solutions to it. What's wrong? The problem is that rather than the lack of laws that guarantee human rights and discrimination bans, these laws are not enforced and enforced, and those who are obliged to do so often violate them. So when we find the problem here, what we need to do is we need to change the mindset and understanding, to improve human rights, to reduce violations and to reduce inequality. You need to know that you can't do this with a board that has been appointed, shaped, and looked into the mouth of political power. One of the main flaws of this bill is that the sanctions of this institution and the board are extremely limited. Look, in this country, starting with Mr. President, political power doesn't recognize the law. You want samples? Today's liveliest subject is the case at the Falls Courthouse. Can Dündar and Erdem Gül are not the only ones who are on trial there; freedom of speech, freedom of press and journalism are on trial, freedom of public information. Okay, Mr. President, let's just remember what he said about this case: he's going to pay his due, I won't let him go. I don't know the Constitutional Court's decision. They go to the European Court of Human Rights. It's obvious we're going to get punished. So, friends, this understanding needs to change. Look, just these three words have been repeatedly violated by the 153th, 138th, and related articles of the Constitution. Now, do you really believe that the institutions and decisions created by such an understanding of political power will serve human rights and the removal of discrimination? Dear friends, for example, in the United Nations Development Organization Human Development Report, we appear to be 69 percent from 149 countries in social gender equality. It's something we'll never digest. And where does that come from, our laws? No, that's because it's a result of the male dominant culture that you're constantly supporting. Thus, with these laws, it is impossible to correct that understanding. In your understanding of the problem, in your mentality, in your lawlessness, in your tyranny, you have to seek out and develop solutions from there. Look, she's saying about her, that's what she's saying, she's got a Turkish-type woman's rights sense. He tries to do the same in the Constitution, just as he does in the Constitution. Dear friends, I'm going to tell you a simple fact that human rights, women's rights, do not change by place, geography, nationality. And it takes its universality to keep it from changing. Therefore, there is no women's rights that are unique to us. The political power that this understanding holds will form as many boards as it wants, make as many laws as it wants, never solve the inequality. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0051par0049	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the statement "30 days" in the subsection (2) of the 17th article of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Institution 149 rows that is being discussed to be changed to "15 days." İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0052par0056	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0051par0057	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0053par0058	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0051par0059	Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0054par0060	Motive...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0051par0061	Okay, here you go. Article 2 of Article 17 of Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Act, titled "Admissions and Review of the Act," determines the application method of real and legal individuals who have been violated by the institution's authority and responsibility. Infractions in the field of human rights and equality may be very diverse, and the consequences may be unpredictable. The change is intended to ensure that the application process is not delayed, that the institution completes its work before it grows. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are four motions in Article 18: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the declaration of "all kinds of violations of human rights" in Article (1) of Article 18 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality, which has been held in 149 rows, we propose and propose that the declaration of "research and evaluation" be added. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Mit Nuri Okutan Mehmet Erdogan Opens His Mind to Desire Erdem Ruhi Ersoy Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu of Deniz Depboy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 18th article of the Law on Human Rights and Equality Institutions, which is currently in place, will be removed from the draft text of the 6th article. Mahmoud Tanal Tacettin Bayır Dursun Flower Necati Yılmaz Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt Şenal Sarıhan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the removal of Article 18 (6) of Law Bill 149, which is being discussed from the text. Coshkun Çakır Ramadan Can Abdullah Özturk Mehmet Demir Nureddin Nebati Şahin Tin Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 18 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149 be removed from the bill. Çağlar Demirel İdris Bauken Sibel Yiğitalp Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Behçet Yıldırım Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0055par0100	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0051par0101	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0056par0102	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0051par0103	Diyarbakır MP İdris Bauken will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0057par0106	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, at this time, when a legal regulation on human rights is discussed, I would like to say that we have condemned a process where two journalists have been tried for carrying out a constitutional responsibility for their right to information, as they have only done their own professions. Let's get as many legal regulations out of this parliament as we want, including a number of show-and-telling, palliative regulations, no one, no public public opinion, no human rights, there's something good going on in Turkey about expanding freedoms. There's no way we can convince anyone of the argument. Freedom of thought and expression, freedom of the press, as never before in Turkey, is under heavy threat, especially after recent AKP practices in 2011. Today there are still 29 journalists in prisons, and according to the Organization of Journalists Without Borders, Turkey is ranked 149 percent among 180 countries in the Freedom of Press Index. So, when you go to America as much as you want, there are no arrested journalists. Press freedom is not a country ahead of Turkey on human rights. Say, the world doesn't look at them, it evaluates these figures according to the existing objective criteria ahead of it. Look, for a long time, journalists have been subjected to very serious pressures, middle-of-the-street tortures, only in the practical area where they perform their duties. In Silvan, every one of you has seen the suffering of the journalist, the reporter, who has been gunned to his head in the middle of the street, but since that painting has not been interfered with today, journalists are taking part in the accused's chair instead of those who should be in the defendant's chair once again. There's no way to accept that. As of this stage of press freedom, journalists are also required to keep a news watch every week at the site of blockades and pressures and to make a valuable contribution to reporting from there. Likewise, from academics who exercise the right to freedom of thought and expression to writers, everyone continues to be a victim of these oppressive, algebraic practices, unfortunately. I want peace, I don't share in war crimes. The academics who signed the declaration have all been dealt with. There have been numerous talks about collective files on 1,128 academics. Look, 25 academics have been laid off from that process so far. Here, here, the vice president of the ruling party is an academic, and the Prime Minister of this country is an academic. Where they put it, how they can internalize this painting, we're amazed. Do people have to think about your point of view? Do they have to be laid off when they sign a statement that goes against the policies you've made, that criticizes those policies? Four academics were resigned, had to resign. 68 academics were threatened with the right to live. 37 academics have been suspended. There were 33 arrests and home invasions. So imagine that if the group vice president hadn't been here as MP, he'd have been raided in front of his children in the middle of the night and taken into custody because of an opinion he had expressed. There's no way to understand these problems without empathy. Four academics were arrested; Esra Munchan, Muzaffer Kaya, Kıvanç Ersoy and Coral Camcı were still under arrest and were sent to prison to search naked. Lastly, you know, Mr. Prime Minister stated that both this arrest and this application were wrong, but if there's a mistake, it's a mistake for academics to still be in prisons. So, with the legal provisions that you brought here without doing a lot of radical democratic reforms on thought, expression and freedom of the press, I say we can't fit in with the EU criteria, and we can't make anyone believe in us, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0058par0114	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0059par0116	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0058par0117	Here you go, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0059par0118	I'll take your word for it, but I don't see it as teasing. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak according to 69, because my name is mentioned.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0058par0119	You want to speak according to 60...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0059par0120	I want it according to 69.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0058par0121	Okay, here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0059par0124	I take it without teasing, but I won't answer without teasing.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0058par0125	You have something else to say.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0059par0128	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs... Mr. Idris, thank you, and you didn't tease me, so I'll tell you that I've made a formal promise. It's the area of thought that we suffer the most as a tradition we come from, that we suffer the most, that we suffer the most, that we are persecuted. In this country, especially -- and I don't mean by our group -- it's not just the concept that people who believe, people who believe -- it could be from any party -- the paintings they've been exposed to and exposed to in the recent and distant past, are also well known by this preparation. In that sense, as a lecturer, I strongly refuse to allow any thought or thought to be given to a person's life to be restricted because of the thought of them, to limit their freedom. Whether on the right or on the left or on the religious or the atheist, my opinion is so clear. It's the most fundamental, most important right of human beings to express their thoughts and opinions alone. I'd like to underline that. On the other hand, as Mr. Prime Minister explained, academics, teachers, if they have a case against them, it is essential that they be tried without arrest. He said that, too. Again, Mr. Prime Minister -- if you remember two things he said -- I would put my freedom of speech ahead of all sorts of things. He made it very clear that I would lose my freedom of speech, that I would lose my freedom of expression. I feel the same way, I'm sure, that the preparation here is similar, but after all this, no academic has the privilege of calling on violence, inviting them to crime, inviting them to unlawful conduct while explaining their views. If I were me, I'd say no to someone else explaining their thoughts to the end, yes, but to lawlessness and violence. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0060par0136	Thank you, Mr. Coshkun.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0061par0137	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0060par0138	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0061par0139	Let me put it in context, because I listened carefully, and he didn't give me any hard feelings.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0060par0140	Congressmans, could you be quiet? I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0061par0142	I wish Mr. Group Vice President had adopted those issues that he had expressed on the stand, his party, the party group as a principle. The words the Prime Minister used recently, we also cared about all public opinion. However, it is also important to remind you that the arrest process of the four academics occurred right after the statement of the current President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who was the founder of the EC PARTI.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0062par0144	If they're guilty...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0061par0145	Therefore, I regret to inform you that through a political judgment, a sense of custody, these fellow academics continue to be victims, to remain in prison, in a far different way than the political attitude expressed by the deputy president of the group. It's impossible to accept that this country must be spared. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0063par0150	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, the motions I'm going to read are of the same nature. I'm going to process the motions together, and I'm going to promise the motions separately to those who have them. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 18 (6) of the Law on Human Rights and Equality Act (149) be removed from the draft text of the 6th joke. Mahmoud Tanal Tacettin Bayır Dursun Flower Necati Yılmaz Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt Şenal Sarıhan The signatures of the other motion are: Coshkun Çakır Ramadan Can Abdullah Özturk Mehmet Demir Nureddin Nebati Şahin Tin Does the Commission participate in the same motions as read?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0064par0168	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0063par0169	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0065par0170	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0066par0171	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0063par0172	I'm reading the reason: The assessment of the settlement process, in the third joke of the same clause, is intended to be removed from the text, as the board's decisions will become impossible to assess as an expert report on the judiciary, in view of the ruling that declarations or statements cannot be used as evidence in investigations and prosecutions.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0067par0175	Motive...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0063par0176	On the motion...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0067par0177	Motive...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0063par0178	I'm reading the reason: (6)-149 Orders of Turkey Human Rights and Equality Institution 18 of the Bill of Law. Article (6.) The joke has been suggested that this provision be removed from the provision of the clause, as it would be considered an intervention in the discretion and right of the independent courts. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the declaration of "all kinds of violations of human rights" in Article (1) of Article 18 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality, which has been held in 149 rows, we propose and propose that the declaration of "research and evaluation" be added. Spiritual Ersoy (Osmania) and friends
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0068par0186	Mr. President, I think there's a locksmith table over there. There's an interesting sight there.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0063par0187	Where? I didn't hear.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0068par0188	There's an interesting view in the back row of the ruling party.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0063par0189	Friends must be sensitive.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0069par0190	They're discussing the motion.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0063par0191	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0070par0192	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0063par0193	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0071par0194	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0063par0195	On the motion...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0072par0196	Motive...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0063par0197	We're reading the motive. The amendment to the 18th article, titled Human Rights and Equality Act, titled "Instruction Reviews" of Turkey, was intended to be explicitly determined what the meaning of the application is and to be judged by the institution's detailed handling of these applications. Meanwhile, as part of the agency's field of duty, the investigations and evaluation activities are also under the jurisdiction of the agency. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motions accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 19 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of "Human Rights and Equality personnel assigned by Human Rights and Equality Officers and other members of the President" be removed from the draft text in the first article of Article 19 of Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Act 149. Mustafa Mit Nuri Okutın Ruhi Ersoy İsmail Faruk Aksu Open Mind Mehmet Erdoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 19th article of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act, which is listed in 149 rows, shall be changed in the following way. 31.03.2016 In order for the president to authorise the first joke, he is authorized to ask for information and documents related to all public institutions and institutions and other legal persons, to examine them, to take their samples, to receive verbal information from them, to consult with those who have been written or deprived of their freedom or taken into protective custody, prisons, detention centers, rehab centers, stations, outposts, hospital inmates, to visit, to observe them, and to organise the necessary transcripts. Public institutions and institutions and other real and legal persons must facilitate the visits of the institution and meet its demands without delay. Ahmet Akin Şenal Sarıhan Mahmut Tanal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 19 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149 be removed from the bill. Çağlar Demirel İdris Bauken Behcet Yıldırım Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Kasdri Yıldırım Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0073par0227	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0063par0228	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0074par0229	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0063par0230	İstanbul MP Hüda Kaya will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0075par0233	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding the 19th Amendment of Turkey's Bill of Human Rights and Equality Act 149 rows. In the 19th Amendment, the employer or... excuse me...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0063par0236	Congressmans, please remain silent. Here you go, Mr. Rock. Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0075par0238	Other tasks, Human Rights and Equality Experts, Human Rights and Equality Assistants and other institutional staff assigned by the President are being carried out through review, research, visit and report tasks given to the Agency by this Law or other legislation. Dear friends, the human rights field is too vital to be handed over to the government. As I read in the same (1)th bend, comments on the (2)th and (3)th column indicate that all powers can be met by committees appointed by the head of the institution. For God's sake, what kind of example are we looking at that has been handed over to the institutions of the state for years? Somehow he's been arrested, convicted and handed over to prison institutions, which means that what happened to the children in the state's detention centers, even the scandals that only reflected on the outside, can cause us to see and realize. We know that we all saw what happened to the children who were in Shakran, and to them. If it's left to the state's monopoly, can we really believe that any problem that we have with all the areas of human rights is going to be dealt with by this institution? Look, from education to politics, from religious and religious sects to segregation, violence and harassment, we've become a society that can't be avoided. Now, how can we solve these problems in an institution dominated by state ideology or mentality? Even in the pick-up of garbagemen, how can you hope to resolve them when you have a sense of a state where those who have flame are being wiped clean and separated? On February 28th, what we had yesterday as headscarved women became a much further distinction. We have returned to a society of greater discrimination, hatred, and anger. I'll give you an example: There was a mosque in Çorum, in Osmancık district, in the site of the Kötbaba shrine of the Alevis, and an imam was appointed. Suppose this problem comes to the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey, in a situation where even the Alevi garbageman is not taken with a religious and stateist mentality, how will the solution to these Alevi's natural, righteous demands be found? We're going to refer to this as a service? Friends, I'm out of time, of course, and we think that the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey is not only under the control of the government and the President, but also the representation of all different NGOs, women institutions, representatives of communities with different beliefs and sects, and that's the only way we can reach a social solution to human rights problems in a common language. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0076par0244	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0077par0248	Request roll call.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit02spe0076par0249	You have a roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Kayşoğlu, Mr. Emir, Mr. Akın, Mr. Akadil, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Çarak, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Kesici, Mr. Köse, Mr. Koksal, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Torun, Mr. Green, Mr. Topal, Mr. Özdish. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-01sit03spe0076par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 65th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of İstanbul MP Hüda Kaya and his friends' motion on the 19th article of the Law Bill 149 rows, the roll call was not enough. I'm going to repeat the roll call now. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] Members of parliament, since the second roll call has not been found enough, the decision (11/3) is required to discuss with Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ (11/4) the main number of proposals regarding Family and Social Policy Minister Sema Ramazanoglu on Monday (April 4th 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
