tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 127th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, Van and Elazig, we curse the traitorous terror attacks on our provinces as the Court. We ask God's mercy for the martyrs who lost their lives in this vile attack. We offer our condolences and patience to their families and relatives. We pray for immediate healing for the wounded. We're so sorry. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement is from Sivas MP Hilmi Bilgin, who asked for a statement on the coup attempt on July 15, 2016. Here you go, Mr. Scholar.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0002par0012	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, yesterday and today at Van and Elazığ, I wish our traitors, low and treacherous martyrs, and our civilian citizens, immediate healings to our wounded, as a result of a vicious terrorist attack on the police station and police department. Once again, I condemn all terrorist organizations, including the separatist terrorist organization, and those who can't openly condemn and support them. Our nation's unity and unity, our government's steel fist, will end these traitors, this nation, this nation's enemies. Again, 17 years ago, on August 17, 1999, I ask once again for the mercy of our citizens who lost their lives in the earthquake. May my Lord never cause such suffering to our country and nation again. In this regard, we, the state and the nation, must all take the necessary lessons and take the necessary precautions. Mr. President, on July 15th, I strongly condemn the attempted, treacherous coup attempt by a bunch of terrorists of Hashhashi Fethullahist terrorist organization who infiltrated our army, who had infiltrated our Prophet's army, and who were part of our country. This great nation, this geography has witnessed many coups, coup attempts and trials, but no attempt and coups have allowed this nation to experience the vileness and treachery of the terrorist organization. In the process that began many years ago, they waited for the appropriate time to refer to our national will, our sovereignty and future by infiltrating state mechanisms, especially our army, our security and judicial organization, and on the evening of July 15th, they attempted this treasonous enterprise. Our nation has given the best answer to these scoundrels who have sold their honor and honor for a dollar over a lifetime of wimps, cowards, and code names. This terrorist coup attempt was eliminated by the glorious and honorable resistance of our nation, which felt its national and native under the strong leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The great Turkish nation, by the brave and courageous call of our President, has broken the game of traitors in its courageous stance, from the very first moment to claim its own will, its own future, its homeland, its flag. Our nation has given 240 martyrs in the struggle for the second will and future. I hereby give thanks and mercy to all our martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for their country, for their flag, for their holy name's sake. Their dwelling will be Paradise, and my Lord will grant us their intercession. The heroic sons of this nation have once again shown the seven heifers what they can accomplish under difficult circumstances when it comes to the country, the flag, the tyrant. This nation has shown that the true power is not in the tank, not in the rifle, but in a generation of faith and faith, not by not saluting the tank that turns its barrel against the nation. Dear lawmakers, the country, nation, the flag of love and faith is the basis of our nation's defeating the coup attempt without firing a single bullet at the armed terrorist organization, when it was called by our President on the evening of July 15th and did not leave the square until his second instruction. I'd also like to point out that the twenty-seven-day national watch has not caused a criminal incident, has not broken a window or damaged the environment. Anyone who feels domestic and national, all colors of the nation, all parts of the nation, have given the necessary response to traitors, all non-national elements, and enemies of the country. Members of lawmakers, as state and nation, we should all take the necessary lessons from the coup attempt and the brave and glorious fight against this attempt and set up the next process in that direction. On both sides, we will never forget the 15th of July: First, we will not forget the vile attempt of traitors who sold honor, honor and dignity to the nation, on July 15th, for a dollar. Second, we will not forget the generation of Asim, who has eliminated this enterprise, and has found meaning in the testimony of our nation's poet, and who has not broken his flag and his honor, and who has not forgotten it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. Scholar. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to Bartın MP Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya, who asked for a comment on the flood disaster in the districts of Amasra and Kurucashile. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yalcinkaya.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0004par0029	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath outside the agenda of the flood in the districts of Amasra and Kurucashile, Bartın. I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, I ask God's mercy on our martyrs who lost their lives in yesterday's Van My condolences to all of us. Dear friends, there have been floods and landslides in many areas, especially in the coastal areas, due to the heavy rain that began in the evening hours of 12/8/2016 and continued during the night, causing significant damage to our districts of Amasra and to our coastal areas. Bartin-Kurucasille-Cide road has been closed for six days due to landslide and landslide. There is no access from Kurucashile to Bartın. Transport is made through Cide-Kastamon. Because of the village's landslide and landslide in Karaman, Square, Winged, Tea Six, Aydoğmiş and Kavablı, the roads are still blocked and cannot be transported as of today; there is no electricity or water in these villages. Because of the landslide and landslide in the villages, the region's people's livelihood -- the nut-plant fields -- were destroyed, and were dragged into the sea, due to the heavy floods of collars, as well as the village's nearly 200 tons of nuts. In the village of Tekeönu, all the businesses were flooded, and the tradesman could not save anything. Fishermen's boats, their nets, the shipyards of wooden boats and yacht producers have been destroyed, torn to pieces, gone to the sea. Our citizens are very victimized. They expect immediate healing of their wounds, repair of their injuries. Our citizens here haven't had a hot bowl of soup in six days, and they've been fed with the dry bread that's been distributed. The tent has not been distributed to people whose house has collapsed or whose home is in danger of collapse. "We have been abandoned to our own destiny. " The villages of Chakra, Kalaycı, Esen, Acars, Cumayani, Yahya writers, Emigdin, Gökçındemirci were flooded; the roads in these villages collapsed, and the bridges were destroyed. In Chakraz, the resort, the water network and sewer infrastructure have completely collapsed, and many tourists and business owners have been victimised by what has happened. In the village of Amasra Kalaycı, the village of Amasra is under the floods of business and homes, and our citizens have not been able to save anything. There was another flood in this area six months ago. The chief of the seven villages, under floods of water, have been suffering these disasters for years because of unresolved measures, saying that the rivers that pass through villages have not been reformed, even though they have been conducting written talks to the authorities to prevent floods of water in their districts. Dear friends, because of the flood and landslide disaster, the region is a victim. They expect immediate healing of their wounds, immediate repayment of their losses and losses. They demand a postponement of bank loans, loans, tax and insurance debts. I would like to ask our government to be more sensitive to the removal of the victims of the people of the region, to grant the demands of our citizens as soon as possible. On this occasion, I express my condolences to our citizens, who have once again been victimised by the flood in our region, and to the executives and employees of our institutions who have worked so hard to solve problems from the start of the disaster, and to the people of Bart, I thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0005par0038	Thank you, Mr. Yalcinkaya. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran, who asked for word on violations during detention and arrests. Here you are, Mr. Acar Basian.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0006par0043	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I pray for God's mercy to those who have lost their lives in this war environment in the past year, and to those who lost their lives yesterday and today because of this violence. Yes, you know -- as I said -- there's been a war environment going on in Turkey for over a year, and today we're going to talk about the basis of the right violations that have been going on in prisons as a mirror, as a reflection of this war environment as usual. It is necessary not to think of them as independent of the rights violations, violent environments that occurred outside today, because in 1980 -- as I say in the history of Turkey -- after the 1980 coup -- after Turkey's black stain, after the rights violations in Diyarbakır Prison, again, in Turkey, we are experiencing a process in which right violations have reached the highest point. I'm part of the Human Rights Review Commission in this Parliament, and I'm part of Diyarbakır Five. I'm on the Subcommittee of Lu Prison Review. Yes, we are under the roof of this House of Diyarbakır Five No. We've established the Subcommittee of Lu Prison Review, it's true. One of the aims of these commissions is to identify right violations there, perhaps to rehabilitate their wounds in some way because of their rights violations, but on the one hand, the most important goal of the confrontation commissions is to learn from history, from what happened, and not make the same mistakes in the future. However -- as I said -- in a one-year process, we see that in reflections of the outside war environment, practices that exceeded Diyarbakır prisons in the 1980s took place today. In Diyarbakır Prison, this is not a prison, this is a military school, and you will become a Turk here. In Diyarbakır Prison, I will correct you, erase your memory, transform you into a new personality that no one closest to you would recognize. It was called, "God is not in the Prophet's leave again." There was a letter written, "I am God in the form of Anthalya L." Yeah, like we said, every time in a year, we've been talking about these sick prisoners, who don't come up in any way, who are out of the picture every time, and who are still out of the picture today. We've said it dozens of times from here. Today, Menemen Type R Prison has a Cyber Cross, which is likely to get worse at any moment, but in no way has been taken. Again, there's Emin Ozkan, 78 years old, heavily ill, tortured on his exile routes. Again, yesterday, a group of families, a group of people, approached us, specifically here, under the House of Congress, said that there was a prison research commission, but the Parliament research commission did not perform its function in any way, because during exiles from Sincan Prison to Tekirdağ Prison, these exiles are being carried out, and a patient with brain surgery is being hit in the head with a special blow. Again, let's remember from Diyarbakır Prison and take a look at history: we see a similar one of the Diyarbakır Prisons, which has reached over 100 per cent and has reached 200. In this environment, again in 2016, it has reached 200 per cent of its fullness, and there are 100 to 200 people left in the 60-person wards. We see that people are lying on the ground, no personal needs have been met, especially another force, a force called the ready force, is organizing in prison, torturing prisoners in prison. As a member of the Human Rights Commission, I've called the Human Rights Commission today, and I'd like to address the members of the Human Rights Commission of the three parties here again: if we're not going to investigate these rights violations today, let's not set up a research commission again after 30 years. We're going to learn from the past, we're going to set up a research commission for the truth in the future, we're going to set up a board of confrontations... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Come, let's all take care of the problems of those who have been violated and never open the way to punish those who are punished again. I salute the entire General Assembly again.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0007par0058	Thank you. Congressmans, we just learned that three of our soldiers were killed by an explosion in Bitlis. I really feel bad, and I believe you all feel the same way. We ask for God's mercy on our martyrs. Congressmans, I'm going to give my word to 15 members of parliament who have entered the system, respectively. I'm reading the names of the MPs I'm going to give you now: Mr. Özkan, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Nurlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kayışoğlu, Mr. Ilıcalı, Mr. Akin, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Çayak, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Man and Mr. Özdemir. Mr. Özkan, we'll start with you, please.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0008par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, the PKK and the PKK are soul mates. Both of them are betraying our country, our nation, our state, and our values of civilization. Their betrayal only serves imperialism and the exploitation of our country. In December 2013, the Pennsylvania audio recording that fell on the Internet revealed that the PKK congress had been convened in Washington, and that the meeting under which it had sold its soul had now been decided to return to the bloody and conflicting period. It means that the acts of treason of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) have served the PKK (PKK) and the PKK's betrayal of the PKK (PKK). Today we gave Van and Bitlis six martyrs in the traitorous attack on the P.K.K.K. We wish our martyrs God's mercy and immediate healing for our wounded. It is the fight against PKK, DAİŞ, PYD terrorist organizations, treason and the fight against traitors who are subcontractors of each other. I salute the High Council with a solemn greeting that we will continue this struggle of treason in the nation.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0009par0071	Thank you. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0010par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, in Elazığ this morning, just now in Bitlis, at evening, at Van. One day in Diyarbakir, one day from July 15th, I offer my condolences to the martyrs of nearly 100 of our soldiers and hundreds of our citizens who have been injured. TÜİK unemployment reports were released in May. It's really pathetic. In one month, 146,000 people were added to the unemployed army, and the number of unemployed was over 3 million, according to official figures in the state. If there's no visible resurgence in the economy, employment increases will lose their power at this rate. In this case, unemployment will continue to increase. Adding to the political climate in Turkey, the situation is truly grave. He says the government must take urgent measures to prevent unemployment, and I call on the Ministry to do so. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0011par0078	Thank you. Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0012par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish God's mercy to our citizens and to our security forces who died because of today's terrorist attacks, and to the wounded, and to the wounded. We've been saying that for years because the AKP can't manage Turkey's agriculture. That statement is now well-proved. For years, the price of wheat has been the same, the price of potatoes is dropping, the price of milk is falling, the price of rice is falling, the price of sunflowers is falling, the price of citrus is falling, the price is not going up, even though the price of nuts has fallen. You reset the VAT in the fertilizer, but the price doesn't go up. Meat prices make money for importers, prices don't go down. Turkey has become an imported product paradise. You borrow money, you borrow money, you encourage migration from village to city, you simply can't manage Turkish agriculture.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0013par0084	Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0014par0086	Mr. President, private schools that have been shut down on the grounds that it is connected to the terrorist organization have been transferred to the Ministry of National Education and have been provided with services as a public school. However, national educational directorates have begun to open nearly all of them as imam-hatred schools, regardless of the need for school species in their districts. Two private school buildings have been closed in our Manisa Salihli district and the imam-hatip signs have been put up. Despite the need for motor technical high school in our district and the imam-hatip high school in Salihli, training with students below its capacity, the imam-hating of these schools has led to the right reaction of the district's people. On the basis of the coup, the imam-hating of schools will add another one to the years of training, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0013par0087	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0015par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, our citizens who live in Sultanbeyli district of Istanbul have property issues, parking problems, zoning problems, and also a lot of problems with the hospital. Again, in the same way, a citizen in the province of Chile has a problem with transportation, parking. Since there are no doctors in every department in the hospital, both our citizens and our citizens in Chile are victims. I demand the immediate removal of the victims of these citizens. My regards and regards.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0016par0093	Thank you. Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0017par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. During the harvest season, our farmers were really victimized. At this time, the farmers of Sivas have been handed over to a Canadian firm on the Kangal side; and the side of Gemerek has been delivered to a Kayseri firm. Since the land crop office did not buy it, the lisasian warehouse has condemned the Sivas farmer to private firms, and the Sivas farmer is suffering severe losses here. And from remote areas, because this office doesn't have a pickup center, farmers who don't bring them here and deliver goods, give them a long-distance delivery money, but they can't bring the product back, so they can't deliver it twice as much as they can. He's got to put his hand under the ground crop office on this one. One thing is support. In support, the real manufacturer should get the support of the real farmer, not the deed holders. Because the fields are multi-shared, and therefore the real manufacturer can't get support, he's being victimized. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0018par0100	Thank you. Mr. Ilican...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0019par0103	Yesterday, in Van, in Elazığ, today, in Bitlis, I condemn the plagues of terror with a curse and a curse; I pray to God for our martyrs, for our wounded, for their immediate healing. On the 15th of July, 79 million of our citizens, under the direction of our President against the coup attempt, should be a lesson to all terrorist organizations in which they held their hands, not under a stone, but under tanks, and in the course of nearly a month, as enthusiastically and enthusiastically as they did the first day. All political parties in the Turkish Grand National Assembly should also announce to the world that they are one voice, one heart. Our nation, who teaches a lesson against the Parallel terrorist organization, will respond the same way to all terrorist organizations. In this regard, our nation's patience is exhausted. Today's the day. Let's put our reaction into action as all political parties. He says we should increase the climate of reconciliation between our political parties and make it concrete in today's parliamentary work.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0018par0105	Thank you. Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0020par0108	Van, Elazig, and finally, unfortunately, I wish God's mercy and immediate healing to those who were killed in the treacherous terrorist attacks of Bitlis, and I curse those who are terror, supporters, and instruments. Although the Finance Ministry had nine more months to make arrangements, many were victimised in 11 ▪ the substance she was quickly accepted last night. It's said that when it comes to the subject of the victimization of experts within your ministry, Mr. Secretary, you're very upset and you don't care. I'm expressing the problem of not only the experts of 24,000, but a very large group of victims with their families. After all, expertise is a career. It's supposed to be the same status, whether it's in the country or in the center. The victims of income experts need to be compensated. It's the only expert staff with financial responsibility for treasure damage. In this current bag bill, we repeat once again the removal of the victims of the victims of your ministry's personnel.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0018par0110	Thank you. Mr. Tiger Liberty...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0021par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I condemn the treacherous terror attacks on our country, and I ask God's mercy on our martyrs, and for the immediate healing of our wounded. In every district of Turkey, unemployed professional teachers who serve in every village, who serve in every village, who the Ministry of National Education does not consider an officer, who the Ministry of Labor does not see as a worker, continue to wait for a staff of staff who have applied to majors such as clothing, computer, crafts, machine embroidery, public games. Master educators, such as 22,000 of them and no job guarantees, severance pay, have already earned their rights, such as staff members. The government employs expert teachers at the institution they want. For example, 20,000 masters in the Diabetes Work have given a single KHK (a) staff, while the same status continues to ignore skilled teachers, many of whom are college graduates. I wonder why they don't hire these master lecturers who start courses, rents, electricity, water costs by themselves.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0022par0116	Thank you. Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0023par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a criminal race going on in our country. Two days ago, Hüseyin Utku, a 5-year-old police officer, died with his father in an attack on a bomb-loaded vehicle in Bismil. Is this little boy, this mother's only crime, living in this country? Since yesterday, what is the crime of our people who have been injured and killed in the terrorist attacks that have just happened one after another in Van, Hakkari, Elazığ, Bitlis? Every day at this time, we curse terror, terror supporters. Today we pray for the mercy of innocent people who have been terrorized. The government that doesn't understand the danger within arm's length can't rule this country, we're dealing with a government that doesn't even understand the need to resign.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0022par0121	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0024par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. We live in a country surrounded by three seas. There are ponds all over our country and swimming pools in almost every county, but most of our citizens don't know how to swim, and when they go into the water to cool off, drowning is common. Yesterday, a citizen in Mut district of Mersin, my constituency, died of drowning in the Göksu River, where he entered to cool off. Swimming courses are considered part of education in developed countries, while only a limited number of us benefit from them. As a sign of this, our country has never had a major international success in swimming sports. Is it not unthinkable for our children to be given swimming lessons and practice in schools as part of gym classes? To our martyrs who died today, I pray for God's mercy, and for our wounded, and for speedy healing.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0025par0126	Thank you. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0026par0129	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I condemn treasonous terrorist attacks in different parts of our country; I ask God's mercy on our martyrs, urgent healings for the wounded, patience for our nation. August 17th-25th is the week of Ibn Sinai. Ibn Sina, one of the greatest figures in the history of Islam's thinking, was chosen in various areas of knowledge and skill, such as philosophy, mathematics, astronomy, physics, chemistry, medicine, and music, and was interested in the definitions of mathematical terms in mathematics, and in making sensitive observations in astronomy. First of all, Ibn Sina, a physician, is not so blind as no one wants to see. Ibn Sina, who said that a bottle of ink is better than a bar of gold. I am afraid of an ox because he has a gun, but he has no brains. Terrorists are not acting with their own minds, but with their own. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0027par0133	Thank you. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0028par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I curse terror, ask God's mercy for our martyrs, and share their pain. Social security for our pensioners is the name of the system that guarantees the future against risks. There are nearly 11 million pensioners in our country. There is no integrity in calculating pensions, and the difference between income and monthly areas is a victim. Under the hunger limit, a significant percentage is paid. We have two holiday bonuses in Republican People's Party rule for pensioners. Our call to the government is to give pensioners a bonus on the Day of the Sacrifice. Retired people are unable to sacrifice or even give their grandson a holiday allowance. Resolving the pensioner's problem will improve their lives. Meanwhile, the expectations for promotions continue, and the expectations of pensioners in this matter must be concluded as soon as possible, and the support needed for pensioners to have a better life. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0029par0140	Thank you, too. Dear Man...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0030par0143	Mr. President, thank you. Yesterday, Van, today, Elazig and Bitlis... my condolences to our nation. We will curse and condemn terror to the end, but we will not cover up the truth. Despite all the support given by the AKP's Parliament, he has failed miserably in the fight against terror and violence. The AKP government is helpless and can no longer rule Turkey. What we need to do against the threats of coup, terror and violence is to hold the secular, democratic, social law state until the end, not to narrow freedoms, but to expand freedoms. As part of the State of Emergency practices, we also see that in our province of Çanakkale, we also see that a number of people whose lives have been exposed to acts against secularism and struggles have been taken into custody and have been taken into custody without any concrete evidence against them. Justice for these people must be brought to justice at once. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0031par0147	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0032par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. From the first day I began my assignment, I raised our concerns about the organization of the congregation in our educational system at every opportunity. Today, we are all witnessing our educational system collapse. As a result, we face the problem of schools, universities, students, educators, and administrative staff who have been shut down due to the construction of this congregation. During a meeting with the president of the RSR yesterday, we delivered the victims, demands and proposals of students, academics and administrative staff who were closed down, as academics and members of the Republican People's Party. We call again to the government, calling for the students to complete their education smoothly, especially as soon as possible, to conduct a fair investigation into academic and administrative staff, who are not associated with the construction of a certain congregation.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0031par0152	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm going to make a commitment now to the group's deputy presidents who are demanding a word in order of demand. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0033par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. The traitorous attacks of the terrorist organization PKK are continuing. In an attack on the police station yesterday in İpekyol district of Van. We have lost one police officer, two civilian citizens, 20 police officers and 73 citizens who were injured. In trying to heal the wounds of the attack on Van, three of our officers were killed and 146 injured in the attack on the District Police Department in Elazığ this morning. We just received word of another attack from Bitlis. Three soldiers, one ranger, one martyr, seven wounded. I wish God's mercy on our martyrs, his grieving relatives, and his great Turkish nation, and an urgent healing for our wounded. The PKK's attacks are no longer a surprise. We're seeing attacks that increase day by day in the same way. With these attacks, the true purpose of PKK terrorism has repeatedly shown itself. The PKK aims at all of our citizens without realizing the language, religion. These attacks have only one name, slaughter. The preventive measures and technological resources must be mobilized immediately. On the other hand, the separatist terrorist organization's attacks have repeatedly shown that our country is facing a violent wave of terror. Threats to our national presence, unity and unity are increasing day by day. The PKK must not be neglected while dealing with it.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0034par0161	Mr. Akçay, complete, please. I'll give you an additional minute.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0033par0163	Those who have teeth for Turkey want to put our country under duress. The July 15 attempt is carried out in treason by the PKK, while the fight must continue without discrimination from the terrorist organisation. These attacks are all over the place, the PKK, ISIS, etc. If the attack is complete, the defence will be complete. There's no defense, there's self-defense; that's the whole country, the whole nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0034par0165	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0035par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. In the last week, we have citizens who have lost their lives and were injured in bombings in Mardin Kızıltepe, Diyarbakır Sur, and Van Nahda yesterday, and today at Elazig headquarters. In any city, we once again emphasize that we find such attacks within the settlements of our citizens unacceptable, and we condemn these attacks. We share with all our people the suffering of our citizens who lost their lives and were wounded. Again, we wish God's mercy to our dead citizens, their family's condolences, and immediate healing for the wounded. We never agree that explosions, violence, bombs, and death are part of our everyday life. We repeat once again our call for immediate stoppage of blood, the end of violence, and to take steps to resolve our problems by discussing them. Despite all the pain we've been through, we'd like to once again remind and emphasize that democracy, without peace and resolution, will not be possible without democracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0036par0173	Thank you, too. Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0037par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. I pray to God for the mercy of our martyrs who died yesterday in the acts of terror in Elazıg and Bitlis, and for the immediate healing of our wounded. The coup attempt, which was attempted to be carried out in Turkey through the PKK terror organization on July 15th, is apparently trying to normalise violence by taking terrorist activities to the southeast of our country, along with the PKK terror organization, which is used as a tongs of foreign countries. The extraordinary state-of-the-art decision, taken after the July 15 coup attempt, is not only related to the terrorist organisation, but also to the fight against all terrorist organisations. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we must strive to demonstrate this agreement in the best way and to contribute to the government, especially as part of our people's unity and consensus on the fight against terrorism. Again, I condemn terror and terrorists with violence and curse. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0038par0181	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0039par0184	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, in the last four days, when we've been packing up after July 15th in particular, in the last four days, Diyarbakır, Van, Elazig and Bitlis, even Mardin Kızıltepe, has sent us all to a deep environment of anxiety, Mr. President. I've said it a dozen times in this House, and once again, we're ashamed, we're ashamed as four political parties. When there was an attack on the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we became one and held the national will, we did it right. The national will in parliament is not symbolic. Turkey owns the nation and its representatives, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Sitting tied up in front of such a grave painting, wishing my condolences doesn't sit well with me and my party. This Parliament, the presidency, the political party groups have to show a higher reaction to this painting. We heard about the explosions yesterday, in Van. Is the value of this national will only one attempt to understand that we have blessed God, that we care so much about him, that we care so much for him? Does this government have no obligation or responsibility to inform this Parliament? When you come in, we rule the state with the psychology of paying the account of the lost sheep on the side of the frigate.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0040par0189	I'll give you an extension. Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0039par0191	Are the lives of dozens of soldiers, police, civilian citizens less valuable than the sheep lost at the edge of Fırat? I'm recommending and recommending that the government inform the Grand National Assembly of Turkey immediately and not be brought to the agenda without informing the government. No one makes fun of Parliament anymore. The government must come immediately and inform us of the events of these last days. (CHEERING) And I say, "May God have mercy on you, whether you like it or not," but let this be the last time. The only organ that will make this the end is the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0040par0194	Thank you, too. Yes, we'd appreciate it if your request was met...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0039par0196	There's no government. Where is the government? There's no government.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0040par0197	But in the meantime, in terms of working economy, let's move on to the agenda.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0041par0198	It's not a matter to be desired, Mayor, you have to invite the government. It's not his wish, as you can see.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0040par0199	Thank you. We're going on the agenda.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0042par0201	You can call the government, Mr. President, at least call the government.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0043par0202	I don't think we should go on the agenda until the government gets here.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0040par0203	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0044par0204	And pay your respects, and use your presidential loan before it comes up.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0040par0205	Thank you, thank you. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures that need to be taken by investigating the working times, seizures and rights of the nurses, we respectfully submit to the need for a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution under the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98, Turkey's Parliamentary Assembly. 1) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] 4) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 5) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 6) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] 7) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] [[Osmaniye]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] 20) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Sakarya]] [[Ankara]] As of today, the hunger limit in Turkey is $1,391 euro, the poverty limit is $4,530, and our nurses are struggling to live on wages below the poverty line. Our self - sacrificing sisters' salaries and autonomy rights are incompatible with today's economic conditions. Due to the inadequacy of our nurses' additional indicators, their salaries are far below what they deserve. With many responsibilities, a new arrangement is needed in the seniority and titles of our poor - working sisters. Health care compensation is the right of all our nurses. Our sisters who already work under heavy conditions are even more worn out by long hours. Nurses' working hours must be restricted by consideration of human criteria. Security, given the economic, geographical, social and cultural conditions, should reorganise the levels of the nurses' place of deprivation. In order for nurses to develop themselves professionally, they must be encouraged to attend international and international scientific meetings, and the relevant legislation must be regulated accordingly. With the need to major in nursing training, the need for clear job descriptions is growing from day to day. In the same line of work and in the same business, in different status, practices that expose our nurses to different wages and social inequality appear to be disrupting domestic peace. Resolving the problems of legislation that have led to different autonomy and economic rights is of great importance in establishing domestic peace. Resolving additional allowances and bonuses to post-retired salaries should be covered by healthcare workers' welfare levels for post-retired pensions. As for the above grounds, I would like to ask that a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98 of the Turkish National Assembly's Articles 104 and 105, in order to determine the measures that need to be taken by investigating the issues of our nurses. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 1 of the 2872 Environmental Law states: "The aim of this Law is to protect, improve, improve the environment, which is the common presence of all citizens; the best use and protection of land and natural resources in rural and urban areas; the prevention of water, soil and air pollution; the protection of the country's natural and historical wealth and the protection of plants and animals, and the provisions of present and future generations, in line with certain legal and technicalities, in line with the goals of economic and social development." As stated in Article 1 of the Law, all projects and investments that concern nature and the environment must adhere to the principles of sustainable development and to the principles of natural resources, preventing pollution of air, soil and water in accordance with urban and rural areas, and should be legal and technical to take into account the principle of securing health and living levels of present and future generations. Any project that threatens our future, our living areas, our health, that harms the environment in such a way that does not apply to these principles is against the law. In addition, our country is part of many international contracts such as the UN-National Biological Variety Convention, the UN-Clim Exchange Framework Convention, the UN-Fighting Convention on Desertion, the Ramsar Convention on conservation and sustainable use of natural resources. In this framework, authorities who make decisions on land and natural resource use must establish a participating approach, taking into account the opinions and suggestions of non-governmental shareholders (such as business rooms, locals, NGOs) in their decision-making process. Reports of the Paris Climate Summit in December indicate that Turkey is in danger of desertification in 2060. Again, Turkey is one of the most negative effects of climate change in the Mediterranean basin, according to intergovernmental Climate Change Panel (IPCC) studies and assessment reports. Therefore, rational use of natural resources in our country has to be carried out by policy and strategy. The Kelkit Valley is one of the areas in our country that need to be protected, and is an important point in the biodiversity of its flora and fauna values, showing transitional properties between the East Black Sea and the Eastern Anatolian regions. However, dozens of HES projects have been launched on the lines of Erbaa, Niksar, Reshadia and Kovilhisar, along the Kelkit Valley, without any higher-scale basin management plan. For centuries he has been under great threat from the project of the Yermamak Water hydropower plant (HES), which has passed through the village of Karakaya, which has given life to the Tokat, to the people and to nature. Construction of the project has been launched, with the state's official institutions, correspondence of the relevant ministries and the process of the trial under way, without a formalisation decision. "CED is not necessary." It is against the law to launch this project, which will plunder forests and creek beds without decision-making and publicisation efforts. If this project is done, thousands of people who live in villages that live in the water flowing from Green Mill will be dehydrated. The people without water, whose streams are dried will be destroyed, and agriculture and animalism in the region will be severely damaged, and the natural environment, which has been part of its culture for centuries, will be destroyed. Water is life, and water being rented to companies for the purpose of unplanned, unaccounted for electricity production is the plundering of our natural resources, our lifeblood. In the context of the geologic, hydrologic and natural properties of land, the health and integrity of ecosystem services, the importance and location of water resources in the local economy, the axis of the flow system and the extent in which local citizens will be affected, we propose to international contracts related to our country's entity, whether it is in accordance with the Environmental Law and CED regulations, to investigate the development of problems that have arisen, according to the Constitutional University's 98 pp.9, and the 104th edition of the TBMI Interior Chart, and the development of Articles on the basis of the 105th, and the proposal of the Parliament. [[Slap]] [[Mersin]] [[Balıkesir]] [[40s.]] [[Adana]] 6) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] 19) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Denizli]] [[Samsun]] 22) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] 23) Bulent Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Tripoli]] [[Edirne]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The goal of unemployment insurance entering our working life through Law 4447 is to ensure that the employee will not be deprived of a human life while he is unemployed in exchange for the premiums he has paid during his work. It is the duty of a modern and social government to look to the future with hope. The application for unemployment insurance is one of those measures. In short, unemployment insurance is defined as mandatory insurance that operates in an insurance technique, which covers the loss of income for people who have lost their jobs without any intention or flaws, while working in a workplace. The premium in the notifications presented by the employer each month to the Social Security Agency is insured through the actual earnings, meaning that the worker is 1 per cent, while the employer is paying an unemployment insurance premium by 2%, and the state is funneling its funds to the Unemployment Insurance Fund in order to address the unemployed by paying 1 per cent of its share. Total fund revenues are created by adding moisture revenues and latent interest. On 25/8/999, a large financial deposit was created in the unemployment fund, which entered our working life with Law 4447. As of November 2015, 92 billion 108 million 527 000 TL. From 2002 to 30/11/2015, where unemployment insurance started to apply, 6 million 234, 61 people were eligible for unemployment allowance, 4 million 261,48 people were eligible for unemployment allowance. Between 2002 and November 2015, a total of 10 billion, 429 million, 735, 177 dollars in unemployment allowance was paid. So, only 10.8 percent of the current fund's existence was used to suit its purpose. In Turkey, where unemployment has found double digits and is increasing, there is a huge fund of 81 billion, 678 million dollars, 791, 823 euros, still waiting to be used in line with its purpose. So, how did this save-up happen? In 13 years, entry into the fund has been a constant increase, while unemployment allowances have been extremely limited. The main reason for the openness between the raised premiums and the unemployment allowance for the unemployed is because it is difficult to enter the system as a right. Adding this to the low amount of payments made to those who benefit from the system and the shortness of the use period, the amount of funds and payments are greatly disproportionate. Another problem with this fund is that the benefits are very heavy, as well as that the real function of the Unemployment Insurance Fund has been used as a conditional debt source to cover public financing and budget deficits from the start rather than the problems stemming from unemployment. Article 53 of Law 4447 states: "This fund is outside the scope of the budget and there is no way to cut its revenues and no way to save income in the general budget." The AKP governments, however, have made changes in Law 5763, 5920 and 5921 in order to cover the gaps in the wrong economic policies, pave the way for saving revenues from three-quarters of the moisture revenues of the funds, which are a large part of its existence. So that, with these laws in effect, much more of the funds in the fund are being transferred from resources to unemployed to the budget has begun to be patched up. With respect to the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to ensure the use of more efficient, in line with its purpose. [[İzmir]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] 6) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Samsun]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] 12) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] 18) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] 22) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] 23) Bulent Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Tripoli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Thursday (August 18, 2016), there is no consensus among political party groups, so I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On June 30, 2016, it was proposed that the parliamentary research motion for terrorism should be read on Thursday (August 18, 2016) at the General Assembly (now) to investigate the financial activities of terrorist organisations in our country and to determine the measures needed to avoid financing of terrorism. In favour of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, Mr. Erkan Akçay, the Manisa MP, will speak first. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0045par0412	Mr. President, I have made a commitment as the National Movement Party Group to the establishment of a parliamentary research commission to investigate the financial activities of terrorist organisations in our country and determine the measures needed to be taken to prevent the financing of terrorism. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, our country faces the treacherous, low-life attacks of many terrorist organizations on every single day, and we continue to be shaken by these terrorist attacks morning and evening. What happened is an indication of public safety that it's getting worse every day. This morning at Elızığ, we gave martyrs in a bomb attack on the police department, and we have many wounded. Immediately, as the General Assembly began, we were shocked by the treacherous attacks again in Bitlis. Yesterday at Van, the terrorist group continued its terrible attacks again. The day before yesterday in Diyarbakır, you remember earlier, terrorist attacks in Istanbul, Ankara, which have led to many massacres continue. Adeta has become an area of attack between us and the outside of Turkey's terrorist organizations. This is a total attack on Turkey. This is a whole different kind of war. Of course, as the Republic of Turkey, we, the Turkish nation, have to fight against these attacks altogether. It can't be a battle, but it can't be a fight, it can't be a fight, it can't be a fight, it can't be a fight, it can't be a fight, it can't be a fight, it can't be a fight, it can't The point is, unfortunately, that's what it shows. A total of 1,180 soldiers, police officers, rangers and innocent citizens have lost their lives and died in terrorist attacks since July 20th. These are not numbers, these are fires that fall on each stove, and these are griefs that spread throughout Turkey, anxiety. The fight against terrorist organizations is, of course, a security issue, first of all, security. However, taking security measures alone, staying in a defensive position is not enough to prevent terrorism and fight terrorism. Terror is a swamp, with all its elements, you have to drain this swamp. Here, at this point, as we have expressed in this motion, the fight against the financing of terrorism is of great importance. Because one of the most important elements that feeds terrorism, terror organizations and terrorists is the financing of terrorism. One of the most important stages of the overall fight against terrorism is the financing of terrorist organisations that must be singled out of the Republic of Turkey and all institutions and succeed in the fight. If we don't drain this swamp, the destroyed flies will begin to find life again. Turkey has to see the fight at both the level of terrorism and the level of security, and at the financial level, in a multi-dimensional way. While our country struggles against terrorism and financing from regional to global with PKK, ا, ISIS and so on, Turkey is also the lead and main target in the fight against terrorist organisations in the Middle East and Europe. In the fight against terrorism, Turkey must be effective both in domestic policy and international policy. Dear MPs, today our country is experiencing one of its sharpest periods in fighting PKK and ISIS terror. In an environment caused by gaffe, dawdle and even betrayal, separatists, terrorists, traitors have been positioned, stored in the important positions of our cities and almost every major institution in the country, stored weapons and ammunition in our cities, piled bombs, and terrorists have gathered and committed acts of terrorism, as if it were empty. On the evening of July 15th, in a bloody coup attempt, the public institutions and the Republic of Turkey were under fire and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was bombed. Terrorist organisations have committed trafficking, extortion, theft, fraud, drug trafficking, and have collected tributes under the name "region" and provided financing under the name "result collection." I'd like to pass along an event to you, my dear friends, to show you the dimensions of the event. In a province of our Anatolian province, you know, the Finance Ministry declares the last week of February as a tax week, and in this case, tax offices, bookkeeping, especially in primary schools, give lectures to children to increase tax awareness, and perform various activities with them. During a conference like this, a tax expert asks children in elementary school: "What is the tax? I wonder who's going to tell it? It says, "What is the tax concept in the children's heads, to bring it out." Each child says something, makes a tax definition, but one child describes it as saying: "One uncle comes to our house one evening a month, and my father gives him money in an envelope, and gives him taxes. " Dear friends, in this Anatolian province, the PKK collects tributes under the name of the tax, buys from citizens in envelopes, and the innocent boy puts it in his head as a tax concept. So this is a very serious example of the scale of terrorism's funding. In other words, one of the PKK's most important livelihoods is that we are not particularly effective in smuggling and smuggling. If we access the Customs Department's data, of course, it's not idle, but it's not enough. This battle begins with border security. How secure are our borders? While the border of Iraq and Syria in the south has returned to its virtual inn, can we talk about the active struggle? Another issue is the fight against the financing of the terrorist organisation. After July 15th, one of the most important steps in the fight against the Fethullahist terrorist organization was the financial struggle. It's a matter that everyone now knows that...... is constructing a massive financial network terrorist organization. He set up a financial network of checks, bonds, cash, companies, brands, chain markets, schools, classrooms, etc., which he collected several businessmen from Anatolia, including rooms under the pressure of the neighborhood, and he called it "heimmet". There is no account, no transparency, no control, no account, no money collected, and financed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Within this network, for example, the subscription of the Zaman newspaper began to be a reference for tradesmen and merchants. As a result, a huge network of financial networks has been established with this network, and these networks must be completely destroyed. With these thoughts, I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0046par0427	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Ankara MP Murat Alparslan will speak first against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Alparslan.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0047par0431	Mr. President, I salute you with respect, with love. I have made a pledge on behalf of my party regarding the parliamentary research motion by the National Movement Party on the identification and obstruction of the funding of terrorism. Sometimes we experience our pain when words are meaningless in descriptions, when words are incompatible; we find it difficult to explain the pain of the inside, the tearing of our lungs. Maybe we're having one of those moments today. Yesterday, in Van, as of today, in Elazığ, Bitlis, unfortunately, we were killed by the attacks of the traitorous terrorist organization, and we have wounded. May God have mercy on our martyrs and quick healing for our wounded. Dear lawmakers, this country, this state, this nation is a great state, this nation is a noble nation, a glorious history, an ancient civilization, a rich culture, an ancient tradition of state and a grand idea of civilization. One nation, one nation, one flag, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation from history, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, one nation, Of course, this country, this country, this nation, may have dealt with many acts of treason, many terrorist attacks, but what happened on the night of July 15th and after may have been the saddest, the most tragic, the most treacherous, the most treacherous, the most violent. Praise be to God, both the attempted coup and the attempted invasion of our country are the rest of the country. It has been eliminated and ended because of the sincere, zealous, honorable stance of our beloved nation, who can say "Our country's future and occupation." But it seems that somehow the structures that use these terrorist organizations as pawns continue in our country's sovereignty, in different ways, perhaps in different ways, in different ways, in different ways, in different ways, in different ways, in different ways, in the ways, in the ways of our country's existence. Here we see and live under the most painful reality of terrorism, under the PKK, DEAŞ, ا, or a different name, but against our humanity, our nation. Hopefully, it's the most important task of this saintly nation to overcome them. We, the politicians and the nation, who, in some way after July 15th and later, managed to be one, despite all our differences, political tandems, and differences in view, and could in this sense say "national will" and show any reflex over national sovereignty that doesn't agree with any guardianship and responsibility, and we can't be honored. It is a fact that none of us are strong enough to say that all of us are strong. We all have to preserve this and fight this terror together with what we call this powerful nation. More and more, perhaps, by tightening our ranks, by arm in arm, by standing firm, I hope to preserve our government's presence and the back of our nation's nation. Because we know, and we believe that the blood on the flag is the land, the land that makes the flags, if anyone dies for it, is the country. Here's our moon star flag, watered with martyr blood, and, hopefully, will never come down from the heavens, and every inch of our country will be preserved by us as a land that has been watered by the blood of martyrs. In this sense, it's absolutely true that terrorism, the fight against terrorism, is also very important. Fighting not only with the armed elements of terror, but perhaps with the lifeblood that feeds them, with its finances, with its social size, with its cultural structure, and with its cultural structure -- as the senior speaker puts it -- will be serious and important steps related to the draining of this terror swamp. In this scope, perhaps, the 1960 Paris Convention, established in 1961, in the OECD, which was formed in 1989 by the Financial Action Task Force, which was the body of an OECD, has been introduced as a topic of international prevention of this financing, and in 1999, the United Nations established an international contract for financing terrorism, and we signed it as a country in 2001, and in 2002, we allowed it to be legalized in some way by accepting it in the Parliament. After that, especially in 2006, it was not known that the financing of terrorism was a crime, but it was also taken a serious step towards the legal basis of the fight on the subject, adding it to Article 8 of the Anti-Terror Law. In the end, all legal changes and studies have been made concerning the adoption of some of the principles of the United Nations Security Council into our national legislation, and there is a serious commitment to both the judiciary and the Economic Crimes Research Commission for all kinds of financing of terrorism, the eradication of all financial resources, the identification of everyone involved. Hopefully, as a result of this work, this country's independence, the unity and unity of our nation, whatever the name of the terror, this inhuman backstabbing, traitorous attack, has been taken a great deal of distance, it will be advanced, and terror will be overcome together. But the most important effort, the most important contribution, is the unity of our nation without hesitation. It's also a violation of our unity and unity by international organizations who use terrorism as a tool, as well as by playing against us and against our nation, against our nation, against our country. Without getting played, we have to fight a serious fight, a campaign, perhaps a new war of independence, by strengthening our unity, our brotherhood law, both inside and across the world, against traitors who are trying to fight against our country, our country, our nation, perhaps our country. It's already the night of July 15th, and then, perhaps, from the history of the Republic of Turkey, our nation has again taken possession of its own will, its own sovereignty as a founding power. We, as politicians and representatives of the nation, have to show a maximum sensitivity here to fulfill their demands, desires, and desires, by taking possession of their will as a place where sovereignty is represented. I especially want to thank each and every one of you for these compromiseful, sincere, well-intentioned approaches in the National Assembly, where the nation is somehow the subject of the nation and the nation is represented here from that day forward. And I especially want to thank you for the fact that the National Movement Party has always stood in the sincere and right place about terrorism, terrorism, the struggle of the state and our nation. The parliamentary research motion on this matter is part of the proposals that we've already implemented in our legislation, which, given the Parliament's working schedule, will shed light on the work done, but it also states that it's related to the ongoing procedures, and I salute you all with those feelings, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0048par0440	Thank you, Mr. Alparslan. In favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party, Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0049par0444	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. I will announce my opinion on behalf of my group that the National Movement Party has issued a parliamentary research motion to investigate the financial activities of terrorist organisations in our country and to determine the measures needed to be taken to prevent the financing of terrorism. But before that, there have been major casualties of terrorist organizations lately. Today we have martyrs in Elazig and Bitlis, many wounded. I pray to our martyrs, to God's mercy, to his kinsmen, to our wounded, and to not repeat them. Terror is created by weapons, my dear friends, but terror is created by weapons, and there's financing behind terrorism, money is not terrorism without money, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be. There's a very important connection between money and terrorism. There's almost no terrorist organization in the world without money. Terrorist organisations receive help from large intelligence agencies in particular, and over the course of time, they make these benefits -- financial aid, financial aid -- regular, especially in legal areas, into money and use them in the field of terrorism. Their success depends on their continued income in finance. For him, it takes a lot of attention. The funding foot of terrorism is essential to draining its source. We -- you all know -- we don't have a very good geopolitics about this, about terrorism, unfortunately. We're troubled, surrounded by terrorist organizations, maybe terror organizations and terrorists, unfortunately, we have problems. But we're not very good at fighting terrorism either, I'm afraid. Now, look, my dear friend from power has just spoken, but I would also like to be given some information, and I would like to be given this information by the government. For example, we took it out in 6415, 2013, 2013, three years ago. For the past three years, look, in accordance with this law, can the government provide any information about how many concepts such as the freezing of assets, the financing of terrorism, have been identified? No. There's no government. He can't give that kind of information. Because this law came out, it was used politically, and it was thrown out as it was. That means nothing's been done about it. Is there anything the government can tell us about this? I'd like Mr. Alparslan to brief him on this, but unfortunately, he hasn't received any information, because I'm sure the government doesn't take these matters seriously, because unfortunately the government is not taking these issues seriously because there is no serious work being done because he's unfortunately exploiting terrorism, he's exploiting it internationally, he's using it for his politics. Thus, most of the demands we make regarding terrorism are not met internationally, very few are met, not taken seriously. Is there such an understanding of government, such a sense of government? We need you, us, all of us, to be briefed on these matters by the power, to be told what's being done. We've passed this law, and it's a very important law, but look, what's been done about the law in three years? Nothing. That's not gonna happen. You can't fight terrorism that way. My Group Deputy Director, Mr. Engin Altay, has just told me that the government is not taking terrorism seriously, that Turkey is not giving information to the Grand National Assembly. Look, there's a political party group coming in, and they want it investigated, and there's no government, there's no information, we're talking to ourselves. We need information, statistics, numbers... we're all against terrorism, there's no one here who's not against terrorism. But these are things that need to be discussed seriously. Can we have a different view of terrorism? Can we have a different view of Turkey? We all think the same way. But we sit down, we show the numbers, the works, the government's actions, we talk to them or against them. But I'm afraid the government, for once, can't stoop down and give information about these matters, nor does it himself, or does it have enough willpower. So that's the problem. There's no way to figure that out. My dear friends, I've just said that there's an international dimension, a very important dimension because terrorist organizations, yes, they must have a financial power behind them, but they need international support to create that financial power. Unfortunately, the terrorist organizations in Turkey also receive that support. There should be some serious work to be done on these matters as well. But unfortunately, in this area, the government doesn't do the serious work they need to do, and it's not missing, and it's not being taken seriously, and as I just said -- I have the old statistics -- the latest situation is out of the question, but 90 percent of the cases we're asking for internationally, are being rejected, not taken seriously. As in the last request we made from America, we do not make these demands with serious documents, we do not fulfill them. Look, our Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek, in 2015... there was a law on the financing of terrorism number 6415 in 2013 that I just mentioned, and I'll tell you again, we took it out in 2013. Mr. Mehmet Lightning, at the time, I remember, he was sitting here on behalf of the government, defending this matter. 2015 says: "We need to deal effectively with the financing of black money and terrorism. " He says again that we need to fight effectively. Well, we have to, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, of course we have to. What law did you want, and what law didn't come up? What support was not given to the Ministry of Interior, Police Headquarters, intelligence agencies on this matter? Which equipment, which staff, which staff were not given support, was denied by the Turkish Grand National Assembly? What support did this country, this nation spare? Why don't we deal effectively with the financing of black money and terrorism? That means we don't. Other than that, my dear friends, last week, you know, on August 3rd, we passed a bag of laws 6736 from this General Assembly. In the 7th article of this article, there is a clause under the title "Information of some beings into the national economy." It's basically black currency, this famous substance. Look, his (6) joke is that no investigation, investigation, or prosecution can be done or fined on those who take advantage of the provision of material, and the legal representatives of them, just because this process was done, and because of this process, there is no way of doing any sort of tax review and tax history. Now, is there such a law in a country where terrorism is so important, so troubled? We don't know where the money came from, we don't know who it came from, we don't know who it came from. Here, again, the money isn't being recorded, it's not being registered on behalf of a company, it's not being registered, it's not being recorded. And then once you get into the bank system, three days later, two days later, one day later, the next day you can get it out. Is that an arrangement? After that, we'll fight terrorism, we'll fight terrorism... How will this work? Aren't these the things that need to be taken seriously? How can we fight this if we neglect them? Mr. Alparslan just told me that Turkey is concerned about the Financial Action Force, because we don't do the tasks, we don't do the tasks that we need to do, and we're stuck. This, as I have just mentioned, is not yet published in the Official Gazette, the 7th article in which the bag of legislation and relevant from the General Assembly has been issued. This should not be published; Turkey will put Turkey into great straits; Turkey will now face great difficulties with international action force and international institutions. We don't pay attention to them, and then we have martyrs here, here, in Elazýg, and then we have wounded. We're sitting here, we're trying to evaluate this, but there's no government, there's no numbers, there's no construction, we're just talking to ourselves as a way of talking. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0050par0457	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. The nationalist Movement Party will finally speak in İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynar, against the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0051par0461	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I must tell you that as of yesterday morning in Van, as well as in Bitlis, the traitor, who died in those vile acts of terror, I ask God to have mercy on every one of our dear citizens, whose place will be paradise, and our nation's head. We have wounded yesterday and today, I pray God to heal all of our wounded. Whatever we can do to get out of this terror plague, we're going to do what needs to be done, as well as the Fethullahist terrorist organization, especially in this period of time, but with unity and unity, we're going to get out of here, all of us, together, hopefully. In the meantime, I'd like to first express a few sentences about July 15th. The July 15 coup attempt, which we really showed to the world at this time, as the Turkish nation, as the national will, was really a very important picture of our unity and brotherhood. Thank God that the citizens of our Gazi Parliament, who were with our MPs, who then shielded the tanks with their bodies and then died with their lives at the expense of bullets, gave a very important message to both the domestic and outside world for days and 27 days with the sign of our esteemed President. But today, our struggle is not only against the Fethullahist terrorist group, but also against the DAEŞ and the PKK, one and the same. We need to be united and united against all terrorist organizations. While we were fighting, while we were putting up this finance, which Mr. Akçay had just said a very beautiful sentence, expressing his proposal, he said that our struggle would be united and total. July 15th was the best answer to this total struggle, to the national will. Yes, there are laws made. There are also laws that Mr. Kusoglu has expressed as the spokesman for the CHP, which we've all made together, which we've passed about the fight against terrorism's finances. This Parliament, which at times makes the law practical, has brought its responsibility for this motion as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to a certain point by signing it together. Of course, there's a lot to be done, and of course there's a lot to be said after today, but most importantly, the 15th of July is now an age. Yes, July 15th is a myth, and we have to consider the steps that we're going to take in any way before and after, and as the ruling party and as the opposition parties, we have to look at it another way because our nation, our saint nation, has broken this game, has broken this game. This game will not only be a valid game for Turkey, it will be ruined; it will be a game in Syria, and what happened in Africa is a game called the upper mind or structure. Really, it is necessary to take steps in this time to think of them as one. So we have to look at it, look at it, look at it together. So he gained national will. When we say, we have to consider another process of one and the unity of this national will, along with our laws, with our actions. Look, we just got hurt in Elazıg and Bitlis again today. Why is the PKK doing this today? Why is the PKK taking these lives, with this terror on the stand yesterday, while someone else is still able to present the terrorist statement from here? While the wound hasn't dried yet, even the House has its own wound, in this bomb-throwing structure, while this structure is going on yesterday, I've got goose bumps, listening to that speech on this stand, and I still believe that our greatest weapon, our most valuable asset today, is prayer, unity, and brotherhood. Because the world follows this; what does the state of the Republic of Turkey do; the world follows its steep march and success as well as its epic march on July 15th, as well as its geography. Why? Ibn Haldun (Ibn Haldun) has a very beautiful sentence, and in many of my speeches, I never forget when we do both our professional and political work; he says: "Geography is a destiny." Indeed, it is a precious thing that shows the best story of the fate of the geography of Turkey, why it lives this fate, how, with what arguments. That's why I care about this motion. I care about this motion from the National Movement Party, which Mr. Akçay has pointed out in detail, but as he said, I want to underline the value of the total struggle. Because that's the only way we can succeed, but we can carry on the message of that precious national will victory we gave the world on July 15th, but if we can heal our wounds together, it can succeed. I underlined this carefully, but on the one hand, there's the agenda of the House, there's a study that we've started on Tuesday in Parliament studies, we've started negotiations with Bill 411, and we've come to the 13th article of this legal work, including the support of investments in the project and the decision-making of other laws. So, in order for these talks to continue, with these feelings and thoughts, we say no to this motion, but we wish to continue the legal work that the Assembly has started as of Tuesday, to your appreciation, and to the compliments of the General Assembly, I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0052par0471	Thank you. I'm going to put the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0053par0475	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit01spe0052par0476	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Konca, Mr. Sancar, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Güççıer, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Başaran, Mr. Doğan, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Akdoğan, Mr. Taşdeman, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Botan. I'll give you three minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0052par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 127th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Before the nationalist Action Group's proposal was voted, the roll call was not enough. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I will submit the National Movement Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Thursday (18/8/2016), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 16 August 2016, Diyarbakır MP Group Deputy Chair Çağlar Demirel gave 2665 rows no. After the declaration issued on January 11, 2016, which was issued with the title "We will not be a party to this crime," it has been suggested that several academics be read in the same session of the session Thursday (18/8/2016) to be submitted to the information of the Parliament's research motion, which has been submitted to the Parliament for investigation of dismissal, suspension, judicial and administrative investigations and arrest practices. The first speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party's group proposal is Mardin MP Mithat Sancar. Here you go, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0054par0025	Mr. President, there was a statement issued on January 11, 2016 by the Academics for Peace initiative, which was closely monitored by the public, published under the title "We will not be a party to this crime." Then the process of criminalizing those who signed this declaration began. Investigations have been launched against a number of academics who support the initiative of Academics for Peace and sign the declaration, disciplinary procedures have been carried out at universities, and some academics have been tried to prosecute. Many academics who have already signed this declaration have been suspended. For example, 17 academics were suspended at Van Centennial University, and then 37 other universities, for example, were laid off, 588 people were indicted, 516 were subjected to disciplinary investigation. Again, it's public knowledge, and there was a warrant for the arrest of all four professors. These transactions had stopped for some time, and after the July 15 coup attempt, the proceedings began to take place on academics who were again part of the Academics for Peace Group. The coup attempt on July 15th, of course, has to be put on the table in many ways, and one dimension of this is public liquidation. We have already stated that it is a right, a legitimate procedure to proceed directly to the coup, to plan the coup, to investigate disciplinary action of public officials who participate in the coup, directly, directly supporting the coup. However, what needs to be noticed here is objectiveness, fairness, neutrality. Indeed, it can be done about those who are directly involved in the organisation that directly supports this coup attempt, and are directly involved in its organisation, and it must be done in an objective process. However, as we have often warned, unfortunately, the government and many public agencies have not observed these measures. The knowledge that many people who are not involved in the coup were also victimized during the process is announced daily from various tools of public opinion. The Academics for Peace are at the head of groups that have been victimized in this way, my friends. If I were to make the examples that I've just counted concrete after July 15th, for example, my sample of Van Centennial University was on July 20th. On July 21st, the academics received a notice and were suspended after an investigation into a claim. Again, there has recently been a similar procedure at Eskişehir Anadolu University, where the suspension of 21 academics has been carried out. Two academics have been suspended at Hakkari University again. Two professors were also terminated at Mersin University. Finally, two academics from Gazi University Faculty of Communication were suspended and three academics from Sivas Cumhuriyet University on August 11, 2016. Now, these people had nothing to do with the coup attempt, not only do they have colleagues, but they're the rectories that conduct this process, but you, the MPs sitting here, know very well. If by using the coup attempt as an excuse, you are also going to eliminate people who don't work for you or who have opinions that you don't like in public, you're going to add new injuries to the major injury caused by the coup attempt. We've already been saying, what the coupgers really wanted to do was suppress, purge everything they didn't like; suspend democracy, stop freedoms and increase pressure. Now, if the same method is applied here, for this reason, or rather as an excuse to fight a coup, then a situation is created that means to maintain the mindset of the coup. Impacts can't only be explained by physical events, they're also a matter of mentalism. The mentality of coupism -- which I just summed up -- is to invade the political field, create a single society, create an authoritarian system, and destroy freedoms as best they can, as best they can. It is unacceptable for those involved in the Academics for Peace initiative to be purged, knowing that the coup attempt was an opportunity. In fact, in the present state of emergency, this process, which is already being used as an opportunity, will create serious challenges in the future - new challenges, crises, perhaps public administration, and a measure of chaos in society. Look, investigations into academics who belong to the Academics for Peace initiative have been suspended for a while, but then it has been stopped. After seven months and eight months, these academics are now being suspended on the basis of a state of emergency regime. So, it was okay for them to stay in public for seven months, but seven months later, now they're in trouble? On top of that, the demand of all these academics was a liberal Turkey, freedom at the academy, democracy at Turkey. They called for peace, exactly what the coupgers didn't want. What did the coupgers want? It was to suspend democracy, of course, and besides, to deepen social polarization, to create conditions for civil war, if possible. Against that, the opposite is that democracy needs to be defended, it needs to defend freedoms, it needs to eliminate the ground where the coupgers are fed, the environment where those eager for a coup wait for an opportunity. Otherwise, in the test of sincerity in combating the coup, the entire public administration would have failed in the first place. When an opportunism is created, when such environments are used as an opportunity, it hurts those who want to use it most. We've said a lot about the organization here. Let me just say again: yes, there is no need to do what is necessary to reveal who is responsible. Who has played a decisive role in putting this organization in such a strong position in public? What political decisions created the impact environment? A unanimous decision was made to form a commission with the joint signatures of four parties in parliament to investigate them, but as far as I know, the AKP can't start working on this commission because it hasn't reported members yet. Does AKP have any concern about covering anything up? Does he have a fear that the truth will come out? Does responsibility lie within the party, the tops of the party, and its rulers in the past and the present? We expect clear answers to these questions, friends, and we want to see that you are sincere in fighting the coup. We're sincere; we're willing to do anything that needs to be done within the framework of democracy, freedom, the state of law. With these feelings, I salute you with love.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0055par0037	Thank you, Mr. Sancar. People's Democratic Party will first speak against the group's proposal, Çürum MP Lütfiye İlsen Ceritoğlu Kurt. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0056par0041	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge against the People's Democratic Party proposal, and I salute you with respect and love. First of all, I ask God's mercy on our martyrs in Bitlis and Elazig, and for the immediate healing of the wounded. We all feel sorry for them, they're our children. Just as we've all been one body together against the coup on July 15th, we'll all be together for the rest of our lives. The land is ours, this land is ours, these children, these martyrs are ours. We're still working on this minor. May God not change our union, and let our children have a good day. Our young men claimed their homeland on July 15th. Common sense wins. On that day, with his men and his women, his children, everyone showed that he was in Turkey and that he had taken care of Turkey. Thank you very much, everyone. I wish you success in our work, and I salute you with respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0057par0047	Thank you, Mr. Ceritoglu Kurt. In favour of the group proposal of Peoples' Democratic Party, Eskişehir MP Gaye Beceer will finally speak. Here you go, Mr. Niceer.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0058par0051	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today in Bitlis, Elazığ, we have martyrs again, we have wounded again, but the duty of the High Assembly is not only to curse terror from this stand, but only to offer condolences. It is our duty to address the problem of terrorism under the roof of this House. Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, our chairman today, said: "What did you want and we weren't with you?" Let's all do the act of ending terror together. The Commission for Research on the Impact has been decided to set up under the roof of this House. The Justice and Development Party has identified members of the three parties in parliament, but has not found a member of the Commission among the current MPs. Let's stop cursing, let's go to action, let's stop being sad, let's stop crying, let's go to action. On January 11, 2016, the Academics Association for Peace signed the declaration under which they would not be a party to this crime. What happened? Mr. President, government officials, university rectors have declared these academics terrorist supporters, traitors, openly targeted. Dear lawmakers, expressing concerns about violence is not synonymous with supporting terrorism. By the way, a great man said: "You are my enemy or mine." What else did he say: "The professor before you, the professor, or whatever it is, doesn't make anyone enlightened." These are dark people.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0059par0057	He's right.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0058par0058	What else did he say: dark, tangerine, illustrators. Dear MPs, the European Convention on Human Rights states that if there is no freedom of expression in a country, you cannot speak of a free country or democracy. Again, there is freedom of conviction, freedom of knowledge and conviction, freedom of knowledge and conviction within the same contract. In case you don't know, I'd like to repeat from here: freedom to criticize the government is also within that scope. On January 15, 2016, I would like to share with you one more time the declaration of the Republican People's Party party assembly. What did we say: "We condemn all kinds of terrors, but without it we are condemned, cursed." We admit that terrorism is a crime of humanity. But freedom of expression is one of the essential principles of democracy. If there is no call for violence, if there is no call for violence, we support freedom of expression. Rectors living more royally than kings have opened investigations for these academics, we've had layoffs, and measures have been imposed. On the 15th of July, we were confronted by the coup attempt by the terrorist organization, which was named after you, called the Fethullah Gulen congregation, in which you called it, in the name of our Lord, Fethullah Hodja, and in the name of our Lord, and in this day, we were all confronted, and thankfully today this coup attempt was prevented. The coup attempt or the coup attempt by a terrorist organization has been avoided. You've taken civilian and military measures, you're taking them. Instead of running the House, you're doing these things outside the House. So, I'm asking you: has Turkey's politics been stable in the process? Were they able to soften Turkey's politics? And I ask you again: has there been a decrease in violence in Turkey's politics? I'll leave you with the answers. Let's get to today. Following the July 15 coup attempt, the State of Emergency was quickly declared. A Deputy Prime Minister said: "With the declaration of the State of Emergency, we are resealing the European Convention on Human Rights. " " (The other said this, a Deputy Prime Minister said this in front of the media, and indeed freedom of expression, academic freedom has been quickly and again put on the shelf. Of course, Turkey is going through a special process. Of course, it is correct to take extraordinary measures during a special process, but we are passing through days when freedom of expression and thought is crushed and trampled, and the pressures are increasing. Remember the coup d'état on September 12, 1980. You weren't the victims of those days, the victims of those days were the Republican People's Party sitting at this time again. The greatest goal of September 12th was to destroy freedom of expression at universities, to build the culture of the biat permanently. What happened? They didn't make it. Dear lawmakers, if universities can't raise their voices against political pressures, they'll be pulling their own strings. I'm not just speaking to you through this bench, I'm speaking to the university presidents. The times of oppression are temporary, and this period will pass, and power will change, but dishonor will remain.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0060par0064	Give me a date.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0058par0065	Dear friends, the academics who watch us at the beginning of the screen, university rectors, let go of the pulse, and do what a scientist should do, whatever suits a scientist. Know that independent and democratic academic understanding will continue honorably, no matter what. Dear friends, in order to speak of democracy in a country, to say that we are democcrats in a country, those who go up to the square and scream for democracy must also be democrats. Where there are no Democrats, there is no democracy. There is no mention of democracy in the country where scientists, artists, the press are silenced. Lawless investigations, detentions, suspensions at the Academy must end immediately and immediately. Dear lawmakers, you've stood in the squares for nearly a month on democracy, you've been sleepless, let's see how democratic you are. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0061par0070	This country belongs to all of us.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0062par0071	Thank you, Mr. Niceer. Peoples' Democratic Party will finally speak against the group's proposal, İstanbul MP Halis Dalklıc. Here you are, Mr. Dalkilic.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0063par0075	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. As I pray for God's mercy to our wounded, as I pray for God's mercy on our fallen martyrs today and yesterday's attack on Bitlis, Elazig, and Elazig. When I read Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) group proposal and listened to the HDP MP, I wanted the minister to curse this cursed terror and those who did it at the beginning of his speech; it was very important. Now, there is a motion that some academics have signed a statement in January 2016 and that they have been wronged, as well as the necessary investigations against them. Let's take a look at what this nation's security forces are up against in 2016. In January 2016, we need to know that there is no way to describe signing a declaration accusing security forces, state, government, as academics, as intellectuals, in the fight against a PKK terror organization that defied the state, defied the nation, even slaughtered civilians without blinking. Was there a PKK sentence in that statement that day, a sentence that cursed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), a sentence that cursed terrorism? No. When we read that statement, we're talking about a statement that directly accuses the security forces, the struggling government, the institutions of the state, and from here supports terrorism as well. Those who support this declaration, who support such declarations on that day and today, will surely have to follow and investigate accordingly. Or did these academics get up and issue a scientific statement? It's not. What they published was clear and clear, a statement supporting the actions of a low terrorist organization that coveted the unity of this nation, and we will not be disturbed by what is being done about it.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0064par0081	Enlightenment is a different thing. You don't know what it's like to be enlightened.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0063par0082	Today, look, civilians are being murdered again in the east, southeast. Look, July 15th, we call it "multiple." July 15th was not only an AK PARTY; it was a low attempt to aim at the unity of 79 million citizens of this country, including CHP, MHP, HDP; it was a low siege, a siege of imperialism. Come fight it, give it a shoulder. Let us serve the values of this nation, the unity of this nation, the unity of this nation. I thank the leaders of the opposition party, the lawmakers, every member of parliament who has conducted the fight for custody of this great nation, and it will continue. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I remind you once again that I am against the HDP group proposal. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0065par0086	Thank you, Mr. Dalkulic.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0065par0088	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0089	In his speech, Mr. Orator, we are fully aware that this statement to our group and to the academics who speak for us on behalf of the group...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0067par0090	You're the one who suggested it. Talk about what?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0065par0091	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0092	So, he gave a speech that despised the HDP, the motion that we gave, that nullified this motion, and there was a direct assault on our group. We're going to have a request to talk about it.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0068par0093	Mr. President, it's just criticism, no teasing.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0065par0094	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0095	No criticism, Mayor. Let me make it very clear that the HDP has made the declaration of these academics, that we have submitted a motion to investigate...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0069par0096	No, I told the academics. I said, I don't mean you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0065par0097	Look, Mr. Ironel, I listened really well.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0098	Both Mithat Hoxha and Mithat Hoxha have expressed the person of Mithat Hoxha's teacher, and has not given any reprimands or curses here, he also said.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0065par0099	He didn't say "the preacher."
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0070par0100	I said he should have.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0101	No, he didn't. He did.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0065par0102	He didn't say anything, he said anything that spoke before me; it's one.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0103	He said he's from the HDP. No, he said "HDP."
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0065par0104	No, he didn't.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0105	I took notes. President...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0065par0106	Mr. Demirel, I understand your request. If you'll excuse me, I'll summarize my approach.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0107	If you want me to finish, Mayor, I'll finish.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0065par0108	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0109	President, in our previous demands, let's look at the reports. You said, you looked at the reports, and we were right because in this case...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0065par0110	No, I didn't say you were right, we didn't have that conversation.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0111	...we listened and took notes. I mean, who does the preacher speak for? He speaks for the HDP Group. If he says hapip, it's the same if he says............... and he says............................ and he says...................................................... You know, I don't know what difference it makes. It's our research proposal, and the speaker is our orator, and we're the HDP Group, so there's no question of whether or not he's called it, but he's also expressed it as a HDPli, and I'm making it very clear.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0065par0113	So, let's say he said, let's say, what did he say, as the deputy of the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP)?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0114	When the speaker came here, he said, "If only he had cursed today's situation..."
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0065par0115	Now, look, Congressman...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0116	Wait a minute, wait a minute, President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0065par0117	But I've heard you say the same thing, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0118	But you're asking. You know, if it's not understood, we'll settle.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0065par0119	You're talking, I get it, I get your request, you finish it, and I'll give you my answer.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0120	Now, what I'm saying is that in Hatibin's speech, I'd like to express to our group that there is a direct challenge to Mithat Hoxha, who is speaking on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0071par0121	If I thank you, you'll be picking on me.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0066par0122	And we demand to speak of the rights of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0072par0123	Now, Mr. Ironel, look, I've heard the speaker well. He said to Mr. Sancar, "I wish he would have cursed the terrors - or the events of this context" without mentioning his name.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0073par0124	He's right, he's right.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0072par0125	It's not a tease.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0074par0126	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0072par0127	If you'll excuse me, let me do the talking. It's not a tease, it's one.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0075par0129	We can't act on someone else's words, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0072par0130	Look, Mr. Ironel, I listened to you. Second, your group took a stand against your proposal, speaker.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0075par0132	Okay.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0072par0133	It's his right to criticize. A group that he does not vote for or opposes may criticize his proposal or any suggestion. He would have to address you and your group with a direct insult and a non-clean language in order for you to take a stand here. There's no such thing here.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0076par0134	There's an accusation, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0072par0135	Let's not confuse criticism with insults, please.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0076par0136	Let me explain, there's an accusation, there's an accusation, Mr. President: I find it very meaningful to start talking without condemning terrorism.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0077par0138	Mr. President, they've already spoken for five minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0072par0139	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0076par0140	Wait a minute, be patient.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0072par0141	I'm listening, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0078par0142	President, then let's do this, where...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0076par0143	I want a minute's promise because I find it very meaningful.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0072par0144	Mr. Sancar, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0076par0145	It's like, there's a hint of support for terrorism, so there's a motive to prosecute. Let me tell you two minutes from there.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0072par0146	In that case, I'll give you my word on your position for an explanation. It's not an insult, you feel the need to explain.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0076par0147	No...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0072par0148	Please, come in, and I'll give you my word for a minute.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0076par0149	Okay.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0072par0150	Let's set the limits of insults and criticism well, lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0079par0151	Yeah, exactly.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0072par0152	Enter the system, Mr. Sancar, and I promise you. Of course, they're going to criticize a group of proposals he's against.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0080par0154	There's no problem with that, Mayor. Critics are normal, so it should be, but there's an accusation.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0072par0155	But no insult, Mr. Ironel. You know, I'm being sensitive about this, and I promise not to pick on you, but there's a limit.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0080par0156	But there's something incriminating about it.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0072par0157	Here you go, Mr. Sancar. Your time is one minute.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0081par0161	Now, Your Honor, he's using a method that we know very well: (First accuse others so that your responsibility may be covered.) However, in the name of the group, we have publicly and openly condemned these attacks that occurred today and before. And I feel like I don't have to keep repeating all this because there's a problem with repeating the actual responsibility. On the other hand, what he says about academics is considered the issue of academic freedom and freedom of expression in world standards. Let us ask: If you are sincere in supporting terrorism, investigate within yourself. How many of you today have helped what you call a bloody terrorist organization? Be sincere about this, and we'll take your word for it. No, you're not.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0082par0165	Thank you, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0083par0166	I don't agree to talk. This sentence doesn't speak here, look over there.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0081par0167	You first... look, you, you first...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0082par0171	I will submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0084par0174	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit02spe0082par0175	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Danış Beştaş, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Konca, Mr. Sancar, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Güydalı, Mr. Taşçıer, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Başaran, Mr. Capakli, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Tuğrul, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Akdoğan, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Yıldırım. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0082par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 127th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the People's Democratic Party Group, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Thursday (18/8/2016), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. İstanbul MP and Group Deputy President Engin Altay's motion for parliamentary research, which was issued on 18/8/2016 to investigate false policies that have resulted in the deaths of hundreds of our citizens and security personnel, is number 772. lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations and held in the same dated combination of its talks on Thursday (18/8/2016). In favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, Istanbul MP Mr. Engin Altay will speak first. Here you go, Mr. Altay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Before I go into the nature of the proposal, I find it helpful to underline one thing. There may be attempts at democracy in a country, there may be coup attempts, these are the nation's culture of democracy, the parliamentary democratic system sitting down, and we're all proud of it, just like on July 15th, but after these events, it's gained democracy. The government, who says, has to look at itself and the perception of democracy in the world. Of course, democracy won, and we don't say otherwise, but in one country, artists, journalists, academics are being thrown into prisons for reasons of water, and if power is being shoved into police stations, then democracy is not a winner, but a loser; democracy in that country is not a healthy and qualified democracy. I have no doubt that you, members of the ruling party, also desire a healthy and qualified democracy in Turkey, I hope, but I do hope that the artists, journalists, academics of the country, are, of course, guilty of a crime, but if they are thrown into prisons for water and for false reasons, for expressing their thoughts, then July 15th has achieved its goal in a way. Their goal was to destroy democracy, to shadow national will, to discredit Parliament. If a country's Parliament remains silent in the pressure against the country's artists, its journalists, its academics, then one or the other, July 15th has achieved its goal. So, I'm not making any more political distinctions in this matter -- a little higher sensitivity, Mr. Bostanci, is a necessity. It's also necessary to fulfill the trust that people have given us. Congressmans, Mr. President, it's 14 o'clock. We've opened the General Assembly at 00, and as far as I can see, no member of the government is yet in the General Assembly. For the past three or four days, Turkey has been facing a series of low, treacherous and extremely violent terrorist attacks in Van (in the last three days), Mardin (in Diyarbakır), Diyarbakır (in Diyarbakir), only today -- very fresh -- and Bitlis (in Bitlis). Congressmans, when you're sitting in these seats, don't you ask yourself, for God's sake -- don't you get me wrong, I'm telling all of us, including myself -- to criticize myself, we're not shelf diamonds here. There is no respect for the national will, nor for the national will, nor for the national will. If bombs explode every day in the cities of a country, some focus detonates these bombs, commands them, and as of this moment, if Turkey doesn't know what's going on, then the existence of that Assembly has no value. Yes, I beg you, members of the law, there is no government listening to us. We're all MPs. You went to this nation, your village, your town, your mountain, what did you say to these people? I'll tell you what you said. We will protect the people's property, lives, honor. You said, "We will build peace, prosperity and happiness of the nation." You said, "If anyone else says anything, let them come and say it." How can you be so insensitive about your promise to keep goods, lives, honor? I have never lived in the 14 years that I have been in this Parliament, and in the years that it was founded, I have never lived as someone who knew so much about it, so much about it, so much about it, so much about it, so much about it, the life of Turkish politics. For God's sake, lawmakers, whether you stand up, whether it's out of your mind or not, even if you vote for confidence, what kind of question can you ask the government? What's going on, brother? This nation, where is this country going? How can you not say it, MPs? I invite you on conscience, I invite you on self-defense. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I don't offer my condolences from the bench, but from my heart, I speak my intentions to the Lord of God. This is not the seat of condolence, brother. This is the seat of intervention in what is going on in this country. Shame on you, I'm ashamed, I swear to God, and shame on you. Let one man come out, and do you know how many lives we've lost in the attack on Elazig? Does anyone know how many lives have been lost in the attack on Bitlis? Isn't that a shame? Isn't that a sin? Okay, we've resisted the tank, the ball, so we've kept a piece of our dignity, but you're not simply watching what's going on in Turkey, in Turkey's most remote village, there's a bowl on the roof now, even in houses that were described as a very small, old house. So a citizen in the heart of Ankara and a citizen in the most remote village of Hakkari and Şırnak province, who you now wish to remove the province's status, are watching as well. You don't know much more than a poor farmer in a remote village, Uncle Mehmet the peasant, and that's not true; if this is Parliament, it's not true, Congressman. I don't want to do a political debate, a polemic. Sir, I don't mean today is the day. People are dead, there's bombs on top of each other, there's severe injuries, people are dying, look at the Great National Assembly of Turkey. So, personally, I consider this to be the greatest insult to the national will, that a member of the government should be present at the time of Parliament's opening, and that a member of the government should not be present at this point. (CHP cheers) I'm calling it. I don't know if you'd call it that. The government has no right. This is a cure. Of course, let's argue, let's argue, let's not be afraid of that. Of course, we want this spring weather to continue after July 15th, but there is a word that the late Ironel himself told me. Let me tell you a memory. On one visit, when I saw you arguing in Parliament, I was glad that democracy was working. These disputes are in Turkey's best interest if they are polite, moral and literary. Otherwise, let's sit down, the majority, the minority, that's it, that's it. Of course we're gonna argue. The argument we have had is for the benefit of the nation, for Turkey's future, for the argument we have had, for the use of the authority that the nation has given us, and for the loyalty of our oath on this stand. Mr. President, I'm asking you, please, you shouldn't stand by and watch this Parliament be scorned any longer. Today is the day to prove whether this Parliament really is a Parliament, or whether it is a lever in the custody of the executive body. I invite all respected members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to defend the honor of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I salute the General Assembly, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Altay. The Republican People's Party will speak first against the group's proposal, Mr. Kadir Koçdemir. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0085par0043	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. The poet, Put a knife in my shadow, My warm blood drips. Go into my country and take a look. No head, no head. Cry, let the water rise, Maybe the ship will survive. Mother, come from the mat, Pray for us, we are living one of the days he described as emi. Today we have martyrs in Elazig, Bitlis. Tonight, at some tables, some of them will be felt empty. For the rest of that sine of yours, life will seem empty, meaningless. In some homes today, when their daughter hears her father's voice, she will not be able to run to the door and greet him. In some houses today, some spouses will be stuck between the voice of the heart and the decency of where the martyr will be buried. When some of the buildings today are visited by ambulances -- in case something happens to them -- to deliver that sad news, some fathers will say, "We have put you out of your misery, we have put you through it." In some places today, preparations will be made to greet the prime minister and ministers, whose greatest service will be to go there immediately, and we have received them well, and we have sent them off without incident. There will be comfort. Today in the House, as we display the glass and plastic wall things that we tear down, these martyrs will not be left on the ground. In some houses today, the boys will look at the uniform and see that the uniform isn't worn tomorrow. Tomorrow morning, some wives won't hear of the rush of my being able to make the service for breakfast. In some houses, after a month, two months, three months, when the wives call out, Abraham.....,., Haydar........, he will remember that he has lost her, and when he calls her, there will be a void in his heart somewhere. Last time we read it, maybe some of the wedding invitations for this weekend will be torn up. But the House will work and this Parliament will boast of its work. The parliament will work, discuss additional indicators, interim clauses made permanent, severance pay, indicators to be put on severance pay for the job. Again, in this parliament, opposition lawmakers will laugh at each other and laugh at each other with the right to ask for a roll call from the Interior Charter, and the ruling MPs, as well as the authority to keep the House open until what time. Parliament will work, and if you don't like it, go away, brother. A person who still remembers not to pick up the garbage will discuss some of the cities and districts of the districts of the city with the desire to connect those provinces to the districts until yesterday. The Parliament will work, swear on the stand, as if it swore it would not do politics for four years, some of our friends -- I'm telling you for my own sake -- will have no function but to vote for who they come from here, who they belong to, the proposals, perhaps even later in the day, by mistake. By law, 30 martyrs, perhaps our ministers, when they're over 30 lives, will be gracious and come here, but the ruling group will interrupt his speech at least three times and congratulate him with long applause, as if he had achieved a great success. He will return to the ranks of the opposition and say, "We are doing our job very well, you do yours." And that will continue. Those who capitalize on fear will continue to evolve these processes to themselves. I read in Taha Akyol. After the Revolution of 1917, Lenin said: "Let them die because it will bring about the revolution." After the First Jahan War, Russia has hunger, poverty, epidemics, people are organizing relief organizations, and when asked what should we do, it brings about the revolution, he says. Indeed, polarization guarantees the ranks. Polarizing this country, making this country non-verbal, guarantees certain things. Because when the blood pressure goes up, the mind goes on vacation, and when the mind goes out, you put the masses with emotions and symbols somehow. The parliament will work, and the ruling party's group's vice presidents will think, "How can I lead 49.5 to this opposition??" How can one of the two parties stand up when we embrace one and one of them is fighting?" He will think, "Where can he justify my words to get one of my words? But this, my friends, is not going to change... when I was learning a foreign language, I realized that you can't translate some of the words in Turkish into European languages, into Western languages. For example, the word "voluntary" is one of them. In German, in English, let's have a conversation. You can't say. You can't translate a lot of sentences from the heart into the meaning of what we have. You can't translate a word like that. But after November 1st, I learned that some Western concepts and words can't be translated into today's Turkish. For example, political responsibility. What does that mean for our children? ▪ Weakness means weakness. For him, the men who are strong, the great leaders, no matter what happens, do not make a scene here. For example, withdrawing, resigning, resigning politically. Friends, this should not be confused: There are crimes described in the Turkish Penal Code, such as neglect of duty and abuse of duty. That's not what we're talking about. If we believe him, we'll go to the D.A.'s office and file charges. We say, as in the perfect responsibilities of the Law of Loans, do what is required of your political responsibility. This country wasn't well run, it's no longer run today. It's not possible for this to go on because we're not listening to each other, we're not negotiating here, and we don't see this problem here as a problem that puts out everyone's stove, burns everyone's hearts out, pays for the stoves. On the 15th of July, we had a vicious attempt. What we're talking about behind his back is, Aman, let's make law in a hurry. The issues that we've taken away from the holiday of the House are unfortunately not the things that are felt in the coffee, in the street, in the house today around those missing ones. With reality, when we cut ties with the country, politics will have no meaning. Let's not forget that terrorism is a means of communication. We've been given some messages with acts of terror, and since they've been in charge of us lately, the whole world has started talking to us like this. When they came on the mission, the internal and external enemies came to the same place today -- rightfully -- the AK PARTI authorities -- who were beating their rhetoric to the ground -- and the whole world was dealing with us. They brought their own failures to the point. Where are the heads of state who call our policies, my friend Berlusconi, my friend? These guys have changed? So, friends, come on, let's get this on the agenda, and let's do what the people give us. Let's at least say we didn't do anything; let's put in a will as Congress to do it, and then we couldn't do it if it happened. But there's nothing this House today -- what it did and what it couldn't -- does at the point of being a salve to the country's problems, I'm afraid. In that respect, I'd like to extend my regards to all of you so that this motion may contribute to the understanding of this problem.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0086par0060	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. In favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal, Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen will speak last. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0087par0064	Mr. President, most of all, our human values that we still haven't lost, our dignity that we haven't lost, our pride that we haven't finished, I think it forces us to be more responsible, more careful about what we've been through. None of us are worth the future, the global anxiety, the things we're trying to protect, the positions, the plans, the status, the tears of a child, not enough to bring back people who died at the age of five, who died at the age of 70. So, regardless of our differences in our approach to the issue we're discussing, which we're discussing, whatever our proposals, criticisms, we're going to have to come up with a desire to look for a solution, to find a solution, no matter what. Dear lawmakers, when you're in pain, when you're in pain, when you're in pain, when you're in pain, when you're in pain, you look for a way so that you don't get hurt again. It's a famous word, you know: it's a myth, and it doesn't get bitten twice in the same place. If we believe in peace, if we think we can live as a people, share this country together, we have to believe in the solution, we have to believe that we can come out of this vicious cycle, but we have to know the solution as much as we believe in it, we have to think about the solution, and we don't run away from responsibility. Dear lawmakers, peace is not just the silence of weapons, it's not just the stopping of blood, it's the stopping of tears. Of course, it is necessary, necessary, but not enough for peace. There are some times in the world, even in the history of Turkey where blood stops, there is no conflict, there is no chaos, and we don't describe them as peaceful times; we just see them as a precondition that can evolve into peace, lasting, real peace, acceptable peace, fair peace. This, of course, is very valuable, important, and even today Turkey has lost it. But, where should we start, what should we do, who has a responsibility to get out of our present era and to create a truly lasting peace, I think everyone has to reveal the stone at their feet, without doing anything to account for the fact that they know, no anxiety, no personal plan, has to reveal it with all its nudity. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, this is a subject of expertise. Our country has a master's degree in conflict resolutions in universities, just like in the world. How countries around the world have solved these problems, how they've ended the conflict, how they've established peace, how it's possible to achieve disarmament and democratization together, there's thesis on that, there's research on that. But, let's put aside the theoretical side, I know that there are a lot of names in each party that know how to solve this problem, both because of the experience of bureaucracy, and because they know directly the reality of the people. If we all put the facts that we all know about how this problem can't be solved, put them somewhere on our own party interests, put them out there, I believe we can develop common sense and common sense. Remember, two years ago, valuable lawmakers had a dialogue process and two parties were on the side of the process. In this process, critics were described as: "No matter what intention or where criticism was made, those who did not want the solution, those who did not want the solution, those who did not want the will to end the conflict. " Now let's ask the same question at the point where we're here: if the solution is really in the political institution, if the solution is possible with dialogue and we're looking for solutions without blaming each other, without blaming each other, under this roof, where we've all done wrong, where we've done wrong, where we've done wrong, where we've avoided doing it, where we have to face it. Four or five years ago, there were other accusations, other recipes, other fictions, other expectations. Just like a few days, even in the morning, after the action in Elazığ, even after the explosion in Elazıg, someone went up on the television screens to be an analysis, and ended up taking intel from there, so someone was saying in that process that we should believe in it, that we should be satisfied with it, that we should be more serious about it, that we should be able to concentrate on it, that it is actually being developed, just as it was, five years ago, that Ergenekon, Balyoz cases, that someone was saying, "It's the people responsible for this operation, it's the people who are responsible for it, it's the people who are responsible for this operation, it's the people who are responsible for this operation, it's the people who are responsible for it's for this operation, it's the people who are trying to make us, it, it's really difficult to build up. So, they're being arrested, they're being tried. The problem will already be solved. It means that our findings so far have not been correct, that it is not enough that the bombs are still exploding, that the children are still dying, that mothers and fathers are still forced to receive news of the death of their children. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course it's a difficult issue, but no matter what, we need to develop a belief that we can overcome this challenge first, we need to strengthen it. If hopelessness, pessimism surrounds us -- that this country is inevitably going to suffer a disaster -- maybe I've expressed it a few times before -- without realizing the danger of being dragged into a civil war worse than a coup -- without seeing it, without seeing it, without seeing it, if we've surrendered, there's no way to do it, if we've begun to see it as an inevitable situation, a fate, a makus fortune. But now, we have to face security policies and do a serious interrogation of how much this policy really serves security. There are two ways in the world about this -- I describe it very roughly -- valued MPs. One of these ways is what we know, what we hear, what we're used to, what it says to scrape the root. I mean, civil society, the union, the newspaper, the academy, the political party, the city, the congressman, everyone, put them in the same bag of violence and ended them all at once. There is a second method, which, on the contrary, will eliminate the conditions of violence as much as possible, end the causes of violence -- a desire to democratize, human rights, the rule of law, and actually end the environment of violence. Now, which one do we apply? What have we been trying for 30 years? From time to time, other quests, other debates, and how can there not be? Some of the alternative initiatives over which we are trying what is more obvious, and why should the children of this country, civil, innocent people of this country, have to pay the price of still trying to do the same thing, that we have not learned the way we've tried? Dear MPs, of course there's a lot to be said for the solution, but I'm just going to finish by making a few points. Instead of looking at the Constitution as such a work to be done, a job to be saved, we really have to see a new founding will, a new mind to live together. We have to look at Syria as a way for peace to prevail in the region, not just by conciliating with Assad. We have to embrace peace with the people we are forced to live with. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in order for this day's suffering to end, this place needs to take responsibility, and the House needs to run... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not supposed to save the situation, it's really a matter of initiative. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0088par0079	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Mr. Hasan Basri Kurt, MP of Samsun, will finally speak against the Republican People's Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0089par0083	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the group proposal the Republican People's Party has issued under the title of the policies behind the terrorist incidents. First, in the last 24 hours, I ask God's mercy to those who have been killed in separate explosions in Elazıg, Van and Bitlis, and to all those who have been injured, and to all their families, and I ask for patience. Indeed, on a day like this, at a time when terrorism was so violent, as a parliamentarian in a geography like this, or as a member of the ruling party, we have a very high sensitivity to these issues. I think all members of the National Assembly share the same sensitivity, with their opposition, with their power. Right now, Congress is continuing our work through a bag of laws on the incentive of investments. Yes, we have people who want to trip us up, who want to keep this country busy with terror swamps, but on the other hand, this country needs to move forward, this country needs to develop, the shackles on this country's foot, this terror chain, and for that, our Assembly will work. We will vote against this group proposal from the Republican People's Party. I'd like to express on behalf of our group that if we don't finish today, perhaps by tomorrow or Sunday, our Parliament will continue the current agenda. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0090par0090	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I will submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0091par0094	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0090par0095	We've got a roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Man, Mr. Kayşoglu, Mr. Akadil, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Akyıldı, Mr. Altay, Mr. Y Friend, Mr. Kara, Mr. Division, Mr. Turpcu, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Bozkurt, Mr. Bozkurtrak. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, we're moving on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We are continuing our talks with the Council of the Law on the Establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund in 1st ranked 1st and the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws on the Sales of Lands of Agricultures of the Treasury, as well as with the Council of the Plans and Budget Reports, of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi (19.4.2012). Commission? Here. Government? Here. In the past session, the 12th article in the first chapter of the Law Bill 411 was adopted according to the 91st Article of the Civil Code. Now, we're going to discuss the 13th article. There are three motions in Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the adoption of Article 13/571 of the Law Proposal for the Amendment of Laws and Laws on the Sales of Laws of Agriculture Lands of the Treasury (Also referred to 19/4/2012) and the Development of Forest Villages of Forests No. 6292, and the Advention of Forests Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of Treasures, as well as the assessment of Lands of Treasures. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Selin Sayek Böke Mehmet Beklıoğlu Bihlun Tamayligil Utku Çakırözer Zechariah Haziel The following has been the (1)th joke of Article No. 1211 of the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey Law, dated 13-14/1/1970. The bank can accept commercial bonds and certificates from banks under its own principles, provided it carries the minimum two signatures it considers acceptable. Trade bonds and all other issues that will be accepted in the Reesconta are identified by the Bank. The limits of loans, according to the highest limits and types of loans, are determined by the Bank by considering the principles of monetary policy. To this end, a special risk management unit is established in the bank. Congressmans, now that the motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13 of the Law Bill 411 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel Besime Konca Saadet Capable Abdullah Zeydan Ferhat Encu Nihat Akdoğan The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Haberal Erhan Usta Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0092par0139	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0090par0140	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr Mehmet Günal will speak first on the motions. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0093par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you and the great Turkish nation. Again, we continue on our classic bag of laws in closing weeks. Unfortunately, this has become a bad custom, not a simultaneous one, but let's just say, it's become a tradition. Here, of course, we said there were evaluations, urgent materials. For him, he also landed at the General Assembly, as a result of long discussions upstairs. We've isolated some of it, some of it, but there are still some troubling issues here. Of course, when our friends look at it like this, there's good stuff in it, it's about the Central Bank, it's like there's incentives, loans, but there's another dimension. It's already been organised about incentives, who has the incentives, what will be encouraged, and there's the clauses related to them, but it's about the stretching advance in the law, and the signatures of the bonds that can be accepted in real estate. When we asked our friends in the Commission, they said that some recent work could expand their scope, that new reescom loans could be given through the Central Bank channel. Of course, there are other substances, depending on that. When we talk about it all in total, it turns out that the Central Bank will go back to certain transactions, middle-term reescontract loans, and reescontract loans related to short-term exports. The central bank's function was established in 1990, after the decree 32, in 1989, in order to return the Central Bank to its original functions. I was at the Federal Reserve, working on this reescontigation at the fiscal lab the moment I started. So, the Development Bank was established by saying that it had lost its function and that the Central Bank should perform its primary functions on monetary policy by combining two banks -- State Industry and Labour Investment Bank. The central and long-term reescontract loans were given to the Development Bank, and the short-term export reescontract loans were given to Eximbank to do them. Now, there are these banks in the middle. If there is a glitch in the system, there may be a short, medium and long-term reescontract loans through the Development Bank and Eximbank, but when the Central Bank enters here again, it will create some problems in terms of money policy, because beyond that, if you remember, some legal arrangements were made after the 2001 work that was created, and the advance that the Central Bank had given to both the Treasury and the public institutions had been extended, and then removed. What was it made of? These arrangements were made so there would be no disruptive effects on the market, no problems in implementing monetary policy. Now, the implementations planned to be introduced with this arrangement, unfortunately, could cause some problems in terms of implementing monetary policy. Yes, let him be encouraged. He is already being given. That's what interested institutions do. And if there's a delay, we can figure it out inside that system. Otherwise, if we just fix it in the law and start it through banks and it's not good use, it'll lead to something else. For example, at the time they were made, some banks had a lot of businesses in certain sectors because of some loans that didn't come back because they didn't do very well. I mean, our friends who know, we had a bank that had a share called Taxi Hoteling, and a lot of his loans didn't come back, and it caused that kind of trouble. But, our concern is that right now, more money policy is going to cause some difficulties in implementing it, and the Central Bank is going to get away from its original functions; let's reduce inflation from one side, while interest issues are being discussed, we'd like to bring that to your attention. In this case, it may be possible for the Central Bank to get away from its original functions. The important thing is that the Central Bank transfers funds as its final lender to banks. He already has his ways, open market transactions, repo transactions, some things, the Central Bank has already funded banks through the liquidity window as the final lender, which he can do again when there's a problem with the system when he's stuck. Therefore, I think that this practice should be reviewed and not be caused by such a thing, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0094par0152	Thank you. On the same terms, Şırnak MP Aycan İrmez will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Irmez.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0095par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I find that the esteemed lawmakers have been given a say in the 13th article of the bill. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin, I'd like to begin today with the honor of the massacre of Şırnak on August 18th and August 18, 1992. On August 18, 1992, a great massacre was carried out by the state's civil servants in Şırnak on charges of landing in the city by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) (PKK) members -- in interviews conducted by the brigade commander of the period and then by then Governor Mustafa Malay (of the period) -- was found to be asparagases. Today, on August 18, 2016, the same atrocities, the same massacres, and even greater massacres were destroyed as a place and memory in Şırnak. In Şırnak, homes, workplaces, and all living areas have been destroyed under the curfew. I'm afraid the destruction of the world's wars is equivalent to the destruction of cities. Some of these were carried out by tanks and cannons, and some by means of the destruction of companies ordered by the state. Today, on the 157th day of Turkey's Republic of Turkey, Şırnak is still closed due to curfew from 81 districts of Turkey, and we are still unable to enter, still banned and still living in tents and huts far from a public home, unfortunately. We ask you, "Is a town bound to be forbidden for six months?" Can a people stay away from home for six months at this time? Do you know that people live in tents? As this is not enough, as you have left the people of Şırnak to face this persecution for months, this bag is also required to be removed from Şırnak and Hakkari province status, regardless of the 72nd article, unfortunately. This is a separate punishment policy against our people, and everyone is aware of it, especially the people of Şırnak. You know, in the fields, you'd say fucking democracy, democracy, and fucking national will, but even though the people of Şırnak want to stay in areas, in the streets, and in the actions they've made here, although they're screaming their demands, unfortunately, the government has not considered these demands in any way, and the matter concerning the removal of Şırnak from the province's status is in the bag bill. In the current case, the city centre of Şırnak has been flattened by order of the government. Thousands of people have died in Şırnak, Cizre and Silvio, people have been burned alive in basements, funerals have been left to rot on the floor for days, and thousands have been emigrated. These provinces that have been leveled under the command of generals who have been arrested for being coupters... and now the government, who has not given up on this understanding, has changed the legal status and increased the continuity of this invading and murderous mindset. Have you ever asked the people of Şırnak? Come on, even though the people's demands don't apply to you, have you ever asked the NGOs who were there? Unfortunately, such a bill is now set up, regardless of whether or not it is a province or whether it is converted into a district, whether it is intended for the future or not in any way for the future of the people there. All of this is a persecution, a brutality, and also a separate punishment policy. In view of all of this, the practices presented in Şırnak against law, morality and all human values must be terminated immediately. In power, you cannot decide the future of Şırnak and Hakkari. If you really want to consider the national will, you must take into account the demands of the People of Şırnak and Hakkari, based on their wishes, ideas, thoughts. We also know that -- we want to say it again -- it's a punishment policy. Since you can't get a deputy out of there, you want to remove Şırnak and Hakkari provinces from the province's status and put them in county status? You call it airade. Is not the will of the people of the West precious, and the will of the people of the West, and the will of the people of the West, precious to you when we come to the land of Kurdistan? We say all of this once again on behalf of our people, and we hope that you can return from this error and change the content of that substance and make your decisions accordingly.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0096par0167	Mr. İrmez, thank you, but I'd also like to emphasize again that there is no region in the borders of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0097par0169	It's the region, the President has expressed it.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0098par0170	Mr. President told me, it's in the records.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0097par0171	Even the president told me.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0099par0172	The President didn't say that, you all know that, and I know that very well. Open it again and read it, the President didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0100par0174	Kurdistan is a territory, understand that now!
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0099par0175	The President didn't say that. Open it and read it. I took good care of it because that's why I'm talking about it.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0100par0176	Look at the history books.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0101par0177	Won't this House be as free as the country?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0102par0178	Too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0103par0179	I will submit the same motions to your votes.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0104par0182	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit03spe0103par0183	We've got a roll call. Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Konca, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Toğurul, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Paylan, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Taşçüer, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Basalı, Mr. Sırığır, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Atash. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0103par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 127th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough attendance in the roll call during the voting of the two motions on the 13th Article of the Law Bill of 411. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. We'll resume the talks of Bill 411. The commission is here. The government is here. Members of parliament, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology Mr. Faruk Özlü has requested a statement. Here you go, Minister, two minutes. Mr. President, you know there have been terrorist incidents in three counties of our country today, and I'd like to share with you the latest information on these events. Today I'm going to share with you the latest information on the events of Elaziğ Central, Diyarbakır Bismil and Van Central. Sir, we have three dead police officers in Elazığ Center, 217 wounded; again, eight dead in Diyarbakır Bismil, 43 injured; three killed and 67 wounded in Van Central. That's the way it is. I'll buy it. Thank you. I'm reading the other motion on Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the amendment of the Law Bill to the Establishment of the Peace Fund in 411, and to change the Law on the Sales of Agriculture Lands that belong to the Treasury (2/571) in the following way of the Developments of Forest Villages No.19/4/2012 and of the Development of Forest Villages No. 6292 and the Value of Lands Out of the Forests in the Treasure Name of Treasures (2/571). With all due respect. The article (1) of Article 45 of the National Bank Law of the Republic of Turkey, dated 13-14/1/1970, has been changed in the following way. The bank can accept commercial bonds and certificates from banks under its own principles, provided it carries the minimum two signatures it considers acceptable. Trade bonds and all other issues that will be accepted in the Reesconta are identified by the Bank. The limits of loans, according to the highest limits and types of loans, are determined by the Bank by considering the principles of monetary policy. To this end, a special risk management unit is established in the bank. Zechariah Mazeel (Izmir) and his companions Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0105par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0103par0035	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Zechariah Haziel, MP of İzmir, will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Cleanel.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0106par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to discuss our motion on Article 13 of Law Bill 411 that the government and the Commission did not attend. But before I speak, I curse the attacks of Elazig, Bitlis, Van, and wish our martyrs mercy and health to the wounded. Dear friends, it breaks my heart to start every time I speak from this bench with a curse message. But I want to be able to say to our people, "Look, we're trying to build your future together with the laws that we've made, the shares that we've divided from national income. " Instead, we can show them the empty ranks of our Parliament; because there is no other option, we can demonstrate our efforts to prevent Parliament's work in primitive ways. We have to do some work that will give us hope for the future, some attitude. We have to restore the trust that has been lost at all levels of the administrative structure, which has been occupied by the terrorist organization for years. We can also do this by increasing accountability, by encouraging the superiority of transparency and law. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have no way of doing all this. We are busy in creating trust in society, and in filing the confidence of the House through its honorable and decisive struggle against coup attempts. We're trying to prevent the law from being passed every five minutes by polls, by asking for a sufficient number of decisions, by asking for an open vote; in fact, we're getting ridiculous, we're dissolving the council's reputation, we don't have the right. Opposition from parties who have fought democracy together opposes the 3-4 clauses of the proposed bill, which will increase social tension, undermine social sense of belonging, and are incompatible with rights.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0107par0044	Mr. President, there's a buzzing in the living room.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0108par0045	Here you go, Mr. Cleanel.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0106par0046	Mr. President, I hope you realize how hard it was for me to talk. Actually, I don't want to address it, I assure you, I don't want to talk about it, and it doesn't mean anything. But, at least, I demand that people maintain respect for each other here, and I don't want anything else, friends. [[A round of applause from CHP, HDP and MPP rows]] We object to 3-4 clauses here, which will increase social tension, damage social sense of belonging, incompatible with rights; 3-4 articles, 4 clauses in 80. In these 80 articles we absolutely support, we want to work to support them, we want to try, but the uncompromising attitude in this issue leads us to such a challenge as to the whole of the bill. No matter what happens, we will still do what we can, and we will try to contribute. Dear friends, the 13th article we have submitted is about the amendment of Article 45 of the Central Bank Law. This is one of the period and thresholds of the Turkish economy. In the 1970s and 1980s, go back twenty-five, twenty-six years before that, as if you had entered the time tunnel, you knew that at the time, banks had broken the bonds taken from their customers into reescontacts at the Central Bank. You remember that a large portion of the bonds that were given like this turned into a token of memory, that the mountain's stone was shown as collateral, and that the Central Bank was able to flood the economy with this kind of paper, emissions, and political loans. The results of all of this came back to us as a crisis: the main causes of the 1989 1994 crisis. The Central Bank then removed such reescontract loan applications in 1991.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0109par0051	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Cleanel.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0106par0052	In 1991, the Central Bank removed the application of reescontract loans, excluding Eximbank loans, and since then, these loans have not been used in Turkey, which are called political loans. This is the substance under which Turkey later developed fiscal discipline and especially the control of emissions. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you are now rescinding this clause. You're going to see this film that you've seen before, which you've seen twice very clearly, that you've seen the flu at other times, and you're going to see it one more time. We've seen this movie. This movie was a terrible movie, nothing like it, nothing like it. It was a plague that people couldn't control, a wave was coming at the Turkish community. We need to make some statements about this, and on this stand, we really need to tell you what kind of trouble we're going to face, but I don't want to push it any further because the president's one-minute deadline is over. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0110par0056	Thank you, Mr. Cleanel. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0111par0060	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0110par0061	There's a roll call before the vote. Mr. Gök, Mr. Tataylıgil, Mr. Pine, Mr. Torun, Mr. Akın, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Yım, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Akadım, Mr. Salici, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Man, Mr. Yfriend, Mr. Cleansel, Mr. Kuyoğlu. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. There is a motion that the 13th Amendment vote be carried out by a clear vote, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the opening vote of Article 13 of the Court of Law on Amendments to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws in accordance with the 411 Entity Fund of Turkey, which is currently in session. Coral Danış Beştaş, Adana? Here. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, İstanbul? Here. Çağlar Demirel, Diyarbakır? Here. Ertugrul Kürkçı, İzmir? Here. Nursel Aydoğan, Diyarbakır? Here. Mahmoud celadet bagpiper, Bitlis? Here. Saadet Capable, Batman? Here. Imam Taşçıer, Diyarbakır? Here. Mahmoud Toğrul, Gaziantep? Here. Selma River, Hakkari? Here. Müslüm Doğan, İzmir? Here. Persistent stone, Pain? Here. Abdullah Zeydan, Hakkari? Here. Kadir Yıldırım, Siirt...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0112par0087	I can handle it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0110par0088	Okay, here it is. Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman? Here. Garo Paylan, Istanbul? Here. Lesgin Botan, Van? Here. Aycan İrmez, Şırnak? Here. Ayþe Acar Başaran, Batman? Here. Besime Konca, Siirt? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the clear vote of Article 13 of the Law Bill 411: [[X]] Fehmi Cubic Ali Haydar Hakver Thus, the 13th article was accepted. Congressmans, in the wake of the July 15 coup attempt, we welcome the General Assembly of Pakistan's Senate and National Parliament MPs, who visited our country to demonstrate the solidarity of the Pakistani people and Parliament, on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Applause]] Congressmans, there are four motions on Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in the framework of Law Bill 411, which is currently in session, in the following way. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Mehmet Mush Hilmi Bilgin Murat Alparslan Mehmet Demir Fatih Şahin Hüsnüye Erdoğan 13th Article (a) of Higher Education Law No. 2547 (a), dated 14 ▪ 4/11/1981, has been changed in the following way. "a) At state universities, the chancellor will be recommended by the Board of Higher Education, appointed by the President of the three candidates who have served as professors for at least three years. If one of the proposed ones is not appointed in a month and no new candidates are shown within two weeks, the President will be appointed directly by the Board of Higher Education. The president's mandate is four years. Those who expire can be reassigned in the same way. However, at the same state university, there can be no more than two periods of rectory. The president, the university or the high-tech institute, represents his corporate personality. The appointment of the chancellor at universities established by the trustee committee on the appropriate opinion of the Higher Education Board. It can be terminated according to the procedure appointed by the president. Rectors are 67 years old. However, those appointed as rectors do not be searched until their term of office expires. The president selects three of the university's monthly professors to assist him in his work, which is limited to his term of duty. However, five vice-presidents can be elected by the rector in universities in central open school. Vice presidents are appointed by the chancellor. When the president's off duty, he leaves a deputy in charge. When the president's mission is more than two weeks away from his head, he informs the higher education board. If the mandate lasts more than six months, a new chancellor will be appointed. According to this clause, university rectors may be temporarily suspended or terminated by the President at the proposal of the Higher Education Council."
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0113par0131	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0110par0132	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0113par0133	Mr. President, what was just read out to us...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0110par0134	Congressman, I can't hear Mr. Sky. If you'd like, Mr. Sky, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0113par0136	Yes, sir, and I'd like to keep it open until my time alone is over.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0110par0137	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0113par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the motion of the Justice and Development Party, which we have had the opportunity to study as it has just been presented to us, is contrary to the Constitution. With this motion, a motion that has not been discussed in the Commission, has not been discussed in any way in the Commission, and has not been passed through the Commission, has been presented as a violation of a new clause here. This proposal, which is contrary to the Constitution, should not be processed. We recommend that this be removed from the process. If your president has the opposite opinion of this opinion, we'd like to open a formal debate.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0114par0141	Mr. Toğrul, do you have something to say?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0115par0142	Mr. President, on behalf of our group...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0114par0143	Wait a minute, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0115par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on behalf of our group, I would like to express our concerns about the same matter.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0114par0146	Wait a minute... [[The departure of the Pakistani Committee from the General Assembly Hall]] [[Applause]] I'm sorry, Mr. Toğrul, please.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0115par0150	Don't mention it. Mr. President, now, what we've been offered in the brochure is a provision that determines the duration of the vice presidents. But once again, it's been changed, differentiated, and it's also about the duration of the vice chancellors. But by making a final motion, we're discussing something completely new with the motion games, by bringing the appointment of the rectors here, a non-negotiable, unspoken clause in the Commission. Dear President, you know, since 6 November 1982, we all know what the CEC Act has already done to universities in this country. Now, there, we all know how the presidential elections have been made since then, and how they've actually been put into politics as a staffing tool. The material that is brought in now is a very clear statement of what the AKP understands from the national will, really, without any discussion, without the advice of the university community, without the proposal being taken. He removes the presidential elections from the interest of professors, professors, officers, employees -- completely, in the relevant area -- turning them into an appointment between the president's two lips. We think it would be a constitutional offense if such a radical change was committed without debate in the relevant commissions, without opinions from relevant locations, without the knowledge of what the relevant professors thought. We're expressing that this has to be withdrawn.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0116par0153	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about it? Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0117par0156	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I am truly amazed. When I read this motion, I say it's a mini coup attempt, I say it's an attempt to create an actual situation and when it's over, and I'm sorry to say it's even more, I'm sorry to say that we're dealing with a very serious political immorality; it's so clear. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] We have now established Mr. Prime Minister Diyarbakir Eyüdın Eyyubi University on 28 May, which has revealed that the university has been in search of the ecclesiastical chancellor instead of the university, and that it is currently in search of the YÖK, and that the current power has been established 14 percent of these Foundation universities, which have been appointed earlier, and that many of these individual, appointed rectors have been appointed, and that on 28 May, Mr. Diyarbakırn Eyübi has been appointed. May he be blessed. On July 28th, two months later, 14 universities were shut down with the decree of the law when he said, "Good luck." It turns out there's no lesson to be learned from what happened. So he's getting worse when he's getting better. So this July 15 coup attempt was never learned? How is that intelligence, logic, judgment, for God's sake? What are you going to choose according to? Anyway...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0116par0160	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0117par0161	There's no way to accept that, Mr. President. Aside from the fact that this was not in accordance with the Constitution, we had already criticised a bad situation in universities, which was an extremely troubled, inappropriate situation in the election of the rectory. But in this case, it's left to a completely arbitrary and personal savings. This is an application that will only take place in dictatorships, which is not acceptable. I call upon power to give up this motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0116par0163	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0118par0165	Mr. President, why don't you take a break and have the guys take a look?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0116par0166	Let's hear it for Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0119par0167	Mr. Naci, do you know anything about this?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0120par0168	Mr. President, what is being done here is an arrangement for the presidential election of the 2547 Higher Education Law. The Constitution is not against the Constitution. I've been a teacher for twenty-six years, and those who teach at the university know very well that there are many problems when the rectors are elected to work within the university. What's happening to you... [[CHP, HDP and MPP]] Will you not listen to God?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0121par0172	Congressmans, we're listening.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0120par0173	In the coming period, the rectors are almost as large in the distribution of assistant professorship, professorship staffs, meaning to resume their duties, and form staffs to support them.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0122par0174	Who's gonna deal now? President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0120par0175	They're also hostile to people who don't support themselves and who don't vote for themselves. All the academics here are witnesses to such events. I participated in studies related to the SEC Law. Former rectors of all the universities of Turkey, the rectors of the election, all expressed an opinion that the election was wrong and that the universities were destroyed. That's the way it is. After all, there's no outside, outside of the university, we're talking about an election. The SEC will nominate, and Mr. President will choose. That's all there is to it, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0123par0178	Thank you, too. I've heard enough. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0124par0180	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0125par0181	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0124par0182	Mr. President, I'd like to say a few words.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0125par0183	Mr. President, after July 15th, important work is being done in this House. I don't think such motions are necessary. If the ruling party is in the need to remove Turkey from a coup attempt that Turkey has encountered, we are in a process where we must conduct it in a very cool, calm manner. Such a motion is one of the substances in Turkey that will increase the tension of power-Muslims, which will cause our society to move away from the peaceful and cold environment that it expects. Now, I'm making you a suggestion, and I'm making a suggestion to our friends: please take a break, they'll argue for ten minutes, they'll decide to withdraw this clause. Otherwise, it is not possible to consider a proposal, which is completely unconstitutional and is presented in the form of a new clause, but can be discussed as a new clause. This leads us to a conflict. First, I expect you to take a break, and I expect the ruling party to have an internal debate; if they don't do that, they'll be pushing the constructive approaches that the opposition parties have shown in the future in Turkey's process, unfortunately, they'll be holding back. I give them a final warning: In front of you, as Speaker of Parliament, as a person in charge of Turkey's presence, as a person in charge of its quietness, consider this proposal and first take a break after taking a break, and if they are truly determined, we are determined to discuss it the way we do. A grave mistake is made, one mistake after another.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0126par0186	Now, members of the law...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0125par0187	Our duty is to protect the House from mistakes.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0126par0188	Mr. Sky, I understand your request. I've heard the demands and explanations of the People's Democratic Party, including the National Movement Party. And, of course, the group's vice president of the Justice and Development Party has an answer. But, as far as I'm concerned, there is no way that I, as a Deputy President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, will be able to remove the motion on my own initiative.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0127par0190	Constitution.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0126par0191	There's no motion anywhere in the charter...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0128par0192	He should come to the National Board of Education, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0126par0193	There's no such thing. If...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0129par0194	You're authorized to take a break.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0126par0195	Look, guys, give me a break.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0129par0196	I'm talking about your break.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0126par0197	Read it, then, and read it.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0130par0198	He's recommending a recess.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0126par0199	Please, I don't have that kind of authority, in style. Mr. Sky, you know that as well as I do.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0130par0200	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0131par0201	No one's asking you to take a break, Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0132par0202	Give 'em a break, let 'em take a look.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0133par0203	I can't remove every motion that is in accordance with the law, which is in accordance with the law; I can't remove it from this place by my initiative; there is no such practice in the Charter.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0131par0205	That's not a request, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0132par0206	Mr. President, let's take a break.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit04spe0133par0207	But I'm gonna take a 15-minute break to make this right, and I'm gonna call a meeting of the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit05spe0133par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 127th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit06spe0133par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 127th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0133par0001	I now open the Seventh Session of the 127th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The commission is here. The government is here. We were in the process of the amendment motions on Article 14 of the bill, and I said there were four motions on Article 14 of the 14th article.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0134par0005	Mr. President, we're withdrawing our motion.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0133par0007	Since Naci Bostancı and his friends' motions, which have just been read in Article 14 have been withdrawn, there are three motions on Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of assistance be changed in the form of being a helper, which is included in Article 14 of Law Bill 411. Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of the 411 Entity Fund and the Amendment of some Laws and Laws Acts under the Law and the amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi (Turkishman Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi) in the following way of the Developments of Forest Villages No.19.2012 and the Development of Forest Villages No. 6292 in the Treasure's Name of Forest Borders, as well as the Evaluation of Lands of Treasures (2/571). With respect. Mehmed Biklıoğlu Kadim Durmaz Utku Çakırözer Selin Sayek Bühlun Tamaygil The first sentence of Article 13 (a) of Article 2547, dated 14- 4/11/1981, has been changed as follows. In order to assist him in his studies, the president chooses three of the university's monthly professors to serve as vice-priests, as long as they are limited to their term as chancellor. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the Law Bill 411 be changed in the following manner. Çağlar Demirel Besime Konca Saadet Capable Nihat Akdoğan Ferhat Encu Mahmut Toğrul The first sentence of Article 13 (a) of Article 2547, dated 14- 4/11/1981, has been changed as follows. "In order to assist the president in his studies, he is elected by the university senates to be the most three vice presidents of the monthly professors. However, five vice presidents can be elected at universities in central open school. The mandate of vice presidents has been for three years. Ladies and gentlemen, has Mr. Aytuğ Horseman been withdrawn from the motion signed?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0135par0036	We're pulling the motion.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0133par0037	He backed off. Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı and his friends' motion to withdraw, Mr. Akchay?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0136par0039	We're withdrawing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0133par0040	He backed off. Then we have a motion. Does the Commission agree with the motion signed by Çağlar Demirel?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0137par0042	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0133par0043	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. On the motion, Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0138par0046	You didn't read the reason, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0133par0047	Did you shoot it, too?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0138par0048	No, no, we didn't.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0133par0049	Oh, you were going to give me a reason.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0138par0050	Well, you haven't read the matter.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0139par0051	We weren't called up, we weren't pulling back.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0133par0052	We read it, we read it all. Our process is correct.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0139par0053	We weren't called up.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0133par0054	Mr. Mahmut Toğrul will talk, okay?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0140par0055	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0133par0056	Deal.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0141par0057	Those who have gathered upstairs have withdrawn, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0142par0058	Mr. President, there's a crash, those who are called up...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0141par0059	Not you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0143par0060	Here you are, Mr. Toğrul, Deputy Gaziantep.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0144par0062	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, in fact, we had no objection to the original matter as a principle. The appointment of three vice presidents and its term of office were limited to the term of the chancellor, and we saw a positive principle. In fact, that's pretty much what the practice was. Although he is appointed for five years, the vice-prince himself, if he doesn't want to work together, the chancellor is resigning, but, dear friends, we hope that the AKP has made a last-minute suggestion that he will not come back. If there is a problem with presidential elections at universities, it should be discussed in public, universities and relevant organs, commissions, and such a change should come. The goal is to officially appoint a trustee to universities. We expect the AKP to show the same sensitivity in the matter of appointing trustees to municipalities we will discuss tomorrow. Again, we expect this sensitivity to the removal of Şırnak and Hakkari (Kakkari) from the province's status and bringing them to the province's status. It's a positive that the vice presidents are three. In fact, the legislator thought of his motive: Generally, there are three basic areas in universities: health, social and science. However, that rule is not observed in vice-principals. In fact, perhaps it should be recommended to bring about a change in this direction. Because I've been through this one-on-one. Look, the chancellor appointed by Mr. President at Dicle University in 2008 was a medic, and three of the three vice presidents were of medical origin. That's not gonna happen. Why not, my dear friends? At that time, when we said, let's get a nuclear magnetic resonance device to the Science Faculty of Dicle University. Let's say -- in all the universities where modern science is being built, in other parts, the nuclear magnetic resonance device is at least two or three -- because the vice president's assistants didn't understand the incident, they told us directly: How long will this device be able to finance itself? Dear friends, now, if there's going to be a change in science, in basic sciences, that change is not just going to change in that field. For example, the detection of nuclear magnetic resonance frequency was made by a physicist in 1951 by Bloch, but nuclear magnetic resonance is now being used in many areas, including chemistry, medicine, medicine. So you do a study that changes the course of science. So, if you're going to bring an arrangement to the vice president's office, make sure that this rule is followed. I mean, people who have the ability to address different areas, the ability to govern, the experience of the past, have to be vice presidents. Dear friends, as I said, this is extremely important. If we listen to each other's problems socially, if we just get rid of our prejudices, we can actually solve a lot of problems. Come to these municipalities with the trustee's bill, give it up. Let's show a similar sensitivity. The national will is the people who choose those municipalities. Let's not give credit to the people who chose those municipalities between the lips of a governor and a governor. Besides, if there's a crime to be committed, the mayors or a criminal has a way of punishing them as they are now. Therefore, appointing trustees to municipalities does not serve the peace of this country to reduce cities to borough status. Let four political parties be sensitive in this regard, just as they have been adapted in the election of the chancellor or in the appointment of the chancellor. We expect this from CHP, MPP, AKP. Let's go against the trustees' law together, and we'll withdraw it. This isn't 81, this is 83. Look, if we agree on this, we'll all have the pleasure of making the law together. So, I'm really waiting here for your sensitivity once again, and I wish you all the best in your work. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0145par0068	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0146par0072	We have a roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit07spe0145par0073	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, Mr. Kürkçı, Mr. Konca, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Sancar, Mr. Capakli, Mr. River, Mr. Irmez, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Botan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Atash. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0145par0001	I now open the Eighth Session of the 127th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call on the request was not enough before the amendment motion on Article 14 of his bill was voted. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We'll resume the talks of Bill 411. The commission is here. The government is here. Congressmans, I have just stated that Mustafa Elitaş and his friends have withdrawn the motion. The motion holders have changed their motion to repeat it, stating that the withdrawal of the city has been carried out. With regard to the inter-group consensual, I am taking into consideration the motion given by the same signees, not to be a precedent: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the framework of Article 14 of the current Law Bill 411 should be changed in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat "The first sentence in the third paragraph of Article 13 (a) of Article 2547, dated 14-4/11/1981, has been changed in the following way, and has been removed from the text "for five years" in paragraph four. In order to assist him in his studies, the president chooses three of the university's monthly professors as vice presidents, as long as they are limited to his term as chancellor. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0147par0027	We appreciate it with a positive opinion.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0145par0028	Government? We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The change in the first sentence of paragraph three of Article 13 (a) of Higher Education Law 2547 was intended to be resolved. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. There is a motion that the 14th Amendment vote be held in the form of an open vote, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 411th draft vote of Article 14 of the draft Law shall be held in the form of a clear vote on the establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund, which is currently in session. Coral Danış Beştaş, Adana? Here. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, İstanbul? Here. Çağlar Demirel, Diyarbakır? Here. Ertugrul Kürkçı, İzmir? Here. Nursel Aydoğan, Diyarbakır? Here. Imam Taşçıer, Diyarbakır? Here. Ayþe Acar Başaran, Batman? Here. Mahmoud celadet bagpiper, Bitlis? Here. Saadet Capable, Batman? Here. Cadri Yıldırım, Siirt?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0148par0047	I can't help it.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0145par0048	All right, we're in. Müslüm Doğan, İzmir? Here. Selma River, Hakkari? Here. Persistent stone, Pain? Here. Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman? Here. Abdullah Zeydan, Hakkari? Here. Garo Paylan, Istanbul? Here. Aycan İrmez, Şırnak? Here. Mahmoud Toğrul, Gaziantep? Here. Lesgin Botan, Van? Here. Besime Konca, Siirt? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The vote will be run by electronics. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the clear vote of Article 14 of Bill 411: [[x]] Ali Haydar Hakdi Fahmi Cubic Thus, the 14th amendment was adopted according to the motion adopted. There are three motions in Article 15 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the last sentence of the second sentence of the 411th article of the Common Law Bill, which is in the last sentence of the 15th Amendment, we ask that the declaration of the State University be changed to one of the other universities in the province of which the university has been closed, or to other universities in which the university has been closed, in the first sentence of its 9th joke, and that there is no higher education institution to be paid more than the sum of students who have been transferred to other universities who have been transferred to the university, or more than the sum of the sum of the sums of the university. Çağlar Demirel Abdullah Zeydan Nihat Akdoğan Besime Konca Ferhat Encu Saadet Capable Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the 411-trial Fund in Turkey, and the amendment to certain Laws and Laws of Laws and Laws and İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, dated 19/4/2012, and the support of the Development of Forest Villagers No. 6292, and the introduction of the Second Question to the Treasury's Outside of Forest Borders, and the proposal to change the Law on the Sale of Agriculture Lands of Treasures (2/571). With respect. Musa Pine Ancient Don't Stop Utku Cakırözer Bihlun Tamaylıgil Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Lale Karabık Selin Sayek Böke Kazim lion "A residence permit for the foundation institutes of higher education and founding institutes, which have been assigned to the foundation institutes of higher education, which have been determined by the audit report, which requires the removal of the permit to operate on the basis of the audits, is removed by the proposal of the Higher Education Board and by the decision of the Council of Ministers. This is reported to the Ministry of National Education by the Higher Education Board to ensure the removal of the institution of the relevant foundation's institution of higher education law. In this way, students registered at the foundation institutes of higher education who have been suspended have been transferred to garantor college or a state university to be determined by the Board of Higher Education. The findings of the audit report are also taken into account, and the property of the foundation institutes of higher education, which have been removed from operating permit, is liquidated according to the official liquidation provisions of the Turkish Civil Law, dated 22/11/2001 and 4721. The official liquidation process is initiated by the Higher Education Board. A representative of the Ministry of Finance and the Board of Higher Education is appointed as a liquidation officer. The liquidation costs are covered by the property of the liquidated foundation's higher education institution. The liquidation process is exempt from all taxes, pictures, and mortar. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 15 of the Law Bill 411 be removed from the draft text. Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Erkan Haberal Kadir Koçdemir Ruhi Ersoy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0149par0098	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0145par0099	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Ruhi Ersoy will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0150par0104	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. There was a lot of pain in our country today. First news of the explosion from Elazığ, followed by Van and Bitlis. Terror surrounds Turkey, blood and tears in the streets. Terrorists dressed in military suits, as well as those who did the July 15 coup, are being directed by the same centers... the rest of the Republic of Turkey's state, the future of the Turkish nation is under serious threat. The state of the Republic of Turkey has passed the State of Emergency laws as a countermeasure, fighting. The National Movement Party has established this framework and is approaching issues as a party that looks at its responsibilities from here. So, while these struggles are being fought, determination and determination wait for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the government and the state to do its dues -- the expectation at this point -- to go all the way through terrorism organizations -- without distinguishing one from the other. He is especially pleased that the climate of national unity and unity established in Turkey after the Yenikapi rally is reflected in parliament and politics. While this framework was being read in this way, it was a shock to bring the president to the opposition parties without being discussed in the lower commissions in any way, without being declared in any way. On top of this shocking effect, we would also like to express our satisfaction to see the government make a new move towards the common mind with the firm's firm's firm position and the other political opposition parties' positions. Dear MPs, there is a concept in the time philosophy of Hegel. The spirit of present time, the national unity, the unity and the determination to stand united against the focus of the Turkish nation and the Turkish state. In this regard, of course, democratic seizures, national will seizures are meaningful. But, if it stays only in the squares, if it doesn't reflect on Parliament and General Assembly and politics, then I have the power, and I know it, and I do what I want to do, and if it doesn't apply to a common and national mind, then there's a huge problem after that. This is the framework of the law amendment that determines the relationship between the foundation and the foundation colleges that we're talking about. The amendments must be made with a common mind, not with a higher court or any more legal violations, or the Millitarian Movement Party offers and recommends that changes be made in a whole form of the foundation universities and the foundation culture, not just by the experience of the law when an incident occurs. In this regard, it has given us hope that students in the closed foundation colleges of the Board of Higher Education have met with politicians who are concerned about their issues and held joint mental gatherings. As part of the joint mental gatherings established by the ECHR, the National Movement Party has made a serious contribution to them with our views and suggestions. We take a separate pleasure in this, and we stand by this compromise, which will continue until the end of the solution-sponsoring attitude. It reminds me that we, the National Movement Party and the ulterior motive, are pursuing our responsibilities to the fullest of our responsibilities, and I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0151par0110	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0152par0114	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0151par0115	We've got a roll call. Mr. Danış Beştaş, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Konca, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Küçüklı, Mr. Sancar, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Botan, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Atash, Mr. Özturkk. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the 411-trial Fund in Turkey, and the amendment to certain Laws and Laws of Laws and Laws and İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, dated 19/4/2012, and the support of the Development of Forest Villagers No. 6292, and the introduction of the Second Question to the Treasury's Outside of Forest Borders, and the proposal to change the Law on the Sale of Agriculture Lands of Treasures (2/571). With respect. Tulip Carabinieri (Bursa) and his friends "A residence permit for the foundation institutes of higher education and founding institutes, which have been assigned to the foundation institutes of higher education, which have been determined by the audit report, which requires the removal of the permit to operate on the basis of the audits, is removed by the proposal of the Higher Education Board and by the decision of the Council of Ministers. This is reported to the Ministry of National Education by the Higher Education Board to ensure the removal of the institution of the relevant foundation's institution of higher education law. In this way, students registered at the foundation institutes of higher education who have been suspended have been transferred to garantor college or a state university to be determined by the Board of Higher Education. The findings of the audit report are also taken into account, and the property of the foundation institutes of higher education, which have been removed from operating permit, is liquidated according to the official liquidation provisions of the Turkish Civil Law, dated 22/11/2001 and 4721. The official liquidation process is initiated by the Higher Education Board. A representative of the Ministry of Finance and the Board of Higher Education is appointed as a liquidation officer. The liquidation costs are covered by the property of the liquidated foundation's higher education institution. The liquidation process is exempt from all taxes, pictures, and mortar. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0153par0132	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0151par0133	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Tulip will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Carabinieri.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0154par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to talk to you about the motion made by the Republican People's Party Group on Article 15 of the Law Bill 411. I salute the Veteran Assembly. Yes, 15 foundation universities have been shut down after the July 15 coup attempt. 14 of these universities had students, and the total number of students was 65,216. These students were educated in 626 different programs, and one morning they woke up and their college closed. At these universities, 2,892 professors and 3,912 foreign professors were also in service from 122 countries. 2.892 lecturers were sentenced to a mistrial of the law, their work documents were terminated, their SEC ties were not cut, and social security opportunities remained, and their rights were not resolved. Now, there are three groups of victims: students at these foundation universities; professors and staff at these closing foundations; and the third group is not the foundation universities that are closed; but there are academics who are tried to be separated at other universities and are victims. Now, I'm about to give you their numbers. There have been three amendments for the victim students. It was said at first: "The coordinator in his province will go to college, and he will continue there." It was said: "He will go to places where he can enter according to his rank and preference manual." Of course, this revealed a victim, especially a material injury. Then again, a change of heart: they will train at the university where they are directed, or they will be referred to the university as the co-ordinator in the same province of private student status. Of course, by the way, there are eases of private student status, but there are other challenges, councillors. There's immunity, liability issues, there's 626 major science issues, there's initiative problems, there's the major branch, the major branch, how to transfer them, how to get their diplomas... these students watch every day, and when they get up in the morning, wondering what kind of life decision they're going to make about themselves today, and I want to say here: at the heart of all decisions that's been made, I want to rephrase once again the need to prevent the victims of students. Yes, 2.892 professors at the closing foundation universities were suspended under a decree of law, their employment papers are over, and they are now being held in a guilty position. Well, why aren't they being investigated for security, too? Those of them who are guilty and those who are not, must be separated. We know very well that there are people who go there because there are no staff. In fact, there are a lot of people who are going to pay a thousand lira more to pay the mortgage, and one of the victims said, "I'm unemployed now and I've applied to a new university, I've taken the exam, I've won the first one, but since I came from another college that closed down, the results have been canceled, and I can't get in there." So we say, let them have a study, and never let the age burn along with the dry; separate it, separate it correctly. Well, I said there's another group, not the universities that are closing now, but the academic and administrative staff at universities that are continuing their activities. Congressmans, 7,078 people -- 5,482 academic staff, 1,596 administrative staff -- have now been suspended and processed in all universities under the law. But no matter how many of them are guilty, if there's a healthy decomposition here, how reliable are those who make these lists, you have to think about them very carefully. An academic who came to me as a victim told me that he said that if I was accused of theft, I would feel the same shame as I am now. I mean, these people are victims. I think these divisions should be conducted in good health and returned to their duties as soon as possible, innocent people. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0155par0147	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0156par0151	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0155par0152	There's a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Alli, Mr. Türkmen, Mr. Bingöl, Mr. Karbık, Mr. Bektataşoglu, Mr. Altaca, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Akin, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Clean, Mr. Cleanl, Mr. Topal, Mr. Topal, Mr. Süyük, Mr. Kesici. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the last sentence of the second sentence of the 411th article of the Common Law Bill, which is in the last sentence of the 15th Amendment, we ask that the declaration of the State University be changed to one of the other universities in the province of which the university has been closed, or to other universities in which the university has been closed, in the first sentence of its 9th joke, and that there is no higher education institution to be paid more than the sum of students who have been transferred to other universities who have been transferred to the university, or more than the sum of the sum of the sums of the university. Coral Danış Beştaş (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0157par0166	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0155par0167	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. On the motion, the MP for Adana, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş, will speak. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0158par0172	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 15th amendment of the bill. In fact, agendas and developments are so fast that it is urgent to assess the environment that we live in. Really, after the July 15 coup attempt, we went through a very fast process. We're talking about a bill in which journalists can't follow news, human rights advocates can't determine the violations almost exactly, in which there are very severe human rights violations at detention centers, newspapers are closed, universities are closed, students are thrown out of universities -- just a limited number of examples -- and we're talking about a bill that is now offering trustees to local governments, which is actually destroying the fundamental institution of democracy. And as if that wasn't enough, colleges got a trustee proposal today, in the presidential election. Although the motion was withdrawn, we saw once again how far away the mindset that presented this motion was from democracy, how far away it was from the choice and the will of those who were given the will as a result of the election. Really, Mr. Bostanci -- I can't express how I feel when I listen to his body -- but he said that the presidential elections were a big problem. Well, then, any choice is a problem. So let's not make a general election, let's not make local elections, let's not make a presidential election; let's set up a king; let's appoint a king, and let's have him run all over the place, appoint trustees to universities, appoint trustees to municipalities; there's no need to elect 550 people to parliament; let's set up a government here in the form of appointment. I mean, can that happen? The current proposal for local governments is literally a coup to the nation, as said by the ruling party and other national consensus components. It's what we call a blow to the people's will, a blow to the people's will. After July 15th, those who make such a great deal of literature about the unity of the nation, about the people, about the will, who shout so much today, are trying to pass this bag of legislation by midnight in order to strike the will of the nation. Why? To ward off a coup attempt? For more democracy? For more rights? For more freedom? No. None of them are. We're dealing with more centrifugal, monopoly management, institutionalization of dictatorship, the construction of fascism that puts people aside, and therefore, really, the impact of July 15 should not end. It was a coup attempt, yes; it was terrible, yes, but what we're going through right now is that the suggestions on this bag bill are just as terrible, and it's just as bad. Yes, there's one issue that's on the agenda, but the House doesn't talk about: for two days, the whole world has been discussing the closure of Özgür Gündem. Even the US Secretary of State has made a statement today, but apart from us, we don't hear much noise about the closure of Özgür Gündem, the freedom of the press. Özgür Gündem newspaper was shut down because it was really a journalist. 22 journalists were released today, but three journalists are still inside. İnan Kızılkaya, Aslı Erdoğan and Bili Kaya are still in custody and Aslı Erdoğan is currently under treatment at the hospital. Dear friends, Özgür Gündem newspaper is a newspaper that has been through a lot since the 1990s, has been bombed centrally, has given over 70 cases of press casualties. This newspaper is a newspaper that lives on with the tooth and nail of a certain oppressed people. This newspaper is a newspaper whose reporters were detained in the 1990s and sacrificed to the unsubs. Do not compare this paper with other newspapers and journalists with other journalists. They never leave their newspapers and facts in your power, leaving you alone. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Professor John Keane, a political scientist, says: "Some people don't want things to be published in some places. That's what we call news. It says that the news reflects the truth, and I thank you all.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0159par0183	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0160par0186	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0159par0187	I will submit the motion to your votes. We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Konca, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Toğurul, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Sancar, Mr. Şaşlı, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Botan, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Atash. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Congressmans, there is a request for an open vote on the 15th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 411th Amendment to the Constitution of Turkey's Entity Fund, as well as to the open vote of the 15th Amendment, shall be held in the form of an open vote. Coral Danış Beştaş, Adana? Here. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, İstanbul? Here. Çağlar Demirel, Diyarbakır? Here. Ertugrul Kürkçı, İzmir? Here. Nursel Aydoğan, Diyarbakır? Here. Imam Taşçıer, Diyarbakır? Here. Celadet Bagpipe, Bitlis? Here. Saadet Capable, Batman? Here. Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman? Here. Müslüm Doğan, İzmir? Here. Mahmoud Toğrul, Gaziantep? Here. Persistent stone, Pain? Here. Selma River, Hakkari? Here. Garo Paylan, Istanbul? Here. Abdullah Zeydan, Hakkari? Here. Cadri Yıldırım, Siirt? Here. Lesgin Botan, Van? Here. Aycan İrmez, Şırnak? Ayþe Acar Başaran, Batman? Here. Besime Konca, Siirt? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the clear vote of Article 15 of the Law Bill 411: [[X]] Fehmi Cubic Ali Haydar Hakver Thus the 15th article was accepted. Congressmans, a motion has been made regarding the new clause violation, which contains a change in the Law on Higher Education Institutions No. 2809. This motion will be adopted so that the proposed bill will be closely linked to the agreed clauses and not set a precedent, given the inter-group consensus. In this frame, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission joins the motion with the majority of its members, the 21 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the following item to be added after Article 15 of the Law Bill 411 which is currently in session. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mustafa Elitaş Engin Altay Bulent Turan Erkan Akçay Mustafa Şentop İlknur İnceöz Mehmet Naci Bostancı ADDE 16-28/3/1983 and 2809 added the following clause to the Law on Higher Education Institutions. EK MADDE 167- A foundation university was founded under the name of İstanbul Kent University, which has a public legal personality, in accordance with the provisions of Higher Education Foundation 2547 of Higher Education. This university is based on the presidency; A) From the Faculty of Human and Social Sciences, B) From the School of Art and Design, C) From the Faculty of Health Sciences, ) From Health College, d) From civilian aviation high school, e) Health Services University of applied sciences, f) From vocational university of applied sciences, G) From the Institute of Social Sciences, From the Institute of Health Sciences, It's happening." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0161par0258	There's only a majority of our commission, and we agree with the majority of our members.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0159par0259	Since the commission has only participated in the motion so often, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Anyone? No. Question-answer? No. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In this way, the 16th article is subject to new matter. In order not to cause any confusion, we continue negotiations on the existing clauses of the Commission text. Article numbers will be identified during the writing of the law. Congratulations on our new college. There are three motions in Article 16 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of the Peace Fund in Turkey and for the Amendment in some Laws and Laws and the amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi in 19,04.2012 to the Development of Forest Villages No. 6292 to the Treasury's Outside of Forest Borders, and the amendment of the Law on the Sales of Agriculture Lands of Treasury (2/571) in the following way. Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Erkan Aydın Bihlun Tamaylıgil MADDE 16-21/7/1983 and its fourth joke has been removed from the "protection district boards" in the first part of Article 65 of Article 2863 of the Law on Protection of Culture and Nature, and its fourth joke has been changed as follows. "Unregistered culture and nature assets and their protection zones (except in the areas of which they have been banned from construction (except in the areas of the area of which they have been imposed), non-licensed renovations and repairs under Article 21 of Building Law 3194, maintenance and repairs under their cultural assets, protection, enforcement and control offices established in the establishment of authorities, protection, practice and audit offices are punished by the district managers for three months or years without permission from the district managers of the environment and urbanism, for natural status sites." Congressmans, now that the motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that Article 16 of the Law Bill 411 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel Abdullah Zeydan Nihat Akdoğan Besime Konca Saadet Skilled Ferhat Encu The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Erkan Haberal Kadir Koçdemir Ankara Bursa Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0162par0288	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0159par0289	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr Mehmet Günal will speak first on the motions. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0163par0294	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you and the great Turkish nation. Dear friends, these 16 and the following items are being changed here in the Law on the Protection of Culture and Nature. It's about punishments, but no matter how many times we read the matter up there, what it says over and over and over again, it's not understood from the wordless of the substance or from the current change. We have friends from the law, let's read it again. Now, I'm going to tell you what can come out of this, but first, it says, "Look, the immovable culture and nature assets and its assets and its property in the area of the building area of 3194 are not subject to the 21st Article of the Building Law under which the building law includes the 21st Amendment, the renovations and repairs that are not subject to the registration, the protection, the practice and control office established in places, from the authorities, protection boards and control offices in places that have not been established; and from the nature assets and natural status areas, those who have done or did not have permission from the municipal institutions of the districts of nature and urbanism. Now, there's a penalty above and below the substance. Your friends...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0164par0298	Go ahead, Mr. Mehmet, go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0163par0299	No, he's at work, so he'll punish you with a fine. He says.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0164par0300	"Or" he says.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0163par0301	That's not really what I'm going to say, Mr. Tanal. In order to correct a previous mistake... the reason our friends make decisions is because the Supreme Court is making decisions... and they can't tell if we should give them too much or not. That was the reason. In order to correct the wrong done, they now said: "We are making such a correction in the law. We are making it that with new writing, in the matter above, precious friends, instead of two to five years in prison and 5,000 working days, it is possible for them to be sentenced to six months to three years in prison or criminal fines. So instead of giving a lot, giving less... when you mix up the boards, we do the opposite. The difference between the judge's initiative and... look, I'll tell you the difference between the fines: one sentence is two to five years in prison, and five to the day of work, and the other sentence is six to three years in prison; and the fine and prison are more severe. If you call it the unresolved place, the judge will be able to give you a lower sentence by interpretation, so that you understand -- instead of the district council, I'll call it the upper board. So when we're talking about fixing it, we're making an arrangement that could lead to new abuses. And the bottom line is, friends, where did they come from? The Justice and Development Party governments, unfortunately, have changed the protection boards for these natural and cultural assets, established a lot of councils from the county departments. Earlier, there were rooms, engineers, architects, teachers in charge, academics. And as long as we didn't get permission from around here, this time, it just got really hard to get out of the way. So when we're trying to fix these things, we're breaking them again from the other side. If this clause passes through like this -- I mean, in the Supreme Court's decisions, because it leads to different consequences in the courts -- unfortunately, it will lead to much greater turmoil in the future. There, at least, it will be able to cause a number of people to slip away by being given a lower level of punishment here instead of by mistake decisions. In this context, this material needs to be rearranged, corrected. We suggested that it be removed because it could lead to wrong practices. Hopefully, that'll be the end of it, because there's a series of studies of field management that take away the authority of municipalities of nature and cultural assets in all the materials behind it, and we see that they're all coming back one after another. So we have to give up these and actually turn these boards back to its original elements, make them really natural, to protect their cultural assets, to prevent them from being looted. Therefore, he says punishments should be deterrent, and I pay respects.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0165par0306	Thank you, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0166par0307	Mr. President, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0165par0308	Don't mention it. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0166par0310	As I go through your honor's speeches, the 16th Amendment... our current Constitution seeks a proportional majority system in the regulations concerning amnesty. There's been some sort of covert pardon for the structures of culture and nature beings. This is contrary to the Constitution, which also ensures the preservation of the assets and values of history, culture, and nature under Article 63 of the Constitution. The 16th article, which is available, is contrary to Article 63 of the Constitution. In the name of the Speaker of Parliament, as acting Speaker of Parliament, I would like to say that this is contrary to the Constitutional Court... that this clause must be withdrawn. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say this in a more specific, more informative way on the stand.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0165par0312	Mr. Tanal, I understand your request, but I am not at this time authorized to remove any motion on this basis as the president of the hearing on the charge of violation of the Constitution. We're about to present it to the General Assembly, and the General Assembly has the authority to acknowledge it, accept it or deny it.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0166par0313	Of course, I said that to get him on the record, but to make sure that you're aware of your witness.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0165par0314	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0166par0315	But this is a violation of the Constitution, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0165par0316	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Osman Baydemir will speak on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0167par0320	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, I assure you, if the atmosphere were appropriate, I would taunt Mr. Tanal. And I would offer you an opportunity, an opportunity, to at least have a two-minute word with him because of that bullying. Give me your blessing, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0168par0322	So you've made a glorious alliance.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0169par0323	I understood that, Mr. Baydemir, I understood your request.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0167par0324	Mr. President, there's no doubt that when we look at the substance in the first place, it may seem innocent, that when we look at the substance in the first place, it may even seem to be a preventive measure. However, when we consider the matter, I think that we should consider the articles 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20, and especially when we read the 20th article, we see together what the meaning of this is, what the outcome will be. When we read Article 20, Mr. President, the postings of the presidents, members of the advisory board, and members of the board of co-ordination and audits, will be terminated. In place of those whose mission has ended, they will be assigned to the Ministry within six months at the latest, as well as the attempt to remove the fragments of the decentralisation structure, which is the main purpose of certain substances in the bag law. Today, in cities, cities, cities, towns, cultural heritage, nature assets, or the protection of all natural sites, protection, development, development, renovations, overall authority is being taken from local authorities, the Ministry, the Ministry. I'd like to go back to the point where the guy before me said, well, there were protection boards before, and they were densely made up of academics, and those protection boards were removed. As a prevention mechanism, area administrations have formed in cities, and those area governments are currently engaged in the intensive development of municipalities. As of today, in the event of law enforcement of this clause and the following substances, the entire area administrations will be abolished, and the ruling party, the relevant ministry, will have the opportunity to destroy whatever it wants -- as clearly as it wants. What kind of understanding is that, in a way, a perception, a form of governance that has come to work by choice, a policy of elimination, a perspective? And with that respect, I believe that we should not consider this clause independently. I believe the essence should be one. If we really believe in democracy in this country, if we believe in the election, if we believe in the will of the people, then we must fulfill it. Being 49.5% of the vote does not give you the right to remove a will that has received 50, 55, 60 votes elsewhere; it is a paradox. No, if the national sovereignty... which is the cradle of democracy, local governments, municipalities, is almost the center of will. If we respect that will, then come -- we've had an example -- we've just passed a motion with almost a unanimous vote, a motion has just been pulled back -- let's separate this bag of legislation from all these substances that will eliminate democracy, reveal new conflict areas, and all the remaining materials -- if necessary -- will be unanimous if sovereignty is a unconditional nation. No, if you're saying it's the AKP's unconditionally. I don't think it's necessary, let's get out of the opposition parties, you can get out of the law any way you want. Vesselam.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0170par0331	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0171par0332	Mr. President, the speaker said in his speech, "I need to be bullied so that I can speak, so that the voters can see me...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0170par0334	No, no, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0172par0335	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0170par0336	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0172par0337	He picked on me so hard, so strong.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0173par0338	But, what more could it be? I mean, I don't know if I need to pick on you so I can...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0170par0339	I mean, I wish I could tease him. He said Mr. Tanal, I wish I could. He said, please.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0173par0340	I mean, I'm asking you, this is really unacceptable in this respect.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0170par0341	Mr. Tanal didn't tease you, he wished he had a say in the matter. So I said I understood Mr. Tanal. Please, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0174par0342	Don't discredit your good intentions.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0173par0343	Mr. President, I mean, you don't need someone else to pick on you to get a congressman to talk.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0170par0344	He doesn't have to. You know, you asked for a promise, I listened to you, I gave you my word. I heard you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0173par0345	But I didn't ask for words for a tea conversation, so I made a promise to say it was against the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0170par0346	Well, okay, you told me, and I told you my opinion against you, and I told you if there was anything I could or couldn't do, it's over, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0175par0347	Heavy teasing, heavy.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0173par0348	My dear President, look, the sentence is very heavy. I'm reading it exactly, and it says, "I need to be teased so that you can talk. I don't need someone to tease me for me to talk."
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0170par0349	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0173par0350	That makes me disreputable in the eyes of the voter.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0170par0351	Mr. Tanal, no teasing.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0173par0352	I want word for him according to Article 69.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0170par0353	Mr. Tanal, no teasing. Please, I'm begging you, I won't give you my word.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0173par0354	Sir, then I'd like to discuss the procedure...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit08spe0170par0355	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit09spe0170par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 127th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature on the 16th Amendment...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit09spe0176par0005	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit09spe0170par0006	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Şaşlı, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Konca, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Botan, Mr. Özturk. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to introduce and propose the amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund 411 and the Amendment of some Law and Legislative Laws and the amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi (Turkishman Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi) to 194.4.4.2012 Historical and 6292 Forest People's Development in the Treasure Name of the Forest Borders, as well as the amendment of the Law on the Sales of Agriculture Lands of Treasury (2/571) in the following way. With respect. Gulay Backup (Istanbul) and friends MADDE 16-21/7/1983, and its fourth joke, which was removed from the district boards in the first joke of Article 65 of the Law on Protection of Culture and Nature, 2863, has been changed as follows. In addition to their unmovable cultural and nature assets and their protection zones (except in the area of which they have been banned from building sites (except in the area of which they have been banned), repairs and repairs that are not subject to the 21st Article of the Building Law of 3194, maintenance and repairs that are not subject to the 21st Amendment, protection, enforcement and control offices are punished by authorities, protection and enforcement and audit offices from the regional boards in places that have not been established; and by nature's assets and natural sites, by those who have done or did not have done it in violation of the nature and urban administrations, or by six months in prison. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit09spe0177par0023	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit09spe0170par0024	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. İstanbul MP Gülay Basci will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit09spe0178par0029	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute the High Council. The AKP, which did not limit its looting and rant policies, unfortunately managed to convert the coup into a ranta and sped up looting and looting. This bag of legislation is actually a looting bill. First of all, the 16th article is contrary to the Constitution, a covert pardon. In natural sites, building in areas of historical and cultural moving sites has been sentenced from six months to three years in prison, while a fine has been imposed on this area, or a fine of legal fine. This arrangement is far from protected. These areas are also protected by international contracts and our country has responsibilities in international contracts, and Turkey has fallen far below the third world countries in terms of the environmental grade on international platforms. Soon our environmental grade will reach zero. How are you going to protect historical, cultural areas, natural sites when these areas can't be protected, even with the existing laws being built in the middle of the Hall of Rumeli, which is not an act of prayer? Now, there's a regulation, and that's a very dangerous regulation, and in this regulation, the first-degree natural status area is added to the second and third-degree sites, along with sustainable protection areas. For example, the Ayder plateau and Longgöl are in this situation. What do you plan to do with this law, now that there is a construction that has reached its bed capacity at around 2,800, on this plateau, at Ayder Yayla? We know exactly what your goal is. It's been about 17 years since the August 17th earthquake, and you, your ministers, came out and we made a double road with the earthquake money. Which school became safe for the earthquake today, which public structure, which housing became safe for the earthquake? The AKP government has always been deceived and deceived, saying, "What are we to be deceived?" Once again, we would like to warn you that the development of countries is measured not by the plundering, the AVM constructions, but by the protection areas, by the value of history, by the culture, by the arts. You mentioned a culture of compromise after the July 15 coup. Now, we want to ask you, is it your understanding of compromise to pretend to be democratic until you have the power to destroy those other than yourself? What they cannot invade with armies, my dear, invades our country through foreign capital, direct or domestic puppets in Turkey. Doesn't that hurt your national feelings a little bit? Companies to do the nature-damaged projects will be tax-free, contractors will be tax-free, the state will cover the cost of the firms, including labor fees; administrative permits, licenses, CED reports will not be required, and all legal procedures, all legal roads will be closed. Earlier, in 6306, the decision that we gave to the Constitutional Court and had cancelled was repeated, which is contrary to the Constitutional Court. We know what we say, whatever we say, as you will understand, but at least it is wise to place your hand on your conscience and not deliver this country to such a spoiler, ranta. This country belongs to all of us. When you fall out of power tomorrow, you'll see that the loot is huge. Now, maybe you're trying to sleep peacefully with the money in your pockets, but when there's no land left to live in three days, no breathers left, you'll all regret what you've done, and history will ask you to pay for it, and we will answer for it on behalf of our nation. We call the whole bag a total no. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit09spe0179par0043	I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit09spe0180par0046	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit09spe0179par0047	We'll look for enough numbers for the meeting. Mr. All, Mr. Çam, Mr. Altaca Kayşoglu, Mr. Doğan Türkmen, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Bektaşoğlu, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Akın, Mr. Öz, Mr. Torun, Mr. Yım, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Cleansel, Mr. Karbıyuk, Mr. Beklıoğlu, Mr. Şekırözer, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Sarıbal. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, there is a request for an open vote on the 16th article of the bill: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 411th Amendment to the Constitution of Turkey's Entity Fund, as well as to the opening vote of the 16th Amendment bill of the Law shall be held in the form of an open vote. Coral Danış Beştaş, Adana? Here. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, İstanbul? Here. Çağlar Demirel, Diyarbakır? Here. Ertugrul Kürkçı, İzmir? Here. Nursel Aydoğan, Diyarbakır? Here. Imam Taşçıer, Diyarbakır? Here. Celadet Bagpipe, Bitlis? Here. Müslüm Doğan, İzmir? Here. Saadet Capable, Batman? Here. Persistent stone, Pain? Here. Abdullah Zeydan, Hakkari? Here. Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman? Here. Garo Paylan, Istanbul? Here. Aycan İrmez, Şırnak? Here. Ayþe Acar Başaran, Batman? Here. Lesgin Botan, Van? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the clear vote on Article 16 of the Law Bill 411: Ali Haydar Hakdi Fahmi Cubic So the 16th article was accepted. Congressmans have informed me that the Justice and Development Party's Erzurum MPs will have a treat for all the members of parliament. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0179par0001	I now open the tenth session of the 127th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The commission is here. The government is here. By the way, Erzurum, we thank our MPs.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0181par0005	Bon appétit.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0179par0006	We stayed in the motions for amendments on Article 17 of the Law Bill 411. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the amendment of the Law Bill to the Establishment of the 411 Entity Fund and the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws by İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi in 19,4,2012, Supporting the Developments of Forest Villages No. 6292 and Adventing Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of Treasures, as well as the amendment of Law Against the Law on the Sales of Lands of Agriculture (2/571). With all due respect. Musa Pine Ancient Don't Stop Utku Cakırözer Bihlun Tamaylıgil Selin Sayek Böke Zülfikar Inönü Uniter The 1st and second paragraph of Article 17-2863 of Law No. 17-2863 (a) has been modified in the following way, including the 1st and second paragraph of paragraph 3, the term of "Alan's term of duty is three years after the third paragraph" was removed from the text of the municipal status in other areas. The head of the field, which expires in office, can be reassigned to the Ministry." The phrase "Alan" in the second sentence of the third paragraph was changed in the form of "The Ministry of Culture" in the form of "The Ministry of Culture and Tourism" in the first sentence of the fourth paragraph in the phrase "As part of the draft of a management plan." "In order to protect, assess, and improve their connection points with the management areas, the ministry drafts or prepares a management plan. The ministry can co-operate with other public institutions and organisations regarding the preparation of management plans. An advisory council is formed from members of vocational rooms and NGOs and professors of the relevant departments of universities to make proposals on the decision and implementation of the draft." Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 17 of the Law Bill 411 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel Abdullah Zeydan Nihat Akdoğan Besime Konca Saadet Skilled Ferhat Encu The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0182par0036	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0179par0037	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. On the motions, Mr. Kadir Koçdemir will speak. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0183par0042	Mr. President, honorable MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Goethe says: "The eye sees but sees what it knows. " Right now, the power that we hand over Turkey's execution is not the separation of forces, but the force itself, which says that it wants unity of forces, which comes from medicine, which comes from municipalism, and the staff that are with it are with it significantly from the municipality. For him, our government is relatively successful in public service areas in municipalities. He can do a $10 job for 15, but he's doing it. What's all this? Roads, bridges, transportation, infrastructure, welfare. But in areas that are not in the municipality, for example, failing in foreign policy, failing in the judiciary, education, education at all levels, our country is constantly going down in international rankings in the first, middle, higher education areas. Again, safety is not a success in law enforcement. The national defence and military are not successful in ruling the army. All of these failures were registered once again on July 15th. Again, culture is one of the areas where the government fails to be in the municipality. In terms of culture ministers and culture, I really think, our AK PARTY friends and their bases will not be able to express any change except those that are significant and can be expressed by money from the 2000s. He also sees that he knows about culture. There are regulations that are being looked at from the truth, and that are being made here, either to be excluded from normal tender legislation or to ensure that those who violate zoning obligations can be easily removed from it. Our ancestors said: "Fear what you say, Tokum." Since our President came from the municipality, he spoke of transfer of authority to local governments from the first days, autonomy from local government, increased capacity and capacity for services of local governments, but the gap between promise and action showed itself here, as in other areas. I, a bureaucrat in the General Directorate of Mahalile Governments, have made it clear that, in time, authorities in Turkey, the authority of local governments and rural administrations, not just by municipal and private administrations, are also in charge of the provincial units of the public administration. So much so that Ankara now determines how many coals will be distributed in the district and how many students will be helped, and all of this has been done under the name of localisation. Today, with this arrangement, the appointment of field presidents in charge of local governments, co-direction audit boards and advisory boards are fully submitted to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. There is a principle that we have signed, and according to our Constitution, which is above the Constitution, the European Local Governments have a rule over the Autonomous Condition; the principle of subsidiarithity states: "A service, as a principle, must be carried out by the nearest unit to the citizen. If this unit is not able to perform this service at all or effectively, then a senior administrative unit must take over. You throw away cities, municipalities, counties, all these powers to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and in its name you call localisation, the fulfillment of local democracy. Friends, I was in the country at the time, and while this whole city was being implemented, there was no one in the ruling party's department, the mayors of the county council, our members, any of our other MPs who had it. But, here, somehow, that went by with your votes, and there are problems today. These arrangements are similar. In that respect, come, I suggest we remove this clause from the text of the law. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0184par0051	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. The speaker on the other proposal will be Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan. Here you are, Mr. Aydoğan.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0185par0055	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you first. Of course, a lot of laws have been passed in Congress, in this General Assembly, from the day you came to power. Despite all criticism from the opposition, this bag of laws is based on your numerical majority. We've always said, and now we're saying that every bag of legislation that's ever been passed -- as far as it's concerned -- has caused a wound to Turkey's democracy, so it's in Turkey's democracy. Now, we've got another bag of law. This bag of legislation has a unique and significant quality to it than any other bag of laws. Dear friends, this bag of legislation has struck a clear and clear blow to Turkey's democracy. It's called a political coup. There was a political coup on June 7th. Turkey entered the elections very enthusiastically, democracy in part, good results were revealed, but as all of the Parliament's friends know very well, the election results, the polls were not respected, the country was taken to elections in a conflict environment. The November 1st elections were held in this environment. Of course, it was meant for our party. Fortunately, the people's will prevailed, and those who wanted to expel HDP (HDP) from Parliament failed in this political coup. Now, my dear friends, why is this bag of legislation beating Turkey's democracy? All the friends have said it, and I'll say it. Think about it, because of an investigation into a democracy-run country, a mayor could be dismissed by the Interior Ministry or by a governor or a trustee without a verdict. It's not enough, and the city council members will be relieved of their duties. If you were so curious, you should've passed a law like that after the December 17th-25th operation so we could be happy. There were so many charges against you, there were charges of theft, there were accusations of corruption, then if you had made such a law, you would have said that if you had made such a law, you would have said from the mayors that we would have dismissed all those mentioned in theft, in corruption, all those being investigated by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. If we had come, we would have approved this law together. Look, you're not doing this because you're a democratic party. Now, in order to remove the will of the people, just to get the DBP mayors out of office, you bring such a law against public morale, to lead the people to despair. Not enough, you're trying to stop Şırnak, Hakkari, from being a province. Well, build a chest, bring it in, put it in a referendum, and we'll see what the people of it say. In Istanbul, you people who have a referendum on what color city bus people will take, you change the names of two cities, you return them to county status, you don't go back to the public and ask. That's your idea of democracy. But we all need democracy, we all need democracy. These days will come and go, of course. We'll see if these days come and go together. Those who don't value democracy, those who don't build democracy with institutions and organizations in this country will see what's going on in this country's future, we'll see together. But we say, it's not too late, let's embrace democracy together, let's build democracy in this country. This is what will save all of us and bring Turkey back to the democratic future. I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0186par0062	Thank you, Mr. Aydoğan. I will submit the same motions to your votes.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0187par0066	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0186par0067	We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Danış Beştaş, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Sancar, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Konca, Mr. Botan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Taşçier, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Atash. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the amendment of the Law Bill to the Establishment of the 411 Entity Fund and the Amendment to certain Laws and Law Laws of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi to 19,04,2012, Supporting the Developments of Forest Villages of the Historical and 6292, and Alternateing Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of Treasury, in the following way. With all due respect. Hussain Pineak (Mersin) and his friends The 1st and second paragraph of Article 17-2863 of Law 17-2863 (a) has been modified in the following way, including the 1st and second paragraph in the first sentence of paragraph 3, the term of "Alan's term of office is three years after the third paragraph" was removed from the text of the municipal status in other areas. The head of the field, which expires in office, can be reassigned to the Ministry." The phrase "Alan" in the second sentence of the third paragraph was changed in the form of "The Ministry of Culture" in the form of "The Ministry of Culture and Tourism" in the first sentence of the fourth paragraph in the phrase "As part of the draft of a management plan." "In order to protect, assess, and improve their connection points with the management areas, the ministry drafts or prepares a management plan. The ministry can co-operate with other public institutions and organisations regarding the preparation of management plans. An advisory council is formed from members of vocational rooms and NGOs and professors of the relevant departments of universities to make proposals on the decision and implementation of the draft." Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0188par0085	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0186par0086	Government? We accept, Mr. President. Mr. Hussein Çamak will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Pineak.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0189par0091	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I wish our martyrs, who have lost their lives in recent terrorist attacks, to our wounded, and to our immediate cure. In general, the Bill of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws in the establishment of the Turkish Entity Fund harms all of our subterranean and above-ground assets, planning processes and management of cultural assets with the republic. The more we oppose the coup process, the more we oppose the removal of our public spaces and cultural assets. Precious lawmakers must be added to the declaration of the Law on Protection of Culture and Nature 2863, excluding areas where construction bans have been imposed on the fourth amendment to Article 65. The goal of protection is to connect yesterday to today, as well as to help create a historical environment that can exist within itself by linking the past with the future. Clearly, it is necessary to ensure that the environment does not lose its historical appearance. Therefore, it is imperative that the members of the board be appointed by those who know both the theory of protection and the practice of protection. Otherwise, only on the basis of his bachelor's degree, the appointment of foreign members as board members can lead to loss of cultural presence and personal harm. The Protection High Council's ability to make a different decision by ignoring the decisions made by the Protection District Council also causes the law to conflict within itself. With the rapid growth of the population, the real estate sector has become the fundamental economic element of society, especially land and construction, but despite the lack of restoration companies, insensitivity and disparity in urban protection, destroy the historical fabrics of our cities, and lead to a low level of workmanship in historical building restoration. Restoration and urban protection, along with technical knowledge, requires a long experience, and studies are based on a special education and practice. If art historians and archaeologists are not trained privately, they can't know; architects, interior architects, planners who don't know, and inexperienced restorers have difficulty. Not every art historian, archaeologist, city architect, and lawyer can verify and approve the restoration of a 14th-century mosque, a city protection plan; although common sense and positive thinking cannot replace knowledge and experience. Apart from this knowledge of history, true love of history requires a romantic passion in a way. The historical process cannot be a matter of dry information. Dear lawmakers, history produces once, historical artifacts are one, and protection can only be done once. Artifacts are a value that can't be sacrificed for money. Without destroying the historical identity, we need to develop methods of protection and use to boost the country's reputation. It has to be the most respected, learned, experienced specialists in history who choose history, protect, repair, control history. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0190par0099	Thank you, Mr. Pineak. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0191par0103	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0190par0104	We've got a roll call. We'll accept, Mr. Altay... The motion will be accepted. What's your final decision?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0192par0107	We're on our feet, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0190par0108	I may not have seen it.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0192par0109	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0190par0110	Mr. Altay, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Kayşoglu, Mr. Bektaşoğlu, Mr. Yılim, Mr. Çamak, Mr. Yöslan, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Basci, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Emir, Mr. Türkmen, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Adımeli, Mr. Öz Özdemir, Mr. Tuncer. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. There's a request in the 17th Amendment that the vote be held in the form of an open vote, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the opening vote of Article 17 of the Persistent Code of Laws to change the amendments to some Law and Laws by the establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund, which is currently in place in 411 rows. Coral Danış Beştaş, Adana? Here. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, İstanbul? Here. Çağlar Demirel, Diyarbakır? Here. Ertugrul Kürkçı, İzmir? Here. Nursel Aydoğan, Diyarbakır? Here. Imam Taşçıer, Diyarbakır? Here. Mahmoud celadet bagpiper, Bitlis? Here. Saadet Skill, Batman...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0193par0129	I can handle it.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0190par0130	Müslüm Doğan, İzmir? Here. Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman? Here. Cadri Yıldırım, Siirt? Here. Persistent stone, Pain? Here. Selma River, Hakkari? Here. Garo Paylan, Istanbul? Here. Lesgin Botan, Van? Here. Abdullah Zeydan, Hakkari? Here. Ayþe Acar Başaran, Batman? Here. Aycan İrmez, Şırnak? Here. Mahmoud Toğrul, Gaziantep? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll start the voting process and give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the clear vote on Article 17 of the Law Bill 411: ▪ Number of votes used: 196 [[X]] Fehmi Cubic Ali Haydar Hakver Thus, the 17th article of the bill was adopted according to the motion adopted. In Article 18 there are three motions, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of the 411 Entity Fund and the Amendment of some Laws and Law Orders of the Law and the Amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi in the following way of the Developments of Forest Villages No.19.2012 and the Development of Forest Villagers No. 6292 and the Value of Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of Treasures, and the amendment of Law on the Sales of Agriculture Lands of Treasury (2/571). With all due respect. Musa Pine Ancient Don't Stop Utku Cakırözer Bihlun Tamaylıgil Selin Sayek Böke Mehmet Beklıoğlu Article 18-2863 has been added to the following article. "EK MADDE 5-In all projects or practices conducted by the Ministry of the Ministry, the duties and powers given to the Offices of the Law, the Protection, the practice, and the audits shall be carried out by the departments of the region. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 18 of the Law Bill 411 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel Abdullah Zeydan Nihat Akdoğan Besime Konca Saadet Skilled Ferhat Encu The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Erkan Haberal Kadir Koçdemir Saffet Sandzaklı Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0194par0181	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0190par0182	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Saffet Sandzak will speak first on the motions. Here you go, Mr. Sandzak.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0195par0187	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I ask for God's mercy on our brothers, who were killed in the attack on Van, Bitlis, and Elazig, and I pray for immediate healing for the wounded. Of course, these children are not martyrs for their father's field; they are martyrs for our country's interests to protect the country. Notice that we've started to get used to these martyrs, and we've started to give them numbers. It's actually a great danger to us. There was a major struggle last year from July 20th, and a serious break in the back of terror, but within a month after the July 15th evening, maybe after that coup attempt, the soldiers were pulled into the barracks, maybe from necessity, trucks, business machines were put in front of it, and after the soldier was pulled into the barracks, the terrorist organization began to revive in the east and southeast, and they got the bombs again, and they dug up the tunnels again, and now the martyrs began to come again. And it occurs to us that the struggle we've been fighting for over a year has gone to waste? Now, there's something special about us: we're concentrating on something. That's where we all focused after the evening of July 15th, where we forgot the other side. I gave a speech here on the evening of July 19th, and I said about this coup attempt, let's not forget the southeast as we look here. While we're concentrating on something, we're forgetting about something else, and we need to find an urgent solution to this problem. We're not supposed to spend every day giving martyr news, offering our condolences to these fallen relatives, wishing the wounded an immediate recovery. In an emergency, the precision of this coup attempt must be shown on July 15th, and the government must do what needs to be done, especially as a pioneer, to break the back of terror and not come any more news of this martyr, my friends. Of course, after this initiative on July 15th -- I want to talk about something second -- people started to get taken. There are criminals among them, but unfortunately there are people who are not guilty. When these people are being taken, there has to be a document, a criminal data, so that they can be taken, or we can't pay for the sins of those who have been wronged. Officers and bureaucrats and people from many parts are being laid off, and we need to be very careful with these, but the second more important thing is: after these people are taken, who will replace them? Friends, officers, bureaucrats, civilians who will be replaced by these, if they are not carefully put in place, this whole operation will be in vain. Of course, what do you have to look at when these people are being put in charge? The biggest problem of the Republic of Turkey now is the security problem and the traitors who settled in the country. So we're going to look at two things: one of them is going to be a patriot. Second, he'll have a driver's license and merit. If we don't look at these two criteria again, and we place this close to us, this party, this party, this party, believe me, it's going to be a bigger threat than what's at stake right now. I don't have a lot of time, but this football is where the operation jumped. Something's going on in the Federation. But most of the takers are officers and people downstairs. If we don't clean up this top, this whole thing's gonna go to waste again. My old teammates... right now there's some footage on TV, the press, some videos. They're on a witch hunt right now, everybody's selling each other out, thanks to them. Note, too, that these children had the Istrillal March read dozens of times. Most of them are national heroes. Of course, there are some of them who are wrong, and they're going to pay, but there's one thing we have to remember, these kids are 20 years old, maybe 20 years ago, something happened, let's get them here, let's go to the prayer, let's get the money, let's distribute it to the poor people. You have to be careful here, too. I played for Galatasaray for two years in the 1994-1995 season, where those images were. Fortunately, we weren't fooled, and we couldn't be fooled, but let's not let anyone treat these kids like traitors. If he's got a document, if he's guilty, let him pay for it, but let's not judge them collectively. I'll be speaking again soon, and there'll be more. I'll give you a wider story. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0196par0199	Thank you, Mr. Sandzak. The second speaker on the same motions will be Mr. Ayşe Acar Başaran, Batman MP. Here you are, Mr. Acar Başaran.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0197par0203	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, yes, as my friends have already stated, we are talking about a soup bill again today. Because if I try to figure out what laws are in the bill, it'll be a whole extension of my time. We've collected laws so complex, so unrelated, and most of us don't have complete control over it, but, you know, we're trying to talk about some of them as much as we can. Today, a motion came to the House regarding the appointment of the rectors, and then he withdrew. It was very accurate, but his motive was written on the pages of this House as a black mark. So I'll read it back to the transcripts, and I think we need to talk about this: the choice to be president is causing unjust practices, resentments and personal strife in college, and causing chaos in higher education institutions. Now, friends, that's basically what we're wrong about: elections, democracy, don't bring chaos. It's the antidemocratic practices that bring chaos, it's getting away from democracy, it's monotheism, it's denial, it's destruction. We've seen this very recently, and the result of this chaos of these practices is that on July 15th, the pulse mechanics we saw are coming into play. If we really believe in this country, as we shout in those squares, if we truly believe in the will of this people, if we really want democracy to come, if we do this, by getting them to vote, by ending the duties of the mayoral co-chairs or parliamentary members that they won the elections, by driving them away, by holding all the power of the central government in their hands, by gathering all the authority and appointing the trustees, then there will be chaos. So, basically, we won't have learned from July 15th, and in the coming process, we'll be contributing to the deepening of this chaos. And it has to be clear that, basically, this Parliament is disallowing itself by saying yes to this bill because a council that doesn't believe in the election from here, that allows trustees through the election, single-mindedly, to be replaced by single-mindedness, doesn't have the answers to go back to that people because they themselves don't believe in this system. So, as I said, to actually say yes to this law, to this bill, is the biggest blow to democracy, and to create a greater basis for chaos that could take place in the coming process, and as I said, it is self-loathing, which means the House can't even control its own will. Like we said, there's a matter of trustees in this law. We all know why these trustees were brought here. Because the AKP didn't win any of those municipalities, and none of them got the public's support. In places where he could not receive public support, he is trying to seize governments by political coup, as a continuation of the coup he inflicted on him on July 15th, trying to take control of the will of the people. So, as we say, this Congress is trying to complete the July 15 coup with a hand-me-down, which means yes to the law. Again, in another part of this law, a painting that ignores ecology, ignores human rights and freedoms, ignores people's rights to choose and be elected, as we say, the biggest blow to democracy that you've read all the time, but you can't internalize it, is how meaningless it is for you to stand here. For him, we not only vote against this motion, but against the entire law. We would like to point out from here that we will never be partners in this shame that the House has entered. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0198par0213	Thank you, Mr. Başaran. I will submit the same motions to your votes... [[A group of HDP MPs stood up]] We've got a roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Aydoğdu, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Sancar, Mr. River, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Botan, Mr. Konca, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Taşçüer, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Botan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund No. 411 and the 19th edition of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, the draft draft of the Law and the Amendment to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws. We propose and propose the amendment of Article 18 of the Law Proposal (2/571) on the sale of Law on the Lands of Agriculture in the name of the Treasure, and on the outside of the Forests, and on the grounds of the Development of Forest Villages of Numbers 4,2012 and 6292. With all due respect. The following article has been added to the Law 18-2863. "EKMADE 5-In any project or practice done or done by the Ministry of the Ministry, the mandates and powers given to the Offices of the Law, Protection, Applications and Controls are carried out by the regional councils." Moses Pine (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0199par0234	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0198par0235	Government? We can't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Kazim lion will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0200par0240	Mr. President, an additional clause has been added to Law 2863 concerning the establishment of the Turkish Entity Fund 411 rows and the amendment to some laws and regulations. With this supplement, all projects and applications conducted or carried out in the country are used by the offices of the conservation, enforcement and control departments. That's how the transfer of authority was made. I, for one, salute you with love and respect, and I pray for God's mercy to our soldiers and to our policemen, who died of terror at Bitlis, Elazig, and also to the wounded. My dear friends, I would like to point out in particular that this arrangement should have come to us as the basic law under the title of Law 2863, but as an additional clause, it would have been a setback in the integrity, unity, and understanding of the law. The law is the law; we're able to pass on all our thoughts to you. And I'd like to go beyond the subject of this clause and bring you up to speed on some of the issues that are on the agenda. I'd like to say that there have been a number of errors in the investigations conducted recently, especially because of the coup attempt by the GERPs. In particular, the government will be terrified of the coup attempt, which, after the coup attempt, began to rule this country by declaring a state of emergency in 81 provinces. Now think about it, you have 317 MPs in Congress, you're in power all by yourself, but you can't feel strong, you're trying to rule this country, this country, this country. That means power has a weakness, lack of power, can't rule this country well. When power came to power in 2002, you were bragging that we had an extraordinary state in our two provinces in the southeast, that we had removed it, but now there's an extraordinary state in 81 provinces, that you don't say anything, that you think you're running the country. My dear friends, in this extraordinary manner, you are now issuing decrees in many forms of law, and you are not bringing the decrees you have brought to the House to discuss them in this extraordinary manner. The apps are so wrong, you've got the colleges all over the place, you've filled them up, and now you're trying to clean them up. After the coup attempt, you call a meeting, you have all the deans of the faculty resign. Such a thing has never been seen or experienced in this country, my dear friends. In addition, there is no doubt that people in the university are being questioned and arrested, who are really involved in terrorism, who are contributing, who are in charge. But with people who are out of it being kept under surveillance for days, and themselves being disturbed and relieved of their duties, we're entering a period that will start today's school year, my dear friends, with the lack of faculty at many universities. I would like to point out to him that you have to conduct these investigations without harming, without harming, without harming other people, without harming his family, his community, his profession, his identity, his identity, his personality. That's how I finish my words. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0201par0247	Thank you, Mr. lion. I will submit the motion to your votes... III. Exposure
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0202par0251	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0201par0252	We've got a roll call. Mr. Çam, Mr. Kayriyet, Mr. Kayşoğlu, Mr. Yım, Mr. Türkmen, Mr. Emir, Mr. All, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Men, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Altay, Mr. Reservist, Mr. Kara, Mr. Erdem. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I will submit the clause to your votes in accordance with the motion adopted. Congressmans, there is a request for an open vote on Article 18 of Law Bill 411, which is being held. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the opening vote of Article 18 of the Court of Law on Amendments to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws of Turkey, as well as to the establishment of the 411 Entity Fund, which is currently in session. Coral Danış Beştaş, Adana? Here. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, İstanbul? Here. Çağlar Demirel, Diyarbakır? Here. Ertugrul Kürkçı, İzmir? Here. Nursel Aydoğan, Diyarbakır? Here. Imam Taşçıer, Diyarbakır? Here. Mahmoud celadet bagpiper, Bitlis? Here. Osman Baydemir, Şanlıurfa? Here. Müslüm Doğan, İzmir? Here. Abdullah Zeydan, Hakkari? Here. Mahmoud Toğrul, Gaziantep? Here. Ayhan Bilgen, Kars? Here. Selma River, Hakkari? Here. Besime Konca, Siirt? Here. Aycan İrmez, Şırnak? Here. Garo Paylan, Istanbul? Here. Erdal Atash, Istanbul? Here. Lesgin Botan, Van? Here. Ayþe Acar Başaran, Batman? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the polling results of Article 18 of the Law Bill 411: [[x]] Fehmi Cubic Ali Haydar Hakver Thus the 18th article was accepted. There are three motions in Article 19 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, 19,4,2012, the Support of the Developments of Forest Villages of the Dated and 6292, and the Appropriation of Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of Treasures, and the amendment of Law on the Sales of Agriculture Lands of Treasures (2/571). With all due respect. Musa Pine Özkan Yılım Bihlun Tamaylıgil Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Kazım Arslan The following article has been added to the Law 19-2863. "EK MADDE 6- The project and implementation work for restoration of immovable cultural assets in areas of natural disaster where public order or security has been corrupted to stop or cut down the normal life, and can be carried out by the Ministry without charge, provided that the property and other interests are taken care of. For those whose projects and practices are not possible to be completed within a fiscal year, the next year may be widely loaded. Congressmans, now that the motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 19th article of the Law Bill 411 is removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel Abdullah Zeydan Nihat Akdoğan Besime Konca Ferhat Encu Garo Paylan Other authors of the same motion: Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Kamil Aydın Erkan Haberal Kadir Koçdemir Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0203par0321	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0201par0322	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın will speak first on the motions. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0204par0327	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Sir, we have 411 rows of text. In fact, when we look at the text -- some speakers have expressed it so far, until this time of night -- believe me, when you read it from top to bottom, there are a lot of spelling errors, spelling errors, letter errors, content errors, even a lot of repetitions, in which there are contradictions. Now, of course, it's natural, in such a short period of time, to go into mass production to make these mistakes inevitable. And, of course, when they see these things done in such a hurry, like the Bekri Mustafa joke... you know, the funeral prayer, you know, the way the world prays, the way Mustafa's state is now imam, the funeral prayer. Just say it, they'll understand. We see what level of sensitivity we have in this regard. Dear MPs, really, now, the Turkish National Assembly legislature. We'd like to say from a kitchen analogy here, from a really delicious example of making food, that if we're going to make something beautiful, the way to do it is through the kitchen. There's not much flavor in the service, but the kitchen is very important. These are the commissions. In the commissions, seriously, carefully, and with everyone's opinion, you have to make a nice meal here by putting salt, pepper, taste, vegetables, meat in proportion. But we, unfortunately, bring in what we need to do in the kitchen, we're stacking all the ingredients here; sir, salt, pepper, eggplant, eggplant, pie, consciousness, bu, c'mon, let's get something nice out of here... You know what? In this hour of the night, for the sake of such relief, let me tell you, Cem Yilmaz put out that line, and it will be mixed up, but there is no answer. What's his name? It's complicated; we put something in 411 rows, it's got everything in it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, it's really like this in everything, and it's causing trouble. The mistakes we make, they rush into... you know, the rush that gets the devil into it. So this is a simple example. Why are we in such a hurry to who, what are we trying to grow? Please, in the kitchen, all of us, together, with all the features, the mind is better than the mind. There is nothing but the voice of one hand, the voice of two hands. If there is something healthier, there will be no more time for us to deal with. In no parliamentary system in the world, for God's sake, at this time of night, I really appreciate and worry that I admire my dear fellow lawmakers who are trying to stay awake right now because they're really trying to resist something human. God forbid there's any negativeness to their health. Does something like this have to happen? What are we in such a hurry for? Why? Remember, we did a similar study for visa exemption, but unfortunately, that one month's work went to waste. What happened in return? We've done it, he's lost, he's got nothing to do with it. It would be better if we slowly, with certain steps, healthy, without the need to re-correct with the bag of legislation, corrected the materials we agreed on in a way that would really respond to the needs of our citizens in Turkey. Otherwise, sir, our child will always read the building, turn around, and read it again. It'll be like, we'll repeat the same thing over and over again, and we'll try to make up for the mistakes we've made with the new bag of laws and the old bag of laws. Yes, we work in parliament all night long. The image is beautiful, but believe me, there's no production. I'm just saying, sir, we comfort ourselves and deceive ourselves. I salute you all at this hour of the night.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0205par0335	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. The other speaker on the same motions is Mr. Garo Paylan, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0206par0339	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow congressmen, I salute you all. The coup d'état on the 15th of July is a disaster. Great societies and high-minded societies learn from their experiences. But lately, when I'm gone at night, when I turn on the TV, there's a higher mind everywhere; conspiracies, sir, imperialists, the higher minds are flying. But we had a plague, and there was a period of preparation for it. As long as we don't look at the actors of this preparation period, that plague repeats. Because, friends, there's a tradition of coups, and on average, we've had a coup every five years. We've warned you many times about the preparation period at the e-mutation of 2007. Look, what happened during the preparation of the 2007 e-magnition? The priest Santoro was killed, and the court was overrun, and the massacre at the Summit of Malatiah, and Hrant Dink was slain. We've been saying for ten years about Hrant Dink... there were a few cameras left there, a lot of cameras deleted. There were some individuals in that camera footage, who were watching Samast. They were showing the way, and they were running after him while he was running. Who are these people? We asked them for ten years as friends of Hrant. But you haven't looked at them in ten years. Today, after this coup, ten years later, you say, "Well, there were nine police officers there, too." We'll see about that, if added to the indictment. Ten years from now. Look, right after the 2007 e-magnition, when Abdullah Gul became President, you said: "We have the power now, we have the power, there's no need to look back. But then, the next thing we know, you don't have the power, because you haven't faced the coupk tradition and the crimes committed by the coupger tradition. In the same way, let's come to today: July 15th coup attempt. Yeah, you're attacking businessmen because it's a coup attempt. Thanks, the guilty ones, of course. You're shutting down health care, IVF centers. A guitarist, an Armenian guitarist, you're relieved of duty in the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality -- my friend -- a member of the Armenian community only, no other crime. This job is being manipulated, my friends, just as the E-magic pulse has been manipulated, if the Ergenekon has been diluted and can't face the coup d'etat tradition, it's being manipulated because you're not looking at the preparation of the coup. Look, ever since the Oslo process, since the MIT crisis, there's been a coup d'état that's been trying to keep the Kurdish issue from being resolved, not to have peace. In Roboski, those who bombed Roboski were given medals, you know. One minute he killed two soldiers in Ceylanpınar, and the next he's a coupger. It was the coupger who gave the information to Davutoglu. Davutoglu has come out, he has passed radio messages from Kandil. They have given me intelligence and order to remove the planes. He has ordered us to talk about the killing of Osman Baydemir 2 police officers yesterday. See this so that we can face the coup process. He said, "You refused, but you refused, and you are not looking at this." You keep making the same mistake, and as you make the same mistake, unfortunately, there are the same consequences; the coup d'état lives on. Guys, we've got the coup d'état now. This coup d'état doesn't fit in the same way, I'll tell you that, it's a tradition. If we're going to convict this, we're going to have to catch him by hand with all his actors. That's only by catching actors in preparation. Who tried to overthrow the Oslo process? Who manipulated Habur? Who bombed Roboski? Who murdered two of our policemen in Ceylanpınar? If we can take a look at these, we'll catch the coup d'état, we'll bring out all the actors. It's not the businessmen we have to deal with now. Now we don't have to pass the coup laws. A month after the coup, the coup laws are passed, and a month after the coup, they try to face the blow. Let's do this together, guys. Come and withdraw the coup laws. We've got the tail of the coup, let's take his body, and we'll never get hit again. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0207par0350	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of the 411 Entity Fund and the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws of the Laws of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, dated 19/4/2012, to support the Development of Forest Villages No. 6292, and to change the Law on the sale of Agriculture Lands of Treasury (2/571) in the following way. With all due respect. Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu (Gresun) and his friends The following article has been added to the Law 19-2863. "EK MADDE 6- The Ministry can perform projects and implementation jobs for restoration of immovable cultural assets in areas of natural disaster where public order or security has been broken down in order to stop or cut down the normal life, or where there is a natural disaster. For those whose projects and practices are not possible to be completed within a fiscal year, the next year may be widely loaded. Does the commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0208par0360	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0207par0361	Government? INTERVIEWING, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY LOOKS İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0209par0366	Mr. President, I've taken a pledge on the 19th amendment to the bag bill we're discussing in 411 rows. This article adds an additional clause to the Law on the Protection of Culture and Nature, 2863, and predicts that in extraordinary cases cultural assets can be repaired without the permission of their owners, without the consent of their owners, and can be repaired by the Ministry. Dear lawmakers, in fact, there's some kind of parallel law being created in this article and many articles of this bag bill, and we'll see later on in trustee assignments, in other substances. In fact, the relevant law has written in a serious, detailed way how to find a solution to that problem, but the government comes to us with this bag of legislation, saying: "In this case, in extraordinary cases, the Ministry of Internal Affairs will be treated as follows when it is removed from duty for this reason. Dear lawmakers, this is the tradition of the 1982 Constitution, which you -- particularly the Law and Development Party MPs -- have strongly opposed and put in front of you as the ultimate goal of changing it. In the Constitution of 1982, all freedoms were widely written in the international agreements, however they were written, followed by such freedoms, such rights were rendered unusable. With this additional clause, there is an extraordinary situation in which people, the owners of that cultural transport, are seriously violating the privacy of their homes, family privacy, property rights, and security has been corrupted. They will make changes on grounds of it, repair it without asking them. In fact, I have to say that this is about Diyarbakir-Surk. Dear lawmakers, this has become a habit, a tradition. Other governments would have done it, but the Justice and Development Party in particular is doing it. After July 15th, we didn't expect it to be like this. Look, I've told you before, my friends were very angry, and there's this arrogance that 50 percent of people have given -- in the nail -- we can do anything. I'm the only one who's told 10 times from here, that in democracies, the chosen majority rules the country. No one has any objection to that. In fact, beyond no objection, how did Turkey become united when it was in danger, how did we all gather in this Parliament, when those bombs were dropped, all the groups sat here, you saw this, dear friends? We are in agreement in democracy, but it is truly surprising to us, my dear friends, that, just after the 15th of July, we have paid a great price for democracy, the laws that will take over the House like this. You are shutting down not only the Assembly, but the municipalities, all the relevant institutions; you are gathering all the powers at the centre, giving them to the Council of Ministers. Look, there are some items in the bill, such as 75/4. This one, this one, we bring exceptions to these laws. The law stands, but by the decision of the Council of Ministers... this authority is the authority of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... and the authority to make the law is inadmissible, my dear friends. Look, in democracies -- we're not going to reinvent the world -- yes, the elected majority governs, but the elected majority governs in law and control is essential, my dear friends. What you're doing is one of your biggest problems. You have to give up that thought if you really think it's a democracy. The impacts on this wall... in the economy, in democracy, in international relations -- let's face it -- you really hit a wall. We may have paid a great price, but it's the democracy we're losing. In order not to hit the wall again, you really have to meet the minimum needs of democracy, but that's not what you're doing; you're raising your hand here. It came from the government. It came from above. From whom it came, you raise your hand; and when you raise your hand, you actually destroy democracy, my dear friends. Good evening.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0210par0374	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. I submit the motion to your votes... ll. - Exposure
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0211par0378	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0210par0379	We've got a roll call. Mr. Çam, Mr. Türkmen, Mr. Akin, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Yım, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Kayşoğlu, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Men, Mr. Emir, Mr. Akar, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Bachelor, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yüysel, Mr. Zeybek. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Before you submit the clause to your votes, there is a request for an open vote of Article 19 of the bill: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the opening vote on the 411th Turkish Entity Fund, and the 19th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. Coral Danış Beştaş, Adana? Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, İstanbul? Çağlar Demirel, Diyarbakır? Here. Ertugrul Kürkçı, İzmir? Here. Osman Baydemir, Şanlıurfa? Let's wait for the guys to come. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Congressmans, please... Yeah, let's move on. Nursel Aydoğan, Diyarbakır? Here. Nihat Akdoğan, Hakkari? Here. Imam Taşçıer, Diyarbakır? Here. Mahmoud celadet bagpiper, Bitlis? Here. Ayhan Bilgen, Kars? Here. Müslüm Doğan, İzmir? Here. Selma River, Hakkari? Here. Coral Danış Beştaş is here. Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman? Here. Garo Paylan, Istanbul? Here. Filiz Kerestecioğlu is here. Lesgin Botan, Van? Here. Aycan İrmez, Şırnak? Here. Ayþe Acar Başaran, Batman? Here. Abdullah Zeydan, Hakkari? Here. Mahmoud Toğrul, Gaziantep? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll start the voting process, give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I read the conclusion of the open vote of Article 19 of the Law Bill 411: [[x]] Fehmi Cubic Ali Haydar Hakver So we accepted the 19th article. There are three motions in Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of the 411 Entity Fund and the Amendment to Some Laws and Laws of Laws, and the amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, dated 19/4/2012, to the development of Forest Villagers No. 6292, and the adoption of the Lands Out of Forests in the Treasure Name of Treasures, in the following manner. With all due respect. Musa Pine Ancient Don't Stop Bihlun Tamayligil Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Selin Sayek Böke Kemal Zeybek Article 20-2863 has been added to the following temporary clause. The duties of members of the advisory council and the co-ordination and audit board are terminated. In place of those whose duties have ended, they will be tasked to receive the views of municipalities concerned with the Ministry within six months of the period when this clause is in effect. Congressmans, now that the motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 20 of the Law Bill 411 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel Abdullah Zeydan Nihat Akdoğan Besime Konca Saadet Skilled Ferhat Encu The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Erkan Haberal Kadir Koçdemir Saffet Sandzaklı Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0212par0458	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0210par0459	Government? We can't agree, Mr. President. İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem will speak first on the motions. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0213par0464	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, first of all, I ask God's mercy on our fallen martyrs who have died in Elazıg. We have many wounded, and I pray for immediate healing for our wounded. And I would like to repeat from here our prayers so that these grave events don't happen again. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on our motion on Article 20 of the Law Bill, to establish 411 of Turkey's Entity Fund and to change certain Laws under the Law and Law. I salute the Veterans' House. In fact, there are a number of issues that I would like to add about the 19th article, which is that after the 1999 earthquake, a law of urban transformation was created, especially in humans, that was very hopeful. After this law, people who lived in particularly risky buildings thought with great hope that these buildings would be repaired and that they would sit in solid buildings after the destruction. However, this law, which is in the interest of the nation, unfortunately, has not been used in this proportion, and the practice of this law has turned into a random transformation. We all know that, especially as the Istanbul MP... in many major areas, important locations, 40 acres on the main streets, 50 acres of large areas have been declared risky by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism as big projects. Each apartment was sold for $1 million, $2 million, $3 million, unfortunately to the rich. What was really the point there? It was the hosting of people who lived in those areas - those who were at risk of earthquakes. Unfortunately, as this has not been done, the rich have been given more rent and the large real estate companies have gained their share. Now, the 19th article actually gave me the exact same call. This time, he says, "Projects and implementations for restoration of immovable cultural assets where public order or security has been disrupted or interrupted by the usual life, or where natural disasters occur, are being carried out by the Ministry for free and free of charge. The application work conducted within this scope is done within a year. If it is not completed within a year, it can be extended for up to four years. We need to take a look at what we understand from here. Again, in the same way, what is the motive this time? We're showing terrorist incidents. What's the motive? It's showing an extraordinary state of mind. What's the motive? Again, the earthquake is showing, but this time there's repair and restoration. So, what are repairs and restorations for under normal circumstances? It's done for the benefit of the nation, but the interests of the nation will not be in question here again. Again, this area will be transformed into a Ranta by being abused by a number of people. So, what I want to point out here is that the law of urban transformation, just as it's turned into a random transformation, is that the steps that need to be taken in the interest of the nation are not going to be transformed into the same sort of random transformation. We, the National Movement Party, have always worked for the interests of our nation in particular, and we will continue to do so. When we see such threats, especially at this time when the rights of earthquake victims are not being given, even though people are still living in buildings at the risk of earthquakes, especially while the government and the Ministry of State and Environment and Urbanism still have been able to repair them, despite the fact that there is no support for those buildings, I would like to stress that the need is especially needed to prevent this from being done. Thank you again very much, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0214par0473	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. As the second speaker of the same motion, we will listen to Mr. Nursel Aydoğan, Diyarbakır MP. Here you are, Mr. Aydoğan.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0215par0477	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, once again, hello, everyone. I salute you all. Dear friends, four or five hours ago, news agencies received news. Here's the news. Minister of Environment and Urbanism went to Zambia. He made a statement to the press after visiting these burned and destroyed sites in Turkey's southeastern province, where he met with the merchants for some time. In his statement, he stated that he had come to Highova to look at public institutions and institutions and to locate them. Meanwhile, he said that a $2.5 billion grant had been set aside for Yüksekova, that the grant had been left, even though there were difficulties, that he had been mayor in Kayseri for twenty-one years, that no amount of money, such as 2.5 billion, was brought to Kayseri, that it should be cared for, that it should be valued, that it would be made to Paris with this coming money. Of course, when I said Paris, I suddenly thought of Sur. The Prime Minister of the period, Mr. Davutoglu, had also come to Diyarbakır, and had made a statement to the Diyarbakırans and to all the public in the area where Sur had been banned. They were to make Tyre Toledo after the ban had been lifted. We are surprised that it will be difficult to choose now whether we go to Paris, Toledo, or whatever beauty we see!) But that's not the truth of life. It has been about a year, and the curfew has not been lifted yet, and the blockades continue. The wall was nearly destroyed, including the historical structures inside the Sur. Of course, we know what to do with it, we know what to do with it. So they want to have an impact on the public, and they're trying to break the bond that we call an unbreakable bond with the people. But don't worry, I mean, the Amedians, the Diyarbakırns, they depend heavily on their parties, their struggles, their values. Despite all that's been done, he's on the sidelines of his parties' struggles, and he's behind them. What I really want to ask is, we're still seeing this law here, so it's not clear whether or not it's going to come out. I mean, the will of parliament hasn't been revealed yet, the will of the General Assembly hasn't been revealed here, but Mr. Secretary of State is going to Yüksekova. I mean, the will here, the meeting we're having right now, is looking for a place for public buildings in Sustova, in a way that will throw it all away. I mean, there's one thing that's been cleared up, one thing's been confirmed, he's been looking for a location on that exact situation. I mean, there's no way to accept that. I would like to express that I, in the name of Parliament's will, find this statement very wrong in the respect of Parliament. The outcome must be expected, negative or positive, it doesn't matter. But from here, to go to Highova, without any results from this General Assembly, to start working there as if there had been a result -- once again -- is disrespectful to the will of the MPs who are currently conducting this work in the General Assembly. That's what democracy is all about, being a Democrat, not ignoring someone else's will, their decision. I wish that each and every one of us, once again, should increase our sensitivity to democracy, democracy, every day. Once again, I'd like to pay my respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0216par0484	Thank you, Mr. Aydoğan. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the amendment of the Law Bill of Laws to change certain Laws and Laws in accordance with the establishment of the 411-trial Fund and the amendment of the Law on the sale of Laws of Laws and Laws of İstanbul's Deputy Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi.19.04,2012, Support of the Developments of Forest Villages of the Forests and Developments of the Treasures, in the following way. Moses Pine (Izmir) and his friends Article 20-2863 has been added to the following temporary clause. The duties of members of the advisory council and the co-ordination and audit board are terminated. In place of those whose duties have ended, they will be tasked to receive the views of municipalities concerned with the Ministry within six months of the period when this clause is in effect. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0217par0493	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0216par0494	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. On the motion, our Samsun MP Kemal Zeybek will speak.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0218par0498	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the establishment of Entity Fund No. 411 and Article 20 of the Perpetual Bill of the Law to Change Decisions in Some Laws and Laws. The following temporary clause has been added to Law 2863. The duties of members of the advisory council and members of the co-ordination and audit board are terminated. In place of those whose duties have ended, they will be tasked to receive the views of municipalities concerned with the Ministry within six months of the period when this clause is in effect. Law 2863 was created in 2004 for the purpose of protecting, sustaining, and developing the sites of the sites and their interaction fields, and aimed at the highest level of economic and cultural use of the fields. I'm asking the minister and the power: who is the new appointment intended for? (HPP) There are tasks of protecting cultural and natural beings to protect our country's historical values, cultural wealth and natural beauty, to pass on to future generations, to live. It is not right to terminate the duties of the boards with the relevant interim clause. We're looking at the dissolution of the law and the duties of the boards with suspicion. We're concerned about slaughter and patronage. Let's make the law right, let's put careers and merits first, protect our historical, cultural and natural wealth. Cults, politics, trade, power, conflict of interest have confronted our country with a July 15 coup attempt. The military's national emotions are high, our patriotic uniformed security forces, and the government's unconditional nation. The coup was prevented by the teachings of Ataturk, who said, "Other people resist." (HPP) In this coup attempt, civil war has been waged in our country for the interests of domestic and external environments. Our people who lived in the spirit of the Salvation War have blocked the civil war. The July 15 coup showed the state in our country where the structure of the congregations took place. For those who bring democracy to mind by calling it the national will, it has been learned that it is the democratic right to go out and perform. It was July 15th that the schools in the congregation moved into the state. What congregations are represented by the schools of Ensar and TURGAV? In order to form the transition of our country into dictatorship, constitutional monarchy, you are placing the Range cults and congregations within the state, which are located in student homes, schools and homes of Ensar, TURGAV, and congregations of the congregations. The republic, democracy, a small amount of secularism, justice, conscience, law has won against coups, and Ergenekon, the Balyoz cases, the Lighthouse and their prosecutors have laid the groundwork for the coup days before the July 15 coup. The celebration of our national holidays has been prevented, and those who wish to destroy secularism in the state have led to the July 15 coup. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit10spe0219par0508	Thank you, Mr. Zeybek. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0219par0001	I now open the 11th Session of the 127th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The commission is here. The government is here. We were in the process of the amendment motions on the 21st article of Bill 411. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund 411 and the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws and the amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi to the Law on the sale of Agriculture Lands of the Treasury (2/571) to the 21st Article of the Development of Forest Villages of Dated and 6292 and to the Protection of Forest Borders in the Treasure's Name. The Ancient Don't Stop Moses Pine Utku Cakırözer Bihlun Tamaylıgil Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Selin Sayek Böke ADADDE 21-13/10/1983: "All capital is paid to municipalities by municipal companies" and the joke as the final sentence, "in order to arrive after the first sentence of Article 16 of the Highway Code 2918, after which the electronic systems are established and operated by the municipalities, by 30%, and then by 20%, until they have reached the cost of investing in electronic systems." sentence added. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st amendment of Law Bill 411 shall be changed in the following manner. Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal ADADDE 21-13/10/1983 in the first sentence of Interstate Law No. 2918 in the first sentence of Article 1 of the article "Memorandums," "or all capital is applied to municipalities by municipal companies" and to the joke "the amount paid to the municipalities if the electronic systems are established and operated by the municipalities is paid 15%." sentence added. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st article of the Law Bill, which is currently in session, be removed from the draft text of the bill. Çağlar Demirel Abdullah Zeydan Nihat Akdoğan Besime Konca Saadet Skilled Ferhat Encu Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0220par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0219par0030	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Osman Baydemir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0221par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I would like to express my satisfaction that all the issues that we've expressed so far have come to a certain level of understanding of each other at this time of night. But there's another thing that's been the biggest problem for almost a few days: municipalities, which are the most difficult to understand, are elected by the will of the people, and are a public organization. You took out the mayor of these municipalities and appointed trustees in his place, or you seized the property of that municipality, the service building, the vehicle, which means there's no difference, Mr. President. I myself am a humble brother who has been mayor for ten years. The trustees must, of course, be removed, retreated, but even if the trustee withdraws as a whole, we are on a ground that, once again, can create as much breach as the trustee's appointment, create a field of neglect, and actually destroy the will. Once again, I'd like to repeat our call to the members of the group: we're about to come to a truly satisfactory stage. Maybe in an hour, if this material is included in the withdrawal process of 23 and 50, we'll have the opportunity to do it within an hour, with the common denominator, with suggestions, in some places, within this time of night. Perhaps tonight's compromise will be a tradition, an experience, and a blessing from a plague. Once again, I find it useful to say that when coup mechanics bombed this Parliament, the HDP, MP, CHP, AKP did not discriminate; therefore, we need to learn a lesson from here. I think it's in my opinion that we can also meet in common denominators at the beginning of that class... no doubt each of us, each of us, each and every political party, trying to respond to different needs of society, but once again, when the common mind prevails, look, we've all spent the college's establishment together, unanimous. Therefore, let us establish common wisdom. As of this moment, HDP has also a request for the release of this bag within the law, the 23rd article and 53rd article -- the other trustee and Hakkari, Şırnak. In this minor, I salute you all with respect, love, and respect, with the belief that this General Assembly will respond positively to the group's representatives.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0222par0040	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0223par0042	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0222par0043	It's okay. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st amendment of Law Bill 411 shall be changed in the following manner. ADADDE 21-13/10/1983 in the first sentence of Interstate Law No. 2918 in the first sentence of Article 1 of the article "Memorandums," "or all capital is applied to municipalities by municipal companies" and to the joke "the amount paid to the municipalities if the electronic systems are established and operated by the municipalities is paid 15%." sentence added. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0224par0051	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0222par0052	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Erhan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0225par0057	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, what's meant to be done in this article is that, you know, there was an arrangement in 2011 to set up these electronic control systems by municipalities and transfer a share to municipalities in the case of joint use with the Security General Directorate. This is something that first entered the system in 2011. There, he was passing over 30 percent of the traffic tickets to the municipalities if he set up or set up this system the way I had just framed it. Now, as the first one here, this 30 percent is reduced to 5 per cent, going directly to 5 per cent. Later -- there are proposals here -- the first motion has been made to increase 5 per cent to 10 per cent, and later to 15 per cent. Now, my main objection here, before I get to the content of the case, is that what we often say in the previous articles and in the previous laws, is that the account is being edited without work, without bookwork. Now, when 30 percent of the population is so abundant, there are 15 per cent of the 30 per cent of the municipalities that are being transferred to the companies in general. There's a lot of money going on here, and now you're going to go straight down to 5 percent. I'll have to answer for it now. There are so many investors. On the one hand, you're victimizing the investor, and you're wasting the government with the extra money you're sending, and now there's a usual income there, and then you're keeping it down. Would something fall from 30 percent to 5 percent? Is that a thing? This is manual work, no work, no books. We've been working on this for a week: how much income is collected, how much income goes to municipalities, how much goes to companies? No one in the state of the Republic of Turkey knows that number. Serious numbers. I meant it as an example when I was talking about the rest of it. There's an Army case, so it's mind-blowing. In the army, 100 million liras a year from here, only in a province like the Army. Think about it in 81 cities, and the system is constantly improving. That's what the corporations are looking forward to right now. I mean, corporations are where we get to build these things, you know, in terms of a corporate-focused management sense. The point here is, sir, let's check traffic, not avoid accidents. All of a sudden, you're dropping the speed limit from 110 to 70, and no one's on that radar. So it's meant to be a trap and a sentence from a citizen. Look, between Fatsa's entrance and Bolaman's, there are 11 radars within a five-mile radius of the Bolaman Tunnel. Is that even possible? That's where people punish what they earn. I mean, it doesn't make any sense that we should check traffic like this, sir, check the speed limit or anything like that. Then, in something broader, there are 18 radars within 75 kilometers of the Samsun-Ordu county border to the Army's downtown area. It's completely driven by corporations, and it's cruel to the citizens who have seriously lost their income. I mean, it's a total robbery. That's not gonna happen. It's about making the wrong law. So it's something that's so right that you're doing something wrong. When you transfer a significant 30% income there, this system has to be installed per step. However, this would have been done from the very beginning, both in the centre and in a way that would allow municipalities to make such an opportunity. Now, there's been another mistake here. The system continues to be sent to its founding municipalities at 30 per cent, 15 per cent for those who do the system in a do-and-do-sharing way. Why are you making that distinction? So the municipalities close to the government, or rather the municipalities from the government party, the municipalities from the ruling party, have a lot of resources, they have a lot of resources from there, their finances are better, those municipalities will get 30 per cent of the revenue, but their finance situation will remain in 15 per cent, because of the trouble with these resources transfers. That's not fair either. We need to make these arrangements right. By thinking about the work from the beginning, by doing the account book, that's what we call an impact analysis. So if these studies had been done from the beginning, we wouldn't be talking about this today. These were spoken in 2011, and spoken here. So three, four separate motions. Look, I repeat, there's a 30% rate, that's what we've been using for four years. We reduce it to 5 percent, we say it didn't happen. We subtract it to 10, we say it didn't happen. We subtract it to 15. We don't know what's coming tomorrow because there's no account book. And there's no one in the government who knows the answer to that. The Treasury doesn't know how much money he's transferred. Without knowing it, he sets up a system like this: it goes on to be 30 per cent until the investment is paid. Yeah, well, you don't know what you're getting, you want people to know the price of investment. This is an extremely wrong procedure, but I'm afraid these are the practices of the Justice and Development Party. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0226par0069	Thank you, Mr. Master. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund 411 and the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws and the amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi to the Law on the sale of Agriculture Lands of the Treasury (2/571) to the 21st Article of the Development of Forest Villages of Dated and 6292 and to the Protection of Forest Borders in the Treasure's Name. Ancient Durmaz (Tokat) and his friends ADADDE 21-13/10/1983: "All capital is paid to municipalities by municipal companies" and the joke as the final sentence, "in order to arrive after the first sentence of Article 16 of the Highway Code 2918, after which the electronic systems are established and operated by the municipalities, by 30%, and then by 20%, until they have reached the cost of investing in electronic systems." sentence added. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0227par0077	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0226par0078	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Old Man Durmez will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0228par0083	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's Group's motion on Article 20 of the Law Bill 411. I salute you all. Dear friends, in our county, in our country, in the cities where we all live, we live together in a lot of pain in traffic. It's a matter of undisputed consideration, a problem that needs to be considered. In this sense, in many developed countries around the world, control with camera systems is a criminal sanction, and then after a long period of time, it's a fact that when you feed on education, these accidents decrease, and punishments fall. It's also a case where a lot of punishment is written in short distances, with its implementation in our country. That's why we're getting serious warnings from our citizens, information that we need to be more thorough and careful about this. However, this is the additional 16th article of Highway 2918's Traffic Law, called Traffic Electronic Control Systems, called TEDES, a traffic exercise developed to control traffic flow, control transportation, ensure safety of life and property. After what we've been through in our country, it's a system of law enforcement and security, monitoring the intensity of traffic flow, monitoring records, providing and building legal evidence; again, questioning plates through video monitoring systems from the security information system, stealing and so on; preventing illegal events in meetings and demonstration walks, and also useful in preventing and controlling communities' provocations and control. It falls to the Supreme Parliament to analyze this system correctly and to ensure that the local governments will be strengthened and provide this service. In this sense, the government's offer to the Plan and Budget Commission was to reduce the 30 per cent share to 5 per cent. However, after long-term debates in the Commission, it has been moved to about 15%. When we look at this number, 6 major cities in our country, 1 borough, 9 borough municipalities are running this system. Again, there have been tenders in 1 major cities, 4 districts, 11 districts, in the process of building. Again, in 14 major cities, 21 cities, 36 boroughs and cities were planned, and came to the tender process. In this case, we are at an average low in Turkey. That comes with a lot of benefits, dear friends. As you all know, we've lost a lot of politicians, artists, scientists, in traffic accidents that are of great value to our country, all due to recklessness, carelessness, lack of control, and some of that can't be illuminated. And the reason why it can't be lit is because we don't have these camera control systems on our way. For this reason, I believe it would be more beneficial to increase the share of local governments from 15 per cent to 20 per cent by our motion. Coins with resources, well-inflicted incomes are established by their means; other municipalities are looking for a deal, some of which are three years, some of which are five years, by agreeing with the installation systems in Turkey. The draft, passed by the Commission, will continue the deal of the old 30 per cent, which we believe is unfair, which we believe will be a 20 per cent proposal from the Republican People's Party to a reasonable degree. I say it is in the interest of the High Assembly to support this reasonable proposal in order to strengthen local governments, control traffic flow, contribute to the peace and so forth, I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0229par0091	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. There's a request that the 21st Amendment vote be held in the form of an open vote, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the opening vote of the 21st Amendment bill of the Law shall be held in the form of a clear vote of the 411th Amendment to the establishment of Turkey's Entity Fund, which is currently in session. Çağlar Demirel, Diyarbakır? Here. Coral Danış Beştaş, Adana? Here. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, İstanbul? Here. Ertugrul Kürkçı, İzmir? Here. Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman? Here. Lesgin Botan, Van? Here. Besime Konca, Siirt? Here. Aycan İrmez, Şırnak? Selma River, Hakkari? Here. Ayþe Acar Başaran, Batman? Here. Osman Baydemir, Şanlıurfa? Here. Ayhan Bilgen, Kars? Here. Persistent stone, Pain? Here. Imam Taşçıer, Diyarbakır? Here. Erdal Atash, Istanbul? Here. Müslüm Doğan, İzmir? Here. Mahmoud celadet bagpiper, Bitlis? Here. Nihat Akdoğan, Hakkari? Here. Mehmet Ali Aslan, Batman? Here. Abdullah Zeydan, Hakkari? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I read the conclusion of the open vote of Article 21 of the Law Bill 411: [[x]] Fehmi Cubic Ali Haydar Hakver Thus the 21st article was accepted. Article 22 has three motions. Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı has withdrawn the signed motion. There are two motions on Article 22: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of the Peace Fund on Turkey and for some Laws and Laws and the Amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi to the sale of Laws on Laws in the Name of the Treasury (2/571). With all due respect. The 5th and sixth jokes of Article 8/4/11/1983 of Publicisation Law 2942 have been changed as follows. "In 15 days from the date of the notice of this article, the contract shall be issued by the representative of the court or the representative of the agency, if the issue of this article is to be submitted to the administration, by negotiating and agreeing to sell non-performance property, or by the request of the trampa; negotiations on the date appointed by the commission will be negotiated, in order not to exceed the estimated value of it, or if the agreement is reached by the representative of this agreement, and the agreement shall be submitted by all legal and operational properties of the non-resulting property, the cost of publicisation of the financial identity information, or the deed of the deed of the estate and the release of the estate. This report is considered a legal reason for the feral declaration of the estate and the registration of the deed to the administration. Under the administration, the bill of agreement shall be issued within 45 days of the deadline, at the latest, in preparation of the price specified in the report, in accordance with the written statement that the administration has been cleared of all tacits and rights on the pre-government move. After the registration or release of the deed, they will be paid the price of publicisation." The Ancient Don't Stop Moses Pine Utku Cakırözer Bihlun Tamaylıgil Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Selin Sayek Böke Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of the Law Bill 411 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel Abdullah Zeydan Nihat Akdoğan Besime Konca Saadet Skilled Ferhat Encu Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0230par0153	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0229par0154	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0231par0159	Mr. President, on behalf of my party and my group, I have made a pledge on the 22nd Amendment of Law Bill 411. I salute you and the public. Dear lawmakers, it has become common for the AKP government to come to parliament with a view of a bag of laws, which require many different areas of expertise in one commission. But the most remarkable part is that even as such a bag of laws is being drawn up by AKP lawmakers, it creates strange situations where even now there are confusions about the name of the law, whose name is the entity Act, but no study of existence involved. Dear lawmakers, the amendment to the Publicisation Act is envisioned, along with the regulation of Article 22 of this article when it is examined. But this amendment to the Legislative Law is a matter of which the Plan and Budget Commission should not be in the area of expertise, but should actually be discussed directly on the relevant commission. Meeting in commissions outside of its specialisation will also make it impossible to predict problems that may occur during the long and short term of implementation. Therefore, it would be much more appropriate for Parliament to be removed from the draft text and transferred to the residency commission and to come to the General Assembly stage after a technical exercise is carried out there. Of course, this bag of legislation, which is sure to cause problems in many areas, could not be expected to pass without touching Kurdish lifestyle and culture. The concept of war, particularly after the solution process, is that the mindset, which has left no evidence in one day, is also after creating a cultural wreck in Hakkari and Şırnak, to clean it up. The most basic basis for democracy is social reconciliation. But even in this regard, a mechanism has been implemented that ignores the opinion of the locals. Again, an illegal environment is being created by changing the City Law and by means of internal affairs and governors to take people's democratic gains away from them. Of course, with the change planned to be made in the City Code, it is not a threat to Ankara Municipality, which praised Gulan, but to the city of Bitlis, Diyarbakır Municipality, Van Municipality, while still talking about democracy in the process is nothing more than fiction. If you anticipate changing the historical, cultural and democratic achievements of the people on a district or province, it is imperative that you consult with the people of that region. However, the ruling party, which should have done so, has closed its doors to people from Hakkari, Şırnak, and trying to defend its rights by protesting the People's Assembly. If you're thinking of building hegemonia and redesigning on the public with such a bill, you need to be brave enough to face future reactions. The most dangerous issue in the bill is the amendment to the City Code, where the staff associated with terrorism can be dismissed through governor and the trustees, and they are being tried to obtain the approval of the trustee who was appointed to be discharged so that they can return. So even if they gain by law, it's certain that the governor and the governor will be subject to the arbitrary practices of the governor and the governor. The main cause of any pain so far is the loss of law in many areas. With this practice, the law is being tried to be renegotiated, and new suffering is being prepared. Before I finish, I would also like to remind you that everything Hitler did in Nazi Germany was legal because he made the law himself. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0232par0169	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following amendment of the Law Bill for the Establishment of the Peace Fund on Turkey and for some Laws and Laws and the Amendment of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi to the sale of Laws on Laws in the Name of the Treasury (2/571). With all due respect. The 5th and sixth jokes of Article 8/4/11/1983 of Publicisation Law 2942 have been changed as follows. "In 15 days from the date of the notice of this article, the contract shall be issued by the representative of the court or the representative of the agency, if the issue of this article is to be submitted to the administration, by negotiating and agreeing to sell non-performance property, or by the request of the trampa; negotiations on the date appointed by the commission will be negotiated, in order not to exceed the estimated value of it, or if the agreement is reached by the representative of this agreement, and the agreement shall be submitted by all legal and operational properties of the non-resulting property, the cost of publicisation of the financial identity information, or the deed of the deed of the estate and the release of the estate. This report is considered a legal reason for the feral declaration of the estate and the registration of the deed to the administration. Under the administration, the bill of agreement shall be issued within 45 days of the deadline, at the latest, in preparation of the price specified in the report, in accordance with the written statement that the administration has been cleared of all tacits and rights on the pre-government move. After the registration or release of the deed, they will be paid the price of publicisation." Ancient Durmaz (Tokat) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0233par0180	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0232par0181	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. İstanbul MP Gülay Basci will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0234par0186	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute the High Council. At this time of night, there's talk of a major looting law again. The 22nd article also has a problem with management areas. A clause related to the area management, museum management and the monument board is Article 22. I'm one of those who believes that our MPs here will be able to stay here until this hour with their consciences, and that some of these clauses, such important materials, will be withdrawn, but of course, our Minister of the Environment, has made us very concerned, and I'd like to share that with you. I'm reading it, I'm reading the Minister's words exactly, and he says: "We've made a mess of the environment." I'm going to open the front of the capital, and they're going to go and do it. He describes the decisions made to protect the environment as toughness, and he's also saying that he's going to open the way for the plunder of nature and the city and that he's going to allow construction to be built within 100 metres of the sea, and he's going to open the shores to tourism. Now, we already know that AKP is a power of the Rant economy, and we know that the best thing he knows is to manage this thalan. Now that they know the construction and the land line so well, they're letting the military land open up to the ranta. Once upon a time, we market Turkey. They say, "Now Turkey sells tribute auctions."
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0235par0189	We make them park, park, park. I don't think you realize.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0234par0190	All powers related to the development and projects are being transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism so that buildings and infrastructure damaged by terrorist incidents can be restored as soon as possible. The park will be built. It's called...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0235par0191	We're building a park, a park.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0234par0192	...but on the one hand, there are some companies that have looted the city so far, we want the area in Levent, and we build 200 of them for the martyrs. It's ready, it sees the Bosphorus Bridge. They call it. A man's mirror is a man's business.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0235par0193	What did Beşiktaş do, Beşiktaş?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0234par0194	The AKP's applications thus far are obvious.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0235par0195	It's obvious what you guys did.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0234par0196	Unfortunately, he's even using the coup to continue his thala so far, and there's a lot of serious problems here. With the State of Emergency arrangement on public housing, all our cultural assets with the republic will be looted in the planning process.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0235par0197	Who's going to loot it?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0234par0198	The funds will also be funded by major infrastructure projects such as highways, Canal İstanbul, the third bridge and airport, the nuclear plant. Companies that will do their nature-damaged projects, they'll be able to own treasured land -- free of charge -- underline. Do you have a conscience for that?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0235par0199	Anything in favor of the country, our conscience will allow.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0234par0200	The areas with factories or merchants on them will be removed from the forest, where the courts have been established over the forest. These are the greatest betrayals of a country. We want you to give up this betrayal as soon as possible. Even our government will pay for the labor of the firms. The administration in urban sites will have the right to make zoning plans, as well as the ministry's plans for protection and other zoning plans. These are oasis situations, these are very important. The protection area administration will be linked to the ministry; vocational rooms, NGOs will not be located in these offices.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0235par0202	Who should he be connected to? Of course we'll put him through to the Ministry.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0234par0203	Our dear fellow lawmakers, we'll limit the authority of the governors.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0235par0204	Should we put him through to CHP, so who should we connect him to?
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0234par0205	I wish you'd put me through to CHP. If you connect it to the Republican People's Party, there will be no looting in this country...
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0235par0206	Get a warrant and we'll tie him up.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0236par0207	Congressmans, please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0234par0208	...what is best for the people, for our citizens, and green areas don't open.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0235par0210	Yeah, we're in charge, bro.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0234par0211	Our people live in peace, happiness, joy, and there will be no trouble. You're a person, you have a property, and the Ministry can confiscate your property for four years, and I'm going to remodel here at the Board of Protection. You don't know what's going to happen in four years, and neither does the Ministry. We'd also like to say something about Şırnak and Hakkari. These provinces must remain a province. Our government should invest there.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0237par0214	Our government invested a lot there.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0234par0215	Here, there's a beautiful, constant snow. The first snowfall is there and the last snow to rise is in Hakkari. Also, you know in Şırnak, the city of Noah. We can have 83 provinces, not 81 provinces, and all these problems can be eliminated. In short, it's good for our whole country and our nation to withdraw this bag of legislation altogether. You ignored our warnings yesterday, and that's where we came in today. Please, for once, put your hand on your conscience and vote. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0238par0219	Mr. Backup, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0239par0220	You're the only one with a conscience, so no one else has one.
tbmm-2016-08-18sit11spe0238par0221	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
