tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement is from Manisa MP Mazlum Nurlu, who asked for the appointment of April 5th Day of Lawyers. Here you are, Mr. Nurlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have made a promise on April 5th, Lawyer's Day. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my words, I am grateful and grateful for the great leader, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has carried out many revolutions in this country as well as the legal revolution. Today we are experiencing a dangerous process in our country where laws protecting fundamental rights and freedoms are ignored, the judiciary is politicized, justice is ordered by politics, the process of oppression has accelerated into a society of fear. Our country is facing crises it has never experienced in the history of the Republic. The focus of these crises is on judicial institutions. The judiciary has been subject to more severe pressures and attacks than any time in its history; it has never been driven into such contradictions in itself, and its dignity has never been so controversial in the eyes of the public. It has more political reasons than judicial reasons. The main responsibility of this picture is the AKP's ruling, which constantly intervenes in the judiciary, wants to shape it according to its own mentality, deserves any kind of intervention, leads to this point of judgment, the AKP's policy of forming a biased judiciary. Members of parliament, the state of law describes a system in which basic rights and freedoms are protected by its simplest definition, where citizens are in legal security, where the state's actions and procedures depend on the rules of law, where arbitrary approaches are prevented by management. In this scope, it is a constitutional obligation for law and administration to be supervised by independent judiciary, to implement judicial decisions that result from auditing, to ensure that the state of law gains employment. The concept of justice is dependent on the ability to live independently without being influenced by political pressures by the three-way trial of the confiscation, defence and decision-making. In order to prevent polarization in society and avoid fundamental rights violations, the rule of law must be strengthened further. With special investigations and judicial procedures, with methods that work as a political threat tool, special authorities who are not democratic and work more like the ideological device of the state than the court should be removed, the arrest deadlines must be shortened, and the trial process must be expedited. In constitutional democracies, the most important organ for the preservation of fundamental rights and freedoms is undoubtedly the judicial body. For that, the judiciary must be independent and impartial. The principle of judicial independence is not a recognised privilege to judges, but a guarantee of their neutrality. Neutrality, a principle of moral standing and honesty, means there are no human weaknesses, no political sympathy and ideological tendencies. The fact that judges, prosecutors, lawyers, are qualified, equipped, informed, and responsible, the constituent elements and representatives of the judiciary, no doubt depends on the quality and quality of their legal education. Congressmans, lawyers are people who teach humanity, rights, property, freedom, publishing the Declaration of Freedom of Slavery, writing the Declaration of Human Rights and Freedoms, fighting injustice, fighting for equality, freedom and peace. Not only for these, but also for the establishment of the state of law, the development of legal awareness, institutionalisation of democracy, the expansion of the field of freedoms, and the protection of human rights. Congressmans, there are many rewards for working for the common good of humanity. At the beginning of these rewards comes a spiritual peace of mind that comes from fighting for a good society. Against those who don't know the Constitution, despite all political pressures in this country, I would like to thank you once again for our barrooms, our lawyers, our judges, our prosecutors, and those who have contributed to justice along with them, as one of the most fundamental functions of the state, without breaking the Constitution and the law. As a member of the Manisa Bar, which I am honored to be Mensubu, I salute the General Assembly, celebrating the Day of Lawyers on April 5th of all of our lawyers.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Nurlu. At Lawyers' Day, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey also consists of two-thirds of its Council of Presidents. On a day like this, we, the Presidential Court, celebrate Lawyer's Day. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Heromarash MP Mehmet İlker Çitil, who wants to mention the anniversary of his award to Kahramanmarash. Here you are, Mr. Çitil.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0004par0036	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers for the 91st anniversary of giving our Kahramanmarash the Identical Medal. I salute you, our citizens, who watch us from the beginning of the screens, and our fellow heroes, with my deepest, deepest feelings. Dear lawmakers, as you all know, one of the major fronts of the national war period, where the fate of the great Turkish nation has been written is our ancient city, Kahramanmarash. Since history as a nation, the most important evidence that we have not been flagless, without a country and without a nation has been the legendary national defense of our Maras, and the spirit of February 12th. The heroic sons of this ancient city were organized in every neighborhood during the occupation and victoriously fought 22 days and 22 nights in the war until February 12, 1920, with one heart and one wrist. Our ancestors who fought for the land, for the flag and for the honor of our glorious war have made this glorious victory. On 5 April 1925, our heromarash, the cradle of civilisations, who gave the best example of national solidarity with the title of the city that saved his own life, took his place in history as an Istiklal Medal of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and as a hero on 7 February 1973. This epic, written by the late Milkyman Imam, and many anonymous heroes who fired the first bullet at the occupational forces, has become the name of a national soul and the consciousness of history that will be kept alive. As a heromarash, I am proud to say that in the Battle of Salvation, the heromarash was the name of an all-out defense, an honorable and faithful resistance, not just to his own land, but to the aid of the surrounding provinces, despite the powerful weapons and military superiority of enemies. Therefore, there has not been a single chapter that did not join the national struggle. So this struggle has been one of the stars of national and spiritual values as a nation, of willing to die for one piece of land, of fighting for the sake of God, of being a star and a flag. In Çanakkale, in Kahramanmarash, in Inönah, we, the descendants of this great nation, who have triumphed over the blessed battles of the land, are doing all we can today to put on the same geography and the same civilizations, and to heal their wounds. Inside, we will continue and continue to deal with all the structures and terrorist organizations and extensions that covet our national unity and unity. I also think it's the duty of this saintly nation to take responsibility for all the parties it's responsible for, and the most important duty of this great Assembly is to act together and work for our country, our state's indivisible integrity and support, all together, to say the wrong thing, and to say the wrong thing, and to say the wrong thing, and to say the wrong thing, and to say the wrong thing, and the wrong thing. With these thoughts and thoughts, I express God's mercy and gratitude to our martyrs who have given their lives in the struggle for glory and future, and to all our security forces and citizens who have lost their lives in order to ensure peace and stability in our country. Again, on this occasion, I give my sincerest wishes to celebrate the three blessed months of you, our esteemed lawmakers and the Islamic world, all our citizens, and the Regaip Kandili. Also, on April 5th, the day of Lawyers' Day, we celebrate the day of Lawyers' Day for all of our lawyers, and wish them good work. A few days ago, I'm going to try to tell you the correct shape of HDP Deputy Director of the Group Baluken. We visit the relatives of our brothers and sisters who have been martyrs as a result of our long struggle in the southeast. We visit our wounded, our veterans in their homes. The only thing they're telling us is that we're fighting an honorable battle there, and we're fighting until there's no terrorists left, and we're rooting for terrorists. With us, our brothers are martyrs in our arms. They want only one thing from us, they have their greetings, and they have to go on until the end of this fight, until the end of it, and that way, this struggle must not be ended in any way, even if it is ended. They have a message, saying, "We are not lawful." It also means that in your presence, our brothers and sisters who worked and fought in the area, the health workers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and sends greetings to all of our public officials, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0005par0049	Thank you, Mr. Çimil. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu who wants to talk about the status of the theatres in Turkey. [[From the CHP rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Here you are, Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0006par0054	Thank you. Mr. President, it's April 5th, first of all, I'm celebrating the day of all my colleagues. Unfortunately, in this time of power, we've never been able to properly celebrate a day. Because every lawyer's day talks about a pile of problems. Lawyers who can't pay the rent of their office, the honor of the profession, the dragging of lawyers in courthouses, the breaking of their backs, the punishment for using their right to defend themselves. We know you're not sincere about democracy and law. You talk to us every day about 49.5 percent, we don't share our power. You say that. But when it comes to the bar, you want to represent the spite to get them. But once again, I would like to say here what Molierac said: lawyers have never used slaves throughout history, but they have never had masters. (H.P.'s lines of voices, applause) Have no doubt, lawyers will always struggle to establish the rule of law with this power taken from their freedoms, to establish justice with your law. I asked for this speech on March 27th, World Theatre Day, and it's up to today. That's why I'd like to address the problems of theaters. He's trying to warm up the ruling party and heat up the TUSAK bill because he wants to shut down the theatres. Of course, while we're standing here, you're thinking, what's the need for theaters, or else you wouldn't be trying to destroy theaters, theaters, and dominances that are ancient art. Both private theaters and public theaters have a lot of problems. Ministry, private theater 2015... Recep Tayyip Erdogan... Do I have your attention? The ministry says private theatres have given the highest support for special theatres for their 2015-2016 project so far. Well, that's numerically correct, but in context, we see that it's a policy to create a supporting theater. You have given no support to any theatre that participates in travel activities, theatres that fight, do important things, receive prizes, can't pay their rent. These helps are often used as a pressure to help those who are not of me, and help those who do what I ask. In the contract that has been signed to theaters that are entitled to help, there are always provisions that the Ministry can get that help back if it is necessary; you are always trying to keep the strings in your hands. Yes, 4.5 million help is important, but when we look at the comparisons around the world, for example, Shakespeare's country, England, in 2006-2007, was supported by 120 million pounds for the theatre, and the theatre of England contributed 2.6 billion pounds for the economy. So in the hands of resourceful, good governments, art can also contribute greatly to the economy. One of the most important contributions to the government's theater should be to make salons, but unfortunately, private theaters are stuck in the multipurpose halls of municipalities; lack of room, lack of access to audiences is a big problem. To support playwriting, a separate budget must be established and directors, authors and directors, who understand modern world theatre language, who are blended with Anatolian culture in order to have a say in theatre in the world. If there is still theater in this country, if the scenes are still filling, these are not yours, but the result of the republic's cultural policies on solid foundations. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] As for the State Theatres, there are theatre scenes in Ankara, Bursa, İzmir, Adana, Tripoli, Diyarbakır, Van and Erzurum. They are content with the tent theater, which was destroyed in the earthquake, which was still not repaired. There was a fire in Erzurum the other day, and we think it won't be repaired, and it's going to end up in the state theaters, and there are subcontractors at the university graduates who have been working on temporary labor status, and they only work for 72 lira a day in the season. In order for the actors and technical staff to work in a manner worthy of human dignity, they must be put on the staff to be valued by art, by the artist. You haven't opened a single scene, built a new state theater in a new city. And historically, let's say that art has always been discussed: art is art for art or art for the people? I say art can be for art, art can be for the people, but art is not for power. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Last words: Stop playing the role, because theaters are not meant to be power, but to illuminate the way of power. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0007par0073	Thank you, Mr. Altaca Kayışoglu.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0008par0074	Mr. President, for the record, state theaters have been opened in Turkey's many provinces during the 14-year period of the EC PARTY. Let the lady find out. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0007par0077	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0009par0078	You even forbade Karagöz.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0007par0079	Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of parliament who have entered the electronic system and demanded a statement by keeping an eye on the order of demand. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0010par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Georgia border gate is Sarp Border Gate, one of Turkey's most important gates, but unfortunately we have problems at this door. As of today, 200 buses are being held by Georgia for no grounds, no grounds, no legal infrastructure, and they're being severely victimised, according to a report I've just received. The bus drivers called me. I've made an attempt at the embassy before, but unfortunately, we're not getting anywhere with that. The bus, which is about 200, is held without water, drawn into any park, without any justification. I'm asking the Customs Minister and Foreign Minister to make an attempt by the government of Georgia to either close the border or let's not torture those who go there to buy cheap diesel. I demand that the concerned be sensitive to the authorities. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0011par0086	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0012par0088	Mr. President, it's becoming more and more common for the Bursa Metropolitan Municipality to live if you don't have money. This card, used in the subways and buses in Bursa, was sold by official staff at stops until last month. The city shut down hundreds of personnel by closing these tollbooths. Now, the citizen has to have a card from the filling devices, but these devices don't give change, they don't accept iron money. If you do not have paper money with you, you will not be able to get into a transport vehicle in Bursa, and if you have all the money, you will still have to buy a card with all of it, or you will have to cash it somewhere. Although the residents of the scholarship have rebelled, the practice remains unchanged. The Home Office requests that their investigators take action on this matter, thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0011par0089	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0013par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP, which implemented a sect-based policy, has failed in the Syrian problem and has almost hit the wall. The AKP government has very serious responsibilities in bringing the events in Syria to such a bad place. The AKP, who has not learned from all of these events, is playing a dangerous game by using the religion to play politics again. The AKP government insists on placing Syrian immigrants in the neighborhood of Maraşta Alevi, and the places where the AKP votes are low in İzmir. This is wrong. For 3 billion euros, you've made Turkey an immigrant warehouse, and now you're trying to turn people in different sects and different social positions against each other. The AKP government must give up this situation immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0014par0095	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0015par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, you know, there's been a frost incident in Malatya, as of March 17th. Unfortunately, after the Don incident, there's no information at all, only the Agriculture Rooms have made a statement, otherwise the Department of Agriculture, TARSIM, none of the institutions involved in this work have made any statement. The Malatians say: 'You don't provide support, at least give free information.' I want to make it clear how intriguing this matter is. Malatya, unfortunately, is going through worse times than last year. Are they interested in explaining the consequences of the most important product of Malatya? We're inviting relevant agencies to the post. Their duty is not only to butter AKP's policies, but to share with the people of Malatya what is the condition of the apricot in order to improve its apricot. I thank you all from here.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0016par0100	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0017par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. During the election, the Republican People's Party announced it would end the subcontractor system. The AKP then had to take steps towards hundreds of thousands of subcontractors it ignored in its rule for 14 years on its own. Unfortunately, however, the government's arrangement does not protect the workers' rights, and uncertainty continues. There are serious concerns about the fairness of the test system to be brought in, the consolidation of past rights, the conditions under which contracts to be renewed every three years, the financial and social rights of workers, the working conditions. About 720,000 workers are waiting to hear from us with their families. In order to give subcontractors their guaranteed staff in accordance with the principle of equitable work and prevent the loss of rights, we must work together in parliament. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0018par0106	Mr. Scholar...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0019par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is April 5th, Lawyer's Day. On this occasion, we celebrate the Day of Lawyers of our colleagues, who are an important part of our judicial system and perform a sacred profession, and wish all my colleagues health and well-being. As of today, everyone knows that our profession has many problems. As a former bar president, I would like to thank you all again for my belief that instead of taking sides in political and ideological debates, especially the Union of Bars of Turkey, the search for compromise on professional issues will contribute to the solution of professional problems.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0020par0111	Mr. Havutça... I don't think there's any Mr. Havut. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0021par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. In the district of Altınöz, Hatay district, Altınöza İhtya İhtisas (Süt) has been found in Enek, the District of Organised Industry, where the decision of the Council of Ministers, 6754, has been decided to immediately adopt it, but due to the level of publicisation costs that would have victimised citizens, our citizens have contested the situation and have been sued by the President of Investment Watch and Coordination. However, our citizens who live in Altınözözu, and especially in Dursunlu neighborhood of Defne County, are disturbed by the process and have been victimised by the verdict. Therefore, we would like to request a re-proposal of an offer that would satisfy the victims of the citizens and a decision that would not be a new victim -- Birol Terkm, Hilmi Maker, Mevlüt Dudu and Serkan Topal -- to be made. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0022par0119	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0023par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. In my written motion, which I submitted to the Parliament earlier, we see that there is no solution to the problem of the hospitals in Sivas (Sivas), which I have taken with me on a promise from here, as there is no solution to the issue of problems and problems that continue today. The person who was assigned to investigate the complaint that some 30 doctors and health workers filed on account of mobbing, unfortunately, is the Secretary General of the Public Hospitals Association, who has been complained about Mobbbing, and has been authorized to do so. So the person complaining about the mobbing is being tasked to investigate the mobbingi. I mean, what kind of weird app is that, what kind of logic is that, I haven't been able to figure it out. I invite the Minister of Health to resolve this matter, and I invite you to come up with a solution to the scandal of the hospitals in Sivas. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0024par0126	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0025par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, Mr. Health Minister, is that the 250-bed Ceyhan State Hospital, which was auctioned in 2012, is still under way, despite its employment date of 2014. The current 110-bed hospital cannot meet Ceyhan's health demand properly. When are you going to take a concrete step into this, when is this hospital going to end? Another second question to the Minister of Forest: A total of 4,750 people are working in the 389 irrigation unit operating across Turkey. Law 5620 did not mention the staff mentioned for these personnel in Law 6120. When are you going to solve the staff ambiguity of 4,750 people? Again, the Minister of Energy: 11 new thermal plants are being built in Adana's ovaries. What this environmental massacre will do in the future...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0026par0133	Mr. Tezcan...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0027par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the day of my fellow lawmakers and all our lawyers. I also celebrate the 171st year of the establishment of our police force, wishing our martyrs God's mercy, health and health to our veterans. On Saturday, we held a series of openings at Mersin. We've performed the openings of 10 facilities worth a total of 280 million and the groundbreaking ceremonies. On this occasion, I wish good luck to our Mersin. I offer my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0028par0139	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0029par0141	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, defender of justice and rights, I salute all of our fellow lawyers today. We have a lot of law-enforcement friends in Parliament. Clearly, our law enforcement professionals need a new law. As representatives of power and opposition, I think a new law on law should be passed together, free of ideology, only to address the problem of the profession. I'm saying that the bar shouldn't come up as ideological and political, but with the economic and social problems of its colleagues. I'm celebrating our lawyer friends' day again, and I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0030par0145	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0031par0147	Thank you. Yeah, it's April 5th, Lawyer's Day. I salute all the members of our profession, one of the hardest crafts we have ever worked with love. On this occasion, I extend my love to all my colleagues who have been subjected to heavy police violence in front of the court the other day, in the courts, in the courts, in the courts, in the fields, where we have always fought, everywhere.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0032par0150	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0033par0152	Mr. President, thank you. Today, the problems and tensions that have been taking place between the Mayor of the Metropolitan and the Governor of the two important executives of our Balıkesir, which have been in large media organs, have been taken to a new level by the mayor's statements. The mayor of the city accuses the governor of conspiracy, scheming, fraud, not being able to be governor, not even an officer. The top public servants of a city are in the position to cooperate with the public, but they have a bloody knife. The government is watching this fight that's been going on for a while. If there is a crime in the form of which it is alleged, then it must be done, or it is of no use to go public and try to wear people down. The people of Balıkesir expect service from these two rulers, not noise. Prime Minister, the issue must be seized and this quarrel must be taken off the agenda of the Balıkesir public.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0032par0154	Mr. Starsniper...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0034par0156	Mr. President, last week, the idea of the Vice President of Education-BIRD-SEN is that we must purge the Kemalist spirit from the curriculum. When he made the statement, we waited for correction, but when we examined the draft curriculum created for next year, we saw that the Union President had taken the task of preparing society. This draft aims to destroy the republic, the Ataturk principles and the spirit of revolution. In your training, you have removed Ataturk, revolutions, and the Battle of Salvation from your allies, who say, "We are all Ensils." What happened? Are we hearing new inventions about those foundations, new patents, or other abominations? I want to make it very clear that we are not leaving our country to the fossilized status quo bigots. My respects.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0035par0161	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0036par0163	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made a statement against the claims of the International Amnesty that Syrian asylum seekers have been sent back against their will. The scenes we've seen recently in the Obelisk Harbor are very interesting. As part of the agreement between Turkey and the EU, the first group of refugees is returning to Turkey, but the arrivals' mouths are closed, their foreheads are closed, and their extradition within a field surrounded by tarp means that human dignity has been humiliated as much as possible. Could there be such a situation as the removal and trampling of human dignity in hospitality? I'd like to point out that I strongly condemn this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0035par0165	Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0037par0167	Mr. President, thank you. Dear friends, yes, it's Lawyer's Day. Well, I'm celebrating the day of all the lawyers, but this week, you know, it's also Cancer Week. But today, in the future, but yourself, but a relative of yours, if the statistics are correct, we're all going to meet cancer somehow. I ask you, from the ruling group and from the MPs and from the commissions and from the ministers, friends, as well as 140 cancer drugs have been excluded from the plan to pay for them, please hear the voices of these people. This is not about politics or any other policy. Please, let's not victimize these cancer patients. I'd like to ask my friends at the ruling party, who are involved in this commission, and I'd like to ask the Minister once again on behalf of these patients and their families, please do what is necessary for the cancer patients to get their medicines and access and free of charge.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0038par0170	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0039par0172	Mr. President, thank you. Research officers under the Teacher's Development Programme continued their training and temporary duties at the same time, but the RWP said on February 4th that the 11th article of this programme would be called to universities where the officers in the immediate order of their staff will be summoned. Moreover, these calls were included in the ongoing course period, even though the 11th article was not changed. Despite planning their lives to stay where the university where they studied grad school, this decision, which defied the law of the SEC, suddenly created major casualties in the academic work and social life of thousands of academics. Is there a solution to this created victimization? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0040par0175	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0041par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. When we look at world history, lawyers have institutionalized human rights and the rule of law in their struggle against human rights violations, particularly torture, abuse. However, in our country, the profession of attorney struggles with many problems, while the disinterest of the bar remains unconcerned. The antidemocratic model of the bar is the main reason for its indifference to the practice of law enforcement and its political attitude. In this framework, with the legal arrangement to be made, our professional organisation should never be rescinded from the democratisation of the bar. On this occasion, I would like to welcome Lawyers' Day to the democratic establishment of the Bar, to the establishment of the active defence profession for a fair trial, and to congratulate our esteemed colleagues on the Day of Lawyers on April 5th.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0042par0180	Mr. Mehmet Erdogan...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0043par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. It's Police Week, as you know. First of all, we celebrate the 171st anniversary of our police force, wishing our martyrs mercy, healing our veterans, health, happiness and success to the workers. Again, it's April 5th, Lawyer's Day. All our lawyers celebrate Lawyer's Day, and I wish our lawyers health, happiness, and success. Justice in AKP power is only on AKP signs. Justice comes to their minds when the AKP members need it. The government, unfortunately, is using Parliament to legalize certain wrongs. Take a good look at history, it's not individual crimes that destroy societies, it's the legitimization and publicization of crimes that destroy societies. Our advice to power is to stop trying to justify wrongs. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0044par0188	Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0045par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. Mersin has been a serious metropolis with a population of over a million people and has been closed for nearly a year and a half in Mersin, closed due to the wrongs of the Metropolitan, and all buses are moving from out of town and from different places, and Mersin is in great torment. We're calling the Ministry of Transport on this, waiting for this matter to be resolved. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0046par0193	Mr. Levent Gök...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0047par0195	Mr. President, thank you. One of the world's oldest professions, law enforcement, has taken a respectable position in all respectable countries, including democracy, human rights and the rule of law. In our country, however, many of our colleagues have problems stemming from judicial problems. The lack of judicial independence, the obstruction of access to many cases in the judiciary, while lawyers, like judges and prosecutors, should be a subject of the judiciary, is currently not in the position of a lawyer's profession in Turkey, as well as the perception created in society. I, as a lawyer in my profession, would like to express my belief that justice will be done as well as the rise of lawyers and the rise of dignity in society. In this sense, I sincerely congratulate all of my fellow lawyers and all of the lawyers' Day of April 5th, where I have expressed my faith that they will be able to maintain the dignity and position they deserve, and I salute them all.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0046par0197	Thank you. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0048par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party Group, are celebrating Lawyer's Day. The concept of justice is institutionally based on a threesome; the argument, judgment and defense. The right to defend is a fundamental right, and without defense, justice is not a facility and it is not possible to obtain. The most important profession for defence and defense to gain institutional status is law enforcement, and it sees a very important function in the establishment and distribution of justice. I congratulate and congratulate you on Lawyer's Day, in the belief that the right to defend and the profession of attorney should be given the necessary importance and to be scrutinized with precision. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0049par0204	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0050par0207	Mr. President, thank you. On April 5th, it's Lawyer's Day to congratulate all the lawyers on this day. Justice is the foundation of order. Remembering disputes about justice from ancient Greece to modern society, the law, the law, the disputes about law; essentially, justice, law as the source of many unrest and finally peace. There is a legal process that has come from Solon to Roman law, from the great minds of the Islamic world to natural law and from various stages to today. For example, 1679 Habeas Corpus and that process, which we can call the emergence of various views that later highlight the basic rights of man and the progress of humanity, are fundamentally legally recognized that each being has a meaning and identity on its own. Lawyers are one of the most basic legs of the law. Basically, social consent and the sense of justice are two of the most fundamental values that hold communities together despite political differences. In this framework, people who serve in the field of law, of course, will have political views, ideological differences, different perspectives in their view of society, but because of their profession and their position, it is very important for all of us to have people who look at the common sense of justice in a kind of intellectual perspective that embraces everyone. I congratulate you again on the belief that our lawyers, like other lawmakers, are looking at the world with such an acquish, such an understanding, such a legal vision. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0051par0212	Mr. Baluken... 24- Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken put into action a concept of human and unlawfully aggravated isolation against Ocalan (Ecalan) starting on 5/4/2015 and on 5 April Days of Lawyers' Day)
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0052par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it's April 5th. As of April 5, 2015, a concept of inhuman and unlawfully aggravated isolation has been launched against Mr. Ocalan, who has been held under a heavy isolation and isolation system in the Imralı. Even Prime Minister Ecevit of the period, until 17 years ago, when he was brought to İmralı, under international conspiracy, we couldn't understand why Ocalan was handed over to us. I would like to point out that for 17 years, Mr. Ocalan has been trying to commit a major conspiracy against the isolation and isolation system in this land. A highly dangerous conspiracy that will take place for centuries, including a Turkish-Kurdish conflict, is being tried to be carried out along with the isolation system against Mr. Ocalan. Although the AKP government is well aware of its discussions during its solution process, unfortunately, it continues to continue with a liquidation understanding, acting recklessly with these conspirators. We want to express that we find this approach unacceptable, that we find it dangerous, that this inhuman and illegal isolation system must be removed immediately. Despite all these negative approaches by Mr. Ocalan, we would like to reiterate that for 17 years we have found the solution and the will for peace in the common future of our people on Imralı Island, and on this occasion to call for the immediate return of the AKP (AKP) from the error involved in the solution process. On the other hand, it's Lawyer's Day, Mr. President. In particular, recently, lawyers face great pressures while implementing the most basic human right to defend themselves in Turkey. Surveillance and arrests are a part of the practices that lawyers can't accept as part of a government of law, which doesn't fit until they're tortured in the corridors of the courthouse or in the middle of the street.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0053par0219	I'm going to turn on your microphone and finish your words, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0052par0220	...we find it unacceptable for them to deal with illegal methods. On the basis of the sanctity of the right to defend, we say that the AKP government must remove these pressures on lawyers as soon as possible. I would like to repeat once again our feelings of solidarity and support with all the lawyers who are fighting for the rights of Turkey, who, despite all the pressure to defend their rights to the end, are the Democratic Party of Peoples. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0053par0222	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I will have the motions read separately. The summary of the motion will be read because the parliamentary research motion I will read in the second place is more than 500 words, but the full text of the motion will be included in the Journal of Tutorak. We respectfully request and demand the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission under Article 104 to 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, in order to determine the problems of the tradesman and artist, in order to determine the immediate measures to be taken on this matter. 8/12/2015 1) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 3) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 5) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Kayseri]] [[Samsun]] [[Ankara]] [[Mughle]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] 20) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Inconceived]] [[Osmaniye]] The Constitution takes protective and supportive measures of the state, the tradesman and the artist, which are part of Article 173 of our Constitution." Despite his testimony, today there is nothing that improves the work of our tradesman and artist. More and more businesses are closing down day by day. Between 2005 and 2014, 1 million 868, 128 small tradesmen, 1 million 308, 621 small tradesmen (70 per cent) have been expunged from the Confederacy of Traders and Artists. According to statistics in the government's 2015 Programme, the percentage of employees as tradesmen dropped from 20.8 per cent to 18.7% in 2013. However, the number of promissory checks and protesting bonds also increases year after year. There's been a lot of cash shortages in the market lately. This grim table shows that the number of tradesmen and employers is getting smaller. The growing disappearance of the middle-class tradesman and small employer leads to the collection of capital in certain hands. The fluctuation in exchange courses and the recent increase continue to victimise our tradesman and artist, our tradesman who cannot project the cost increases to sales prices is losing every day. The true state of our business and artist, who is having trouble paying his business rent, who resists the difficulties of life, who resists the support of his mate, who operates from production to marketing, trade to tourism in many areas, is truly heartbreaking. Our tradesman and artist, struggling to survive in the increasing competitive conditions, are completely free from investing in products and services, and to grow, without affordable and cheap financing. Our shopkeeper, who can't sell what he's producing, who can't replace what he's selling, has been trapped in a vicious cycle looking for an answer to his problems. The largest task is to investigate the challenges of our trade and artists, who carry their professional traditions from our home, Central Asia, to Anatolia, and continue their trade and art with the secular culture. In this regard, we respectfully request and demand the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission under Article 104 to 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Constitution to determine the problems of our trades and artists and to determine the solution proposals under the roof of the TBMM. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect and respect for the opening and demand of Parliamental research under Article 104 and 105 of our Constitutional Council to investigate the measures that must be taken, including the legal provisions that must be taken, in order to address the problems that have arisen by handing over to private companies the world-famous or newly-explored tourist areas with the tender method of public benefit, and preventing and possible victims. [[Mughle]] 2) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 3) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] 5) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 8) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Aydın]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Samsun]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Scholarship]] [[Erzurum]] On 12/11/2014, radical changes were made in the Metropolitan City Law, along with Law 6360, which was adopted at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and published in the Official Gazette 6/12/2012. As well as changes, many economic, social, and political problems have arisen, and economic interests related to political interests have arisen. One of the products of this series of interests is the victims of the privatisation and privatisation of some tourist areas. As Law 6360 will take effect, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization of Turkey established the Environment Protection Foundation with 50 per cent partnerships, aimed at preventing the transfer of revenue-producing tourist areas to the Muğla Metropolitan Municipality. It is then known that the General Directorate for the Protection of Natural Beings has passed on its right to use with the signed protocol to the MUCEV. Other tourist sites, such as Dead Sea, Belcekziz, Iztuzu and Akbuk, are world-famous, and are still waiting to be discovered, have become subject to the transfer of private companies, which has victimised our citizens. Our speciality is not only for domestic tourism, but also for world tourism. Every year, millions of tourists come as visitors, and the world's beautiful tourist areas are reduced to this way, and it's pathetic. These privatisations, which are likely to be abused in the future, have revealed the possibility that our citizens will also be victimised while slaughtering nature. Nature's wonder, the tendering of world-famous and pristine tourism fields to private corporations, and without public interest, is the only reason for our people's right to be anxious. The fact that these tourist areas are not only visited by visitors from abroad or from out of town, has also been ignored as well as the fact that they are being used by the people of the region. So the citizens of the region were also victims. In particular, it is not acceptable for visitors who want to use tourism fields to be victims of high entry fees, a product of the avarice of the rights to operate these areas. In Article 43 of our Constitution, "Strengths are under the government's rule and auspices. The sea, the lake, and the river shores, the shorelines surrounding the shores of the sea and lakes, are primarily favourable for public use." As the expression clearly indicates, these privatisations, which have been carried out without public interest, are also in violation of the Constitution. There are also violations of Coastal Law 3621, which is organised to determine the principles of public use, open to protection and public use by observing the natural and cultural features of the coastlines. Under Article 5 of the same law, "The general foundations for the fields are listed below: the shores are under the government's rule and savings. The coasts are open for everyone to benefit equally and freely. The use of shore and shorelines is primarily for the public's benefit." In view of the expression, it is evident that the application prevents this right from being used. In this context, the world-famous and more sought-to-be-explored world-renowned tourism fields in Mugla are being given great duties to our Grand Council to investigate the measures that must be taken, including the way of the tender to private companies, to address the problems that have arisen without public interest, and to prevent possible casualties. In order for our Supreme Assembly to carry out this mission, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution 98th and TBM Council. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully request and demand that Parliamental research be opened under Articles 104, and 105, of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Council, in order to determine the current problems of public defenders, to address these problems, and to investigate the measures that must be taken, including the legal arrangements to be made. [[Mughle]] [[İzmir]] 3) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 4) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] 6) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 9) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Aydın]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Samsun]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Scholarship]] [[Erzurum]] The judiciary, one of three members of the principle of separation of forces, consists of three basic organs. These are claims, defenses and decision-making bodies. Judges working in the public office, Republican prosecutors, prosecution and public defenders also perform the judicial function imposed on them by the state as their defense. Lawyers who work in the public office also carry out their judicial duties as well as administrative duties, since they have also served as representation and defenders of the executive body in judicial areas. While public defenders have taken on an enormous responsibility for the case and execution monitoring files they are conducting, they also conduct administrative tasks to ensure that the administration acts in accordance with the law and play an important role in implementing the rule of law. Public defenders, who have also served as legal advisors of the state, are a very important part of the state's justice system as part of all of their duties. However, there is a huge gap between public defenders for judges and prosecutors, who have been known for their legal colleagues, as well as their financial and social rights, which has not been closed for years. However, it is a constitutional obligation for the judiciary to be recognised to public defenders, representatives of the defence, as well as the same independence and professional security that is recognised to the claims and decision-making bodies. In this regard, our Grand Assembly is tasked with a great deal of work to determine the current problems of public defenders, to address these problems, and to investigate the measures that must be taken, including the legal arrangements to be made. In order for our great Parliament to carry out this mission, we respectfully request and demand that Parliament's investigation be opened under Article 104, 105, and Article 105 of the 98th and TBM Charter of the Constitution. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting on Tuesday/4/2016, I would like to propose that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On December 31, 2015, it has been suggested that we open a parliamentary survey on Tuesday (June 5/4/2016), which we have given to the head of the TBMM in 656, in order to bring "the meeting of subcontractors, 4/C staff, temporary staff and contract personnel working in many public institutions in our country, to be transferred to staff, to provide necessary rights, and to provide permanent solutions to their problems." I'm going to make a promise to two members of parliament in favor of the National Movement Group's proposal and against it. In his favor, the first speaker is Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Deputy Heromarash. Here you go, Mr. Tor. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0054par0410	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the MHP proposal for the recruitment of subcontractors. I hereby salute your grand delegation and our fellow citizens who watch over us on television with love and respect. I congratulate our defense attorneys on Lawyer's Day and on the establishment of our police department, and wish them all the best. Dear MPs, before I begin my speech, I ask Allah's mercy to Major Turgay Çelik, who was killed in yesterday's vile attack on Nusaybin, Petty Officer Selçuk Karabakla and temporary village guard Adnan Durak, who was injured in the explosion in Diyarbakır province last week and who died in the hospital today. I ask Allah's mercy to our wounded, and I ask patience for patience from the great Mevla. In addition, in today's attack on the rocket in Şırnak, one of our officers was sadly killed; I ask God's mercy on this martyr named Yasar Eyük, and I ask for immediate healing for all four of our wounded. Dear lawmakers, the village ranger Adnan Durak was killed yesterday while taking his child for a vaccination. Yesterday, similar actions were carried out against the ranger, but no one heard them, and some rangers were hanged on the poles, and no one saw them; this is what hurts. There's a reason why terrorism has come to this point. Today you may curse terror, but we must curse those who bring it to this stage. Surely he who is silent in the face of injustice is Satan the mute. But he who is afflicted with iniquity, and cannot bear it with his tongue, then his heart is filled with regret. But what happened? Despite many warnings, injustice has not been seen, nor has evil been seen. Whoever didn't see it, whoever didn't hear it, I want a fire in their stove. Our citizen wants the attacks, the massacres to end quickly, and the AKP wants to stop whatever measures he takes without taking refuge behind any political or other reason. Because things are getting worse every day. No doubt the AKP is responsible for all of our martyrs and veterans. It's the AKP's power that puts us in this position. It is the AKP's power that drags the country into this dark generation. The process of solutions, unfortunately, was the result of being ignored by terrorism under the name ▪ The AKP has no excuse to say so. He must come out and apologize to our people, and say, "My people, I have done wrong, I am sorry." Yesterday's AKP Minister, Vice President Huseyin Çelik, in the words of yesterday's Vice President, stood by with his hands tied to the hands of the governor, the police, the soldiers. The mothers should not cry. It is said that today, at the coming point, the blood of Asia Minor is crying. Let alone the parents, the grandparents, the sisters, the children, and the neighbors, have become blood-crying. Almost no martyrs are left in the county. On Monday, I witnessed a large number of citizens crying at the funeral of our brother, our Special Ops Officer, the one I joined at Elbia. I've never seen a crowd like this before, but I have to say it's not going well. I want you to know that martyr funerals push the limits of endurance. The citizen's sensitivity is extreme. Precious lawmakers had not received full and regular wages of sub-employees, public institutions had no obligation to control the wage of sub-employees, often due to a change of employers, the employee's annual leave, preventive measures and vocational illness, and the lack of sufficient and necessary accession of education, unionisation and public employment agreements, not being able to make it impossible for public compensation, not being able to receive more work, not getting more overtime due to its work, not taking more time off work, not taking more than any social rights, and the majority of workers's organization has also stated that they should not be able to take advantage of it as part of the election system, and that they should not be able to be able to register it as particit. In our opinion, subcontractor work has become a means of creating cheap labor, of providing resources to subsidiary companies. Almost all subcontractors are strange, poor, alone, without protection. Therefore, we, the MHP, will support the government's arrangement on this issue in a whole manner, in good faith, in earnest, in the name of subcontractors. Dear lawmakers, indeed, the news of the martyrs has corrupted our psychology as well. Our entire citizen is in a bad mood. While the motion here is about hiring subcontractors, I assure you, there is no talking from within. However, I would also like to say that we would be happy to have 750,000 subcontractors on staff as promised by the Prime Minister. The subcontractor system is the exploitation of needy sons, the theft of futures; the decay of someone's flesh, bones, and blood while they are rich. And it's no doubt the AKP's power that has made someone this way. See, in 2002, the number of subcontractors was around 15-20000, while today it is around 750, and when we add municipalities to it, the number of workers is two hundred and fifty thousand. During the AKP's rule, subcontractor work has grown to a great extent, and today the AKP has confused our employee with statements as it seeks a solution to subcontractory work. Officials' statements carry huge discrepancies within themselves. The Minister of Finance has announced that special status will be granted. The Prime Minister says that 100,000, 150,000 people will be put on the staff, as well as 100,000, 150,000 people. There is talk of 12 months of uninterrupted work in order to qualify. I ask you: What are the number of subcontractors working for twelve months without interruption? Are you aware that there are no personal rights, such as severance, notice compensation, and that there are several entrances and exits per year? In the meantime, there's an ally union coming out, taking responsibility for the situation, joining us, and you'll win the test. He's making immoral offers in the form of a test. Dear MPs, the Turkish National Assembly's agenda is to discuss the draft of Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Act. In this case, if human rights are to be treated against the principles of justice and equality, do not establish this institution. Mr. Prime Minister, as you have promised in the polls, as you have recently announced, stand by your promise and cast 720,000 people without discrimination. We're going to support this step as an MHP, but if you put it into politics, if you discriminate, inequality here, and in this case, we want you to know that both our hands will be on your side, as well as ours, and so will the great Mavla. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's not just about subcontractors. During the AKP, the staff regime was confused. 4/C) personnel, temporary workers, temporary staff, seasonal workers, acting staff practices must be terminated immediately. Seasonal workers are not at all different. Temporary workers are employed for no more than five months and twenty-nine days a year, leaving work on a hundred and seventy-nine days so that they do not receive a staff. How will workers who work at the temporary status of 12 months a year, five months and twenty-nine days at the most, survive in our country, where a person who works 12 months a year has a hard time making a living? It is also difficult for these people to earn pension rights. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation, requesting the support of our motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0055par0424	Thank you, Mr. Tor. Ertugrul Kürkçı, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Furcier. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0056par0429	Mr. President, dear friends, a parliamentary investigation into the situation of subcontractors in subcontractors by the National Movement Party is not something that is essentially unsupportable. We're not in the way of that. But now, I think, the debate, we think the debate is over because we are now facing a new discussion, along with the Justice and Development Party government and statements that the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister have made in a row. In fact, some steps will be taken to ensure that the state, by violating the rules of the International Labour Organization, the provisions of the Constitution, and the labour law, will in fact end the process of employing the real workers as subcontractors in contractors, because they violate all the rules. But on the other hand, these will be re-recorded under contract worker status, according to current statements. It's clear that this is no response to the government's commitment to recruitment. It's impossible to look at it like it's a good thing, because what's really being focused on is that it's guaranteed work across from subcontractor work. Contracted work is not guaranteed work, so, in fact, the government says that you put them on the staff so you can sort of eliminate the fact that it violates the ILO norms, but there's no staff truth. Thus, after the government's statements and new procedures, subcontractor work will actually continue as contract labour. Because the complaints of subcontractorship, the stress of subcontractor work, the staff work of subcontractor work, the job guaranteed, the employee's rights -- from economic rights to cultural rights, social rights -- were a part of a guaranteed struggle. Now, what we're dealing with today is not the argument between being an eternal worker of the state and not being an eternal worker, it's the argument between a guaranteed work and an unsecured work. If contractors had employed workers to preserve their rights and freedoms, the workers would not have had to worry about being staffed, the issue would have led them to unsecured working conditions. Now, the government is making unsecured work a rule in their own business. See, what happens is that when you go from subcontractor to contract worker, the workers will face a three-year contract. You know, a fixed-term contract, not an indefinitely contract, but an unsecured study, item 1; it used to be 11 months, and now it's going to be three years. Who will take the test according to what? How is this going to be different from the kind of tests that go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Certainly, there will be an oral test here, and of course the workers will be asked: "Do you share our values? " Isn't that what happened until today? That's how it's gonna be today. It will be searched for conditions to be appointed to the state's office. It will not have any rights that a government official has, so as a contract employee, he will never be able to take the position he is in, he will never be able to step up, he will not be a senior officer, he will actually continue to be a subcontracted worker again. He had to get a job before November 1, 2015, so if he had entered before the elections, he could have given the vote to the Justice and Development Party. He'll get a salary from the current fee. I mean, let's say that other employees who work in the same business get 3,000 liras a month, but if he's worked as a subcontractor before, he'll still be half-priced for doing the same job, because he'll keep doing the same job. Yes, once it's publicized, it'll be assessed in the pension system by 4/A, but it won't go public, it'll be contract workers. Now, let's ask the question, where is it to stop subcontractor work, where is it to be recruited by subcontractors, where is that? None of them. After all, there is no telling when this will happen, whether it will be true or not, but promises will follow one another. Therefore, the Confederacy of Public Workers' Unions, which has issued a statement, has, of course, spoken the truth. Now, there's only one thing the government really needs to do: the most important thing is to secure their guaranteed work -- wherever they work -- before they put the workers on staff -- is to keep the workers safe, for any reason, for the union work, for the sake of the work, for the right pay, for the honorable working conditions, for the employee of the private sector, it doesn't matter. But the workers know that when they're in public, they're more in the public eye, and governments -- because they're a major employer -- don't have to violate the rights of public employees. Therefore, if all workers work in public, they want to be staffed, not subcontractors, of course, but what we're dealing with is their contract status after the promise they made to the worker. If they pass the exam, I mean, if they pass the beer test, they'll be contract staff. I think it's nothing more than trying to trick the workers once again, nullify their expectations, manage their expectations, turn their expectations into a power lifter, unfortunately. So we say, "Let this study be done, let Parliament do this research, and we'll see that in Turkey, it's actually become an unsecured working rule." The new working class is an unsecured working class. He even found them a new name, the first syllable of the word "unsecured" and the last syllable of the word "proletarian," which is called "precaria" (precaria). So, like all over the world, in Turkey, the general trend of capitalism and states is to tear the labor class to pieces and bring them to their knees in front of the government and the boss for every job. Now, for a moment, let's assume that all of this is wrong. Now, the process of getting a job with private employment offices, if it's true, let all of this lie, and in fact, everyone who gets a job through private employment offices will work under much less secure conditions because the government can sublet their employees to work elsewhere, and all of these lease agreements will apply in public. Thus, public workers, like everyone else, can be promised forever because they have already been unsecured, staff, et cetera, because the general issue that public employees are facing is the depriving of their rights and rights, the process of going downhill. That's why it's getting thrown out of the bag so we'll take the staff." he said: "O my people! In fact, since it does not exist, you will not give anyone any new rights. Facing the fate of contracted employees, contract personnel, is not a rescue for subcontractors, but, in fact, more complicated for their salvation. Therefore, the House must roll up its sleeves and start paying off its debt to the people in order to further the working conditions of the working class and all the workers. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0057par0443	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. In favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, Musa Çam, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Pine. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0058par0448	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party following a parliamentary inquiry proposed by the National Movement Party on subcontracting. I salute you all. An important issue is that we are discussing an important issue for our future generations, our brothers and children -- who are about 20 million employees in Turkey, who will be deeply concerned and will be placed in business in the future. The year 1980 is the beginning of years when neoliberal policies began to apply in the world, and in our country, along with the January 24th resolutions, and the 1980 coup, when working life began to be ununioned, unorganised, and slave labor. It was one of the operations in Turkey to implement neoliberal policies, to create an unorganised working class and to create an unorganised society. For example, in 1980 in Turkey, the country had a population of 40 million, the number of workers -- the real -- who had a collective contract -- was 2.5 million. Today, the population of the country is 75 million, but the number of workers making collective contracts -- the total number of workers' confederation -- 700,750,000, maybe 800,000. And why is that? The population of the country has doubled by 2, but the number of union workers has fallen in reverse proportions. Why? Here are the steps taken to form an unorganised group of workers in Turkey as a result of the legal arrangements to create subcontractorisation and organizationlessness. As a result of neoliberal policies, capitalism and capital and business environments, to employ cheaper workers, to exploit more, brought with them some arrangements for outside service, instead of the main workers doing the work, and the start of a cheap labor period, both in the public sector and in the private sector. Despite having signed under the state of the Republic of Turkey, Contract 94 of the ILO has, in summary, ruled that when the sub-employee workers or employees employed by public enterprises are given a job by contract of service, the contractor has underwent less rights to the workers than the rights imposed on the actual workplace, and the state of the Republic of Turkey has signed under its name. Again, I continue, according to the ILO Convention: The legislator insisted on using subcontractors instead of fulfilling those obligations. Under this arrangement, Turkey did not meet its obligations in its international contract, but did exactly the opposite of the 94 ILO Convention provisions, lifted all restrictions on public enterprises' sub-employment work, unsatisfactory, explicitly banning these workers to receive similar rights with those workers who work at the original workplace. Continuation: The stubbornness of public institutions to employ subcontractors has not limited itself to a change in Article 2 of Law 4857; Despite the Court's decision that the municipalities cannot give their original jobs to the sub-employee, the AKP government has also made changes to City Law 5393 in 2005 to provide subcontracts of cleaning, park garden, roads and various jobs in the municipalities. So, why did the AKP especially increase subcontractorization during the 14-year period of power, and why did it make subcontractorization more widespread? Because those subcontractors, the firms who received more contracts than the public, were willing to protect the area, move resources from there, organize from there, and carry subcontractors on buses even to the meetings of the AKP. For example, the sub-employee at the job site of the 301 workers lost their lives, including the firms we call the TİKİşeron, which you gave to the sub-employee, because you privatized the work that TİKIE was supposed to do, those companies who took a job there, had to put pressure on them to vote on the meetings of AKP's Manisa Look, in health, there were 16,000 employees in 2002, friends in hospitals, and a total of 20 to 25,000 health workers working as subcontractors with universities. Today, about 170,000 health workers work as subcontractors in hospitals and universities in 2016. According to the latest figure given by the Labour Minister, there are around 700,750,000 subcontractors. The election declaration clearly states that the Republican People's Party will be cast. After that, in the November 1st election, you put it in the election declaration. Now, you're doing some work to get them casted, but you can't get out of it. Why? Because you're not sincere about it, you're not sincere about it. The Minister of Labor says separately, and therefore we will recruit 700,000 workers who work at the Tabheron, which is said to be the promise of elections. The promise is taken, okay. But now, you still have questions about what procedure you're going to do it with, and you're delaying to recruit workers. Bring it in, and tomorrow, we'll do everything we can to get our fellow workers on this subcontractor to take the cast. The four-accessers who were exposed as a result of the privatisations, my brothers and sisters who did the same job. Today, even at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our friends pay a lot of different fees, staffes charge a lot of different fees; they do the same job, they work in the same place, but there are a lot of cliffs between them, friends. A very serious reform must be made in the public staff regime, including temporary workers, contracts, seasonal workers, and the subcontractor system must be terminated. We say it needs to be given. But recently you brought a new bill of law to the Health, Health, Family Commission concerning employment offices, which passed through the Labour, Health, Family Commission. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or at the latest, in the next week, we will discuss this bill for employment offices here in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And I'd like to say a few things about him: once again, friends, with this bill about the employment offices you've been stamping out, you're making sure you don't have any business guarantees. It's not enough, the severance package will be effectively terminated, the complaint compensation will be eliminated, along with this arrangement. Again, you're going to make their illegal, unsecured, flexible way of working a rule with this arrangement. Union organizations will lose serious blood in the process of implementing employment offices. Again, with these employment offices being brought in, employers' layoff costs will be reduced, workers will be used and thrown out as requested. Unregistered employment will not fall, as alleged, because the most flexible forms of employment the employers prefer are off the record. Again, the working class will be condemned to slave relations under the name of lax workmanship. Again, with this bill being delivered, all rights related to income, pension, annual leave of absence and health will be completely eliminated. Again, with this bill being delivered, the hired workers will be sentenced to much lower wages and will work for much lower wages than the other workers doing the same job. Again, in our country, which is at the top of the world in terms of long working hours, hired workers will be in a busy work pace, in an intense exploitation wheel. Again, with this arrangement, the employer will be given the right to collective dismissal, and the employer will be able to hire the same worker at the slave offices in less than eight months, without a union, unfair and unlawful. Again, with this arrangement, when employers gain the right to hire workers in private employment offices, they will put constant pressure on staff workers. Therefore, even if you make a deception policy called "We will put the Tabheron workers on the staff." Even if you do, you will actually remove the job security from these employment offices that you will bring new, and you will make the workers work like slaves, and you will employ them for food. A working order like in the early ages, unfortunately, will be put into effect by the AKP government again in Turkey, by your ability. From here, I speak to the working class and trade unions: The choice is for you to either stand in the streets, stand in the streets, fight against the AKP's power that is trying to destroy you, or the rights that you have won will go from one hand to the other. Right behind him will be severance pay, and the transfer of severance to the fund and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...will be destroyed by the AKP. We're going to vote in favor of establishing a research commission to investigate this, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0059par0473	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Jülide Sarıeroğlu, Ankara MP against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Sarıeroglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0060par0478	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a pledge today on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on a parliamentary research proposal for subcontractors, staff members of 4/C (CHP). But before I begin, I'd like to mention a few things: You know, it's Lawyer's Day. First of all, congratulations on the day of all our lawyers, including our lawyers under the roof of the High Assembly. On the other hand, before we take the stand, as Ankara MP, we have received another painful news, and we have received news of a new martyr. I ask God's mercy for my brother Yasar, who died in Şırnak. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy for all the martyrs we've lost so far. We still have brothers and sisters in hospitals who are still recovering, and I ask God to cure them immediately. I wish patience for our people and their families. I'd like to recap on this occasion that our fight against terrorism will continue decisively. We will continue to deal with those who have a problem with our country's unity, unity and brotherhood, and to live forever in our country's unity, unity, and brotherhood. Again, today was an unfortunate incident, and as a women's MP, I'm truly ashamed of it. Yesterday, our CHP Group Vice President, Mr. Levent Gökil -- which I didn't think was appropriate -- had a statement about our Minister of Family and Social Policy. While we consider this to be an apology, I would like to point out that at the group meeting today, Republican People's Party President Kilicdaroglu has used statements concerning our Minister of Family and Social Policy that I would be ashamed to say here, that I condemn this Parliament as a woman's MP. (EC PARTY) And I think it's necessary for everyone to react to these words expressed today, no matter what party they're under, if we're sincere about women's rights, if we're sincere about human rights. There's one thing that's happened, but our Minister's sincerity in this matter is obvious, his primitive posture and attitude. In fact, despite the fact that it's known to all of our parties what he's trying to say, it's very sad for our country to be able to get a political rant about something that's been infuriated, that's burned all over our country, that's what we all want to say. One call for women's rights activists and NGOs. We're not gonna leave this here. As women lawmakers under the AK PARTY group, hopefully, we'll be on it with the female members of our women's services. (APPLAUSE) We would like to apologize to Mr. Kilicdaroglu in the first place, and if he doesn't, I hope we'll begin our attempts at this matter in front of the court. But I don't think people who make women's rights about everything, human rights about everything, women's rights about everything, and those who bring it up should be silent about it. This is a test of intimacy. Hopefully, we'll all be able to figure out who's going to pass this test as women in Turkey because we're starting to think there's a different reason why this is going on. The first elected female headscarf of this country, Mr. Secretary. I wonder if the CHP still has a problem with its headscarf, and I can't help but ask myself.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0061par0486	For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0062par0487	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0060par0488	I think it's up to you to change our minds about this from now on.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0061par0489	Don't abuse me!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0060par0490	Now, at this moment, a woman is speaking orator, and again, I would like to say that the gentleman's attitude is very ugly and ungentlemanly.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0061par0491	Take advantage of everything! What makes you say that?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0060par0492	We'll keep talking, we'll keep defending the rights, I hope.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0061par0493	You talk about it, get to the point.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0060par0494	We'll also demonstrate our attitude towards unpleasant and ugly situations.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0061par0495	You didn't have anything else to say! The minister can't defend it, so you show up, right?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0063par0496	Are you the minister's attorney there?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0061par0497	Are you the minister's lawyer?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0064par0498	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0065par0499	As I said at first, I received a pledge from the MPP regarding subcontractors, temps, and personnel from 4/C.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0061par0500	You have to wear a headscarf, you have to abuse it! Shame on you! Shame on you! There's always the abuse, the headscarf!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0064par0501	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0065par0502	You know, from 2002, from the moment we first came to power...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0066par0503	You've got nothing left.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0067par0504	What's going on?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0066par0505	What's it to you?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0068par0507	Congressmans, please, sir...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0069par0508	You abuser, you!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0068par0509	Please listen to the preacher, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0070par0510	...the problems of working as an AK PARTY, not as a palliative populist, but as a permanent...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0068par0511	You go ahead, Mr. Sarıeroglu.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0070par0512	But I'm running out of time.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0068par0513	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please, I invite you to remain silent.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0071par0514	Sir, please invite the preacher to use a clean language.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0072par0515	He's using a clean language, he's using a cleaner language than you are.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0071par0516	You're dirty!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0073par0517	In 2002...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0074par0518	You're the dirty one, you're the dirty one! You're the one who made this country what it is.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0075par0519	Cleaner than all of you!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0073par0520	When it comes to women, I'm sorry, I'm an MP who's been in women's studies for years, and as a member of women's studies, I can't remain silent. That means contradicting myself. I'm sorry to bother you, but we expect sensitivity in this matter.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0076par0521	You're the one who's uncomfortable, you're the one who's uncomfortable. You're filling your tongue with the headscarf.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0073par0522	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to continue speaking, Mr. Levent Gök, as Ankara MP.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0076par0523	Like you're the only Muslim in this country? You're the Muslim of this country, are you?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0077par0524	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0073par0525	From 2002, from the very first moment we came to power, we carried out the very important arrangements for the working life that we took over as chaos. When we came to power in 2002, the legislation on working life was a product of coup d'état. Unemployment, off-the-book numbers were now way over international figures...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0077par0526	Respect the lady, respect the lady.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0078par0527	Don't be a bully here, I'll see you outside.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0077par0528	All around, all around...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0078par0529	We'll see you out there, don't be a bully here, don't be a bully.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0077par0530	Don't be an ass!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0078par0531	You're rude!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0077par0532	You don't know me, put my name on it.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0079par0533	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0080par0534	...we were faced with a broken working life. Since 2002, our power has established a new social model of working life by taking human dignity and human dignity to the center. From day one, in implementing our policies, we've implemented regulations within the framework of social dialogue and reconciliation, which put people ahead of us in implementing our social policies, working life policies, ahead of our citizens' expectations and demands. In this context, we renewed the Trade Unions and Community Convention Act, gave the officers collective contractual rights, the first time we took out the Law on Business Health and Safety, again, we declared a formal holiday on May 1st, 218,000 temporary workers were given a staff, 300,000 contract officers were reinstated, after 32 years -- a new labour law was made legal in terms of this working life -- and again, a new business law was made legal, again, to those workers who had been called up and vaporized, who had been called for funds, and then turned into steam. In this regard, we paid $17 billion to those who worked for the Savings Development Fund, and we paid $4.5 billion to the rights of the Housing Aid. In all the arrangements we've made, we've listened to the voice of our people and workers. Hopefully, from now on, we'll continue to take our stand for labor and labor. We'll never continue our efforts to build long-term policies with a common mind, not a palliative, populist. We'll continue to work with economic policies and social policies, hopefully by identifying them. When the speakers before me came in here about the subcontractor that was the subject of our proposal, they mentioned some things, but I think there are some missing information. Yes, the subject of subcontractors was a subject that was open to abuse in terms of working life. But as of 1936, there is a subcontractorization in our country, you know, and it is not a work system brought by the EC PARTY. As the EC PARTY again, under the roof of this great assembly in 2014, we made some very important arrangements to improve the working conditions of subcontractors with the Law, number 6552. We secured the right to severance, on the other hand, secured their sabbatical, provided a three-year contract. On the other hand, I have to say what I care most about is the possibility that our brothers working on the subcontractors have a union and collective contract, and from 2014 to today, most of the subcontractors are now unionists. On the other hand, there are issues related to temporary workers, but since I won't be able to keep up with the subcontractor, I'd like to go over the basics of our work. Mr. Prime Minister has explained, you know, our Finance Minister has given details, you know, that as of November 1st, we provide 720,000 employees who work full-time in subcontracted subsidiaries, in general and private budgetary administrations, regulatory and auditory institutions, social security institutions, and related capitalary administrations, city private administrations, municipalities, and private institutions, and private laws. AS AN EC PARTY, our promise of election before the November 1st election was a commitment to our brothers and sisters who were working at the original job to provide jobs in the public. In our assessments, when we listened to the voice of our workers, we decided that it would be helpful to expand the scope.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0081par0539	Thank you, Mr. Sarıeroglu.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0080par0540	It's just that I've been interrupted too much, so I'd like an extension.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0081par0541	I'm not giving you an extension, sir. Thank you, Mr. Sarıeroglu.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0082par0544	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0081par0545	Mr. Sky, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0082par0546	Sir, I'd like to set up a few sentences in order for him to go on the record. Although the AKP Group today is trying to deal with the problem of the family minister's failure to explain himself to Parliament in yesterday's session by exploiting the headscarf, we do not give them the right. All headscarfed women are the crown of our heads. We are not going to learn about Islam from the AKP. Our president is the president of the main opposition party. The facts of all the issues expressed by our president are clear. Although the AKP wants to defend itself again today by being overwhelmed by those issues, it is only possible after giving accounts to the parents of those innocent children, the abused children. While those children's sufferings, their traumas are in the middle, it's crazy to hear someone speak for the Minister of the Family here. I condemn him, too.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0081par0549	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0083par0550	This logic is extremely wrong: ▪ He can speak, he can speak, he can do. • Everyone who comes will answer. Whoever did it in the process is going to pay for it. Turkey is a state of law, but it's very wrong to treat things with a political sense of hostility, courtesy of the issue, the morality of the job.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0082par0551	Stop using the headscarf, Mr. Naci, stop using the headscarf.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0083par0552	In that regard, I find this assessment of Levent Bey very wrong.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0082par0554	Stop exploiting the headscarf, Mr. Naci.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit01spe0084par0555	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't... The proposal was not accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0084par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0085par0002	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0084par0003	The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Before that, Mr. Bauken has a request for a statement.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0085par0005	I can't get into the system because of technical difficulties. I'd like a quote from the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0084par0006	Here, I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0085par0009	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, there has been a great deal of debate and concern over the practices of the AKP's government and President Erdogan, concerning the separation of forces in Turkey for a long time. Despite all this being known, AKP officials and the President continue to say and do so day after day to increase all these concerns, while the forces in Turkey will ignore their separation. Yesterday, the two AKP MPs made statements in a television programme where they attended a TV programme in Turkey that both the administration and the legislation and the judiciary are under our control. I, of course, will not say anything for the administration, but the matter of legislation and the fact that the judiciary depends on the AKP is probably something that needs to be discussed very seriously. As far as we know, this Parliament, which holds the power of law, depends on the will of the people. At the moment, the stateship behind the Presidential Court is an unconditional nation. The sentence is written there as an important historical statement, as well as a confirmation of it. We, as part of this legislative process, are not part of the AKP's political understanding as the People's Democratic Party. Other political parties...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0086par0014	I'll turn on your microphone, please complete.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0085par0015	I think the other political parties need to have a few words to say about this, but I, especially as the Presidential Court, am curious to see how you and the Speaker of Parliament, who is probably aware of these discussions, will have an attitude. I really think that this Parliament, this legislature is bound by the AKP, that you must, from there, have a certain attitude regarding these alarming developments, whether or not a political party is under guardianship, or whether a political party is now in control of its will. On the other hand, the sentences they used on the basis of the judiciary's commitment to the AKP are truly exemplary. One of those MPs is also a member of the AKP's Constitutional Commission. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0087par0019	Come in, complete, please.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0085par0020	So for a long time, we've been saying that the judiciary is political in Turkey, that there is a palace and government guardianship over the judiciary, but we find the judgment to be in our hands. We find it in no way acceptable for them to use their sentences. While we were making these criticisms, we were putting forth such attitudes in order for the court and the government's custody over the judiciary to be removed, in order to alert the public and our people, and in order for the government and the court to give up these wrongs. Therefore, I would like to say that we are looking forward to condemning these declarations, and as the Chairman of the Presidential Court and Parliament, as you are now in a position to represent the legislature. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0088par0024	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Members of parliament, the mandate of the Turkish Grand National Assembly is stated in Article 64 of the 94th and Internal Charter of our Constitution. In view of these articles, it will appear that the duties of the representatives of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who are running the mergers, are limited to managing them in accordance with the Civil Code. Participating in the debates at the General Assembly is not able to express their views on these discussions. The reason for this is that parliamentary MPs are in charge of ruling the mergers objectively. Of course, there is an opinion on the issues you're talking about, but it is not right for us to express the opinion of the parliamentary speakers on television screens or on the General Assembly of the Turkish Parliament, except for Parliament. Turkey, of course, is a state of law. Turkey is a country with separate forces, which is written in the Constitution. The separation of forces is not an easy gain in human history, but an important gain. I believe all lawmakers will respect this win.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0089par0027	Mr. President, of course, I need you to take an attitude regarding a certain matter. I did not attempt to draw you into a current political debate. After his statement, I asked him if there was such a position as the Council of Presidents running the Assembly, and if you found it right. And while you have stated that you do not wish to enter into any of these discussions, you have also demonstrated the current position of the Presidential Court. That's why I'd like to thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0088par0028	Well, thank you, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0090par0029	Mr. President, may I have your word?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0088par0030	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0090par0032	Thank you. We don't know what lawmakers have said, but the authorities that will explain the views of the EC PARTY as a party are defined, and in this sense of the AK PARTY are under our guardianship of law, executive and judicial powers. Any explanation in the form of the EC will not be available today or in the future.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0091par0034	Of course, of course!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0090par0035	In addition, we do not know what those mentioned in the illustration said or in what context.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0091par0036	We know, we know.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0090par0037	As a matter of fact, Mr. Baluken here is trying to create a storm in a glass of water, but when he tries to do that, he contradicts himself. He asks, "Is Yassama connected to the AK PARTY?" He says, "We are not." Of course there are other parties here, and neither are they. We all see how the law works, and Mr. Baluken sees it every day. Mr. Baluken, is the living up to us? You know he's not connected. Then why, as if, does such a word point to a truth? Do you feel the need to drama here? What you're doing is not right. Judicial... what debates have we had about the judiciary, the opposition parties, the ruling community, the functioning of the judiciary, the decisions it has made, have been very different from the past to today. Would there be any debate, Mr. Baluken, if the judgment were under the guardianship of the AK PARTI? There is a reality that you, as a politician, already know how to live, run, judge in Turkey every day, and basically there is no union of forces. Who says what, why, that's another bet. There is no such explanation for the EC PARTY. To be honest, I find this assessment unfortunate. I wanted to present it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0092par0042	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0093par0043	Mr. President, during his assessment of the Bostanist, he made an open challenge by considering the assessments and warnings I had made on such an important matter as to storm a glass of water and to put forth a drama.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0092par0044	Mr. Baluken, this is a criticism. I'll give you my word on your position, if that's all right with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0093par0046	That's open teasing, Mr. President. I'm not a drama...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0092par0047	▪ Blowing a storm in a glass of water is a sentence...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0093par0048	No, he's dramatizing.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0092par0049	That's a criticism, Mr. Baluken. Look, I don't give a shit about bullying, I don't give a damn about any congressman, but it's a criticism. Of course I can promise you your place. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0094par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I would expect Mr. Bostanci to take your word that these used sentences are clearly wrong, and that they absolutely don't approve of such sentences as a group, and that they'll give the MPs the necessary warnings on this matter. However, instead of displaying such an attitude, Mr. Bostanci tried to present the political criticism and warnings that we had set up as if they were part of a myth here, as if they were in the attempt to depose a situation that did not exist. If Mr. Bostanci doesn't know what his own MP is saying as a vice president, if he doesn't follow public agendas about this, if he doesn't know about public opinion criticism, there's nothing I can tell him. However, I would suggest that he, as the group's vice president, in a more serious way, monitor or monitor the activities of lawmakers or the group. On the other hand, what we call separation of forces, as you just stated, is essential for the democracy of the country and for the democratic future of all of us. So, I've instructed the Parliament, who doesn't know the Constitutional Court's decisions, who instructs the judiciary. We know a lot of the saying and practice from the past.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0095par0057	I'll turn on your mic, complete.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0094par0058	I'll wrap it up. So we're not all in a position to be shocked by this situation when a new situation has arisen about AKP MPs or the AKP Group. On the contrary, since this has been carried on in a multi-system and conscious way, Parliament and the judiciary have been subjected to a conscious attempt to be dysfunctional and subject to justice, we are seriously expressing these warnings in Parliament, the address of all problems. Therefore, I would like to say that I consider this statement by Mr. Bostanci a big statement from his guilt. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0096par0061	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I told you I'd get the People's Democratic Party Group to read and process and vote. We'll continue the procedure where we left off. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Tuesday (05/04/2016), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 25 February 2016, Diyarbakır MP Deputy Chair Çağlar Demirel (number 1240 rankings) was presented by the Prime Minister's Office (17/2/2016/4), where "National Security Threatening Organization and Buildings Liaison Public Workers" was taken to the front of other proposals issued by the Prime Minister's Office (16/4) (16/4) to be presented to the General Assembly of Turkey on 5/4/2016th Tuesdays and a proposal for a meeting on the legal situation and the extent of its destruction in the field of public labour. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal and against it, I will make a pledge to two members of parliament. The first speaker in his favour is Ahmet Yıldırım, Müsh MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0097par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we've obviously been watching with evidence that social life and public working life have been under the influence of AKP power for a very long time, trying to be designed in accordance with its own political and ideological ideals. Lastly, on February 17th, it was announced that officers who would not carry water over AKP's helm would face all kinds of pressure and punishment. We would like to point out that the state, especially in the eyes of employees, has tried to use it as a force of pressure against opposing unions, by creating and evenly related trade unions, which should be at a neutral and equal distance from workers and civil servants unions, which are organized in this regard. Every day, unfortunately, society is tired of seeing a different practice, a different means of legitimization, of slipping into a despotic regime. In the private sector, as discussed earlier, in this process, which is almost a mercy-reading practice and legalized under the name of untrusted flexibility, the opposition unions and opposing public employees in the public are especially subject to pressure, exiles, arrests and dismissals. In security, we are now faced with a Turkish community structure, which is now haunted by violence that has gone beyond humanity under the name of public security. The only religion in faith is to create tools for spreading one sect's perception, to make the institution that should be a center of faith an institution of government and one human being; in health, a government that boasts about the number of patients applying to hospitals, not to prevent disease. Here, history, unfortunately, has seen a lot of despotic leaders trying to swing despotic regimes like the sword of Damocles, and they've faced a lot of guardians. Look, I want to make it very clear that we're going through the days of an example that we've come across in Nazi Germany. Here, Schmitt's particularly friendly-enemy political equation has always served: The government's duty is to decide who is the friend and who is the enemy in society. Unfortunately, the AKP is trying to use power as a key role in building the equation of chaos and violence in the face of the rhetoric and order of the stable couple today. AKP's political power, the aim of its government, is this, the equation for them: it wants to position its own political power in the face of chaos and instability as a port where people can only feel safe in its own power. In particular, the Nazis tried to try the friendly-enemy political equation of Schmitt, which the AKP had tried to give a lot of references in its time, and the President had expressed its own name. In the end, great tragedies, and with that, unfortunately, they didn't survive the fact that history went to the garbage can. Did they just go to history's garbage can? Unfortunately, they didn't stay with him, but they also answered in a way that would never be a statute of limitations. One can think of some of the words of Derrida, in the face of this political equation of Schmitt. Derrida gave examples of war against herself, what she said about immunity to herself -- the continuity of the body -- that is, to ensure the continuity of the body is only an external element, to perceive and perceive and fight against it, to ensure the continuity of its own legal order. Dear lawmakers, look, especially in public life, in working life, let's illustrate what pressure the AKP governments have developed, especially on public unions, with some examples of the self-righteous State Staff President of the Union. He was just here, and I don't know if he's here, but I'd like to share with you some of the figures of the State Chief of Staff regarding the AKP's aide union MEMUR-SEN. When was it founded, MIMUR-SEN? 1992. In the first 11 years, how many people did the MEMUR-SEN organize until the AKP came to power? He's managed to organize only 41,000 people. Imagine, in the 11 years before the AKP was in power, what was the figure of MEMUR-SEN, which had only managed to organize 41,000 public employees in Turkey? 840 grand today. What a skill! He'll direct power, he'll develop pressures through executives, he'll threaten exile, he'll fire you, he'll fire you, he'll fire you, he'll fire you, he'll arrest you, he'll arrest you, he'll put you under arrest, he'll put you under arrest, he'll torture you; what a country, that's working life, that's organizational freedom! MEMUR-SEN has organized 41,000 people in 11 years up to 2002, raising the number of members to 840,000 in the next 11 years, which is the same period after that, and we will call it freedom to organize, and we will believe it! The same thing does not take place in the same way as other public unions, KAMU-SEN and KESK, which, during the AKP administration period, were faced with the reality of losing members as a result of these pressures, especially with pressures, especially with dismissals, with major pressure. Again, look, some valuable lawmakers, some unionization rates... just came out on behalf of the AKP, talking about 4688, talking about expanding the trade union freedom zone. Let's give some numbers on labour unions: For all paid employees, the union rate in 1988 is 22.2 percent, while 5.8 per cent in 2010. What expanded union organizations! Again, the unionisation rate, 46.5% in 1988, dropped to 8 percent in 2010, while 7.8 in the private sector today dropped to 3.5. And these pressures, especially developed on KESK, have to be terminated as soon as possible, which, in effect, has become almost public working terror. We've told the governors who have been assigned to district cities in particular, and we're telling you again, they work like the governor of the AKP; the mayors of AKP have been seen as governors, district heads as governors. A governor, who went there with three signatures, began to threaten even trade unions and NGOs that were auctioning to the AKP, because a governor who went there with three signatures, as a society of Mush people, did not know that he was going there as a color, but he saw it with enemy law. Not only the unions of KESK, but the governors of the NGOs, who have been under serious pressure, making threats on other NGOs, who have been using harsh, rude, insulting rhetoric that I could never express here, but that would probably be appropriate, even in the AKP's time of power. Another issue has just been expressed about subcontractorization. Yeah, look, the Prime Minister at the group meeting said in the name of doing a political show: we're putting in 700,000 subcontractors. Then the Minister of Labour and Social Security says something, the Minister of Finance says something, rebuts the Prime Minister. You'd think 700,000 workers would have the same rights as the staff worker at the same institution where they work as subcontractors. It's not right. It's not right. Look, my own election circle is a sugar factory, a public factory. Let's just say that there are two times more subcontractors in this public factory than there are staffed workers, and there are still subcontractors out there for over 30 years. It reduces public production, and for both employees and employers, both public and laborers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we are faced with a reality that has revealed very unhealthy consequences. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0098par0097	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0099par0099	Mr. President, for the record... Mr. Speaker says the governors are governors of the AK PARTY, and I refuse.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0100par0101	Whose governor is it, then?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0099par0102	Neither the governors nor the governors are in any way the governors of the AK PARTY are the governors of the AK.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0101par0103	They work like mayors.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0099par0104	These people, in the usual way of the state, are growing, subjecting, and performing their duties within the bureaucracy of property officials.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0102par0105	Co-Chairs!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0099par0106	There may be criticism of the work of bureaucrats, but it's not criticism, it's not real. On the other hand, the statement on the recruitment of subcontractors was a commitment by the EC PARTY, and in this framework, the Prime Minister made this statement in order to fulfill our commitment. It's unfortunate to describe it as a political show. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0103par0109	It's in the transcripts. Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Genghis Aydoğdu, Aksaray MP. Here you go, Mr. Moondog. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0104par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have received a pledge from the People's Democratic Party regarding the motion issued by the People's Democratic Party to contact with the Organization and Buildings that threatens national security. Dear friends, there are things that we think about very little, we talk about, we know very well, but we neglect to go down to the foundations from time to time, where we forget the original purpose, the purpose, the beginning point, and one of them is the state. We talk a lot, we call the government everywhere, we complain to the government about everything; when we're in trouble, when we're in trouble, we have government matters or demands for the government, but we think very little of the government, or we talk like an ideology. I think we should talk about the government today as if it were a technical matter.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0105par0119	That's something the AKP has never done. I mean, it's good, it's positive, it's beautiful. I appreciate it.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0104par0120	There's an Austrian thinker named Peter Drucker. He says: "Let's keep our eyes on the basics in the days of Fettem. " Similarly, in the years when Ahmed Naim Hoxha - Allah has mercy on us - in the founding years of the republic, when we were thinking about the state, he says: "I've discovered instead of the state, so rather than looking at the new, let's look at the beginnings." In our culture, it's become a pattern: it's called a religious state, a property. It's a great expression, which gives both the philosophy of the state and its association with humans and its people. In fact, there have been similar thoughts and developments in the West. There's French Tocqueville, an aristocrat from Normandy. It says: "The state is the art of gathering together, the art of gathering people together. " It is that simple. It's a very technical thing: people come together, and the government is the result of this reunion. Security is reason number one. In the search that begins with this need for security, we call it a picture of a social understanding. It's basically an idea, it's a assumption, it's what we call a government, and it's actually the name of our relationship. The part that we're complaining about is mostly the part that serves the public after he's organized and shown up, which is the red tape part. What we beat up today is almost all of what we're angry about, the technical aspect of the state that serves the public, the bureaucratic aspect of the state. I mean, if we describe the state as the gathering of people, friends, friends, families, cities, citizens, all of this is in the government. It's a government thing to be a nation. In this regard, the state is the way the nations express themselves. The nations do a lot of things, they build cities, they build civilizations, art works, literature, poetry, architecture... the most recent, most advanced state of all, the arts of nations, the gathering of human communities. I mean, societies express themselves with their government. Friends, after World War I, what we had left of the Ottomans, Muslim-gayrimal, we called it the Republic of Turkey, as much as we could as we could as a state, we said, "Turkish nation," we came out of the Republic of Turkey. Today, we, the world stage of the people who live in this geography, the name of our appearance on the world stage is the Republic of Turkey, and that is the refuge for many of us, for many of the people around us, the port of refuge, the place of trust, the name of trust. We look at the world from here. We all agree on these abstract lines in the living room, we get along very easily, but there are problems when we go to the field of these abstract lines that we can easily agree on. They also move public employees into the field, statesmen, bureaucrats, politicians, public staff, into the field. This reminds public employees from time to time of the state, reminding them of the institutional agreement, reminding them of why this state was founded. We can consider the Prime Minister's generalization in this framework, my dear friends. What does the Prime Minister's Office say: none of the rights in the Constitution, including the right to enter the public service, cannot be used in the form of activities aimed at disrupting the state's non-divisible integrity and eliminating the human rights-based legal state. What does he propose about those involved in such activities: that the public employees in such activities -- as I am reading -- will not recommend any new legislation -- will be carried out by administrative authorities. In terms of criminal verbs, the situation will be immediately reported to the judicial authorities. So in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey's laws, the Prime Minister's office is making a reminder. Our friend before me, and none of the alleged allegations in this motion, is incompatible with that sentence. Oh, I don't know what the purpose of a motion like this here or here might be, but we can make these predictions, or what's it like when we look at the current situation in Turkey? In many parts of our country today, the state operates with its laws and its everything, but in some of our municipalities, in some of our country's cities, city vehicles work directly under the organisation that wages war against the people who voted for the mayor, digs holes, and in cooperation with the organisation, makes the streets, cities uninhabitable. I don't know if there's a reason for this disease.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0106par0127	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0104par0128	But one thing I do know is that governments always renew their commitments to their employees in the context of their organization. Because what we call a state, above all, is often, every day, a renovated process, unlike the West. We think of the state as the way people express themselves in the form of the nation, and we think of it as a constant renewal of the whole nation's participation. And I think of it as a reminder of how to make this public order work in this construction. Therefore, I respectfully submit that we will vote against the motion.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0107par0131	Thank you. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Engin Özkoc is a Sakarya MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0108par0136	Mr. President, we've heard the speakers talking about a motion. First of all, I, God, wondered what they were going to bring up, what they were going to bring up. The motion is related to a summary of a sentence published by Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, the Prime Minister. What does it say in the district? The general law states that the state is actively conducting its fight against illegal structures under the legal outlook. It continues: "They must act faithfully on the constitution and on the law, not to undermine their trust in themselves by sticking to the principles of neutrality and equality. In this framework, public employees cannot participate in or abetting any action, grouping, or association that operates in the way the law considers a crime. Dear friends, do the law on officers say that's against it? Does the current legal system say something different? No, he's not. What's he saying? But, it gives another authority, it says, that those who are associated with illegal activities under terrorist organizations or legal appearances and who are in the presence of action, those who act under the orders and instructions of these organisations and structures, let their chiefs report these officers, and report them. Now I'm talking to you about something else: it's starting with the Prime Minister's speech, starting with the trigger. ▪ Legally proven public employees who support terrorism will be cut off from public relations. ▪ What's stopping you? Nothing's stopping it. If this country's source is being used for terrorist organizations, if it is being directly aided, or if it is being indirectly silenced by the parallel gang, any action will be carried out against public personnel. It is the government at that time that aided and abetted the parallel structure, including the Prime Minister and his government at the time, and is the Prime Minister of the government at the time. He himself used the following expressions regarding parallel structure, and to the attention of the Turkish nation, he said: "What more did you ask of me, and I did not?" In the cases of the sledgehammer and the Ergenekon case, it is very clear that I am behind the Prime Minister of today's day, about a prosecutor who is being sought around the world as the prosecutor of the parallel structure today. Look, I'm the prosecutor of the Ergenekon case on July 15, 2008. A year later, from the same council bench, there are extremely heavy, grave allegations, there are accusations against our Constitution, against our laws. We have a legal system that pursues these allegations, trying to shed light on these allegations. Let him judge, let the law work, let the white and the black come out, he says. Who said that? Prime Minister of the government at the time, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Whose path does it lead? The search for parallel structure opens the way for judges and prosecutors who were prosecutors at the time. Who was an accessory? The Prime Minister and Government of the Republic of Turkey at the time have been an accessory. Are you looking for a criminal? Are you looking for an officer for this? Then the place you're looking for is not far, so if you look inside yourself, you'll see the culprit very clearly. My dear friends, I'm asking you now: a week before the Prime Minister's sentence was published, the Prime Minister said in his group speech, I take refuge in the armor of 6657, we break it, we drill it. Will the Republic of Turkey be broken by a law-funded suit of armor in the state of law? I'm asking. In our legal government, without a verdict on officers, are they being processed by public knowledge? I'm asking. The administrative procedures for civil servants are clearly defined in Article 125 of the State Officers Act. How are you going to conduct an administrative procedure outside of this framework based on what, on whom? I'm asking. What's a legal-looking illegal structure? I'm asking. For example, the Justice and Development Party is a legal party. Can someone claim that the Justice and Development Party is a legal-looking illegal structure? Can he conduct an administrative procedure on the officers? Tell me if he can, make it clear, and we'll know. What organizations, associations, foundations are considered legal-looking illegal structures? Do you have such a list? If so, why isn't it fulfilled? Otherwise, who's capable of ruling a legal-looking illegal structure outside a legal state? We want to know as members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Who, who is authorized to consider a legal structure illegal without a court order, and who is authorized to plead guilty to those in a relationship? What legal norms do the public have to deal with legal-looking illegal structures, but to conduct such a hunt through officers? Representatives of the esteemed Turkish Grand National Assembly, we have 3.5 million people in public. Yesterday, when you said that you, the nation of Turkey, and the Turkish nation, and you said that we are behind the judiciary and the law. When you said that, in fact, you were behind a criminal organization, you were behind a criminal organization today, yes, we did, we gave up that. If you leave it to the chiefs of officers and their superiors, who are not certain what political views they are, who will protect the officers and innocent people from your understanding of this law, the three million officers working in Turkey from now on? You branded people as reasonable suspects, and then you judged them, and they were acquitted, and they're wanted as criminals for branding and judging. Now, I'm going to put an end to what you're clearly saying. The Republican People's Party has nothing to do with terrorism. The Justice and Development Party is the reason why terrorism has come to today's construction. You are either on our side or you are on the side of terrorism. In response to your word, we are not on your side, nor are we on the side of terrorism, we are on the side of the state and nation of the Republic of Turkey. One day you'll realize that, too, and you'll be judged by the great Turkish justice. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0109par0146	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0110par0147	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0109par0148	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0110par0149	In his speech, Mr. Ozkoc made an open challenge by saying that he was aiding and abetting the parallel structure. In this frame, I want words based on 69.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0109par0150	He made a mockery of the government.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0110par0151	To the AK PARTY, also to our group.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0109par0152	Yes, well, here you are, Mr. Botanci. I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0111par0154	Mr. President, we agree, it's not teasing.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0109par0155	Now, sir, in the teasing... Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0112par0159	Mr. President, the Prime Minister's Office has a motto, warning public officials that terrorists in the modern world are also trying to use legitimate means as they try to conduct water under the radar...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0113par0160	Thanks to you!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0112par0161	...don't draw any attention to it. The judiciary is clear against all actions and procedures of the administration, Article 125 of the Constitution. Therefore, while the public authorities that carry out the requirements for the generalisation cause them, let us first see that the legal path towards these administrative procedures is clear as we take an attitude toward concerned public officials. Therefore, there is a grave situation, a law-enforcement initiative, a normal, legitimate business in its own way. On the other hand, about this parallel structure thing. The environment we call parallel structure was a social and economic environment that operates in the usual ways and methods until 2010, 2011, with that kind of image in the public, which is essentially an image in this framework. In particular, however, with initiatives towards the Undersecretary of the MIT, the 17-25 December coup attempt revealed that these were used as an intermediary organisation for outside-related ruling relations in Turkey. The fact that the EC PARTY has taken a stand and is opposed is an objection to an illegitimate enterprise -- entirely based on law. The position of the EC PARTY is clear, when it seems legitimate, when it's accepted, when the image is so, there's no problem, there's no problem, there's an attitude when it takes a coup attempt. You know what the real problem is? With this coup attempt in the open, they're the ones who have to pay attention to the parallel structure and then go in arm to be hostile to the AK PARTY. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0114par0165	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0115par0166	Mr. Bostanci, I'm the prosecutor of that case. He had a Prime Minister who said that this country had a Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0116par0167	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0114par0168	Mr. Ozkoç, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0116par0169	Sir, in his last sentence, the terrorist organization of the parallel structure, referring to the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0117par0170	Did he take it personally?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0116par0171	He said they entered arm in arm by means of an organization they called it.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0118par0172	Mr. Ozkoc, Mr. Bostanci...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0117par0173	I didn't mention a name.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0118par0174	...who entered arm in arm and arm in parallel in its statement, you refer to it as the People's Party of the Republic. You interpret it as the People's Party.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0119par0175	He answered me at once.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0118par0176	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch. I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0120par0178	It's also a confession.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0121par0180	Guys, how right he was, actually, the Deputy Director of the Group, so I don't even have to get up here and talk. It says that the Deputy Director of the Justice and Development Party: when they were doing our jobs, they were very legitimate in doing ours, when they touched our veins on December 17-25, that's when they lost their legitimacy. It's so clear and clear. And for that, I thank him in your presence. That's one. Two: until then, we were their protectors, of course, but then we couldn't get thirsty because they touched our veins, they had to expose everything we did; they knew best because we were in touch with them. You don't know, they knew, we were in touch with them, they told him best. That's why -- in parallel -- I'm behind this prosecutor, I'm with this prosecutor. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan was behind him when he was legitimate, and he was doing what his government wanted him to do, and today, when they didn't consider it legitimate, the end of the period is so clear and clear. Now, about us. We don't go arm in arm with parallel structures or terrorist organizations. At the Habur Border Gate, the members of the terrorist organizations that you have seated the public prosecutor and the judge and recruited with the Kalashnikovs are killing our soldiers, and you are not going to be able to lift your head. Who's arm in arm? People know about you and we know about you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0122par0184	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0123par0186	Mr. Ozkoc has completely distorted my speech in a way that I didn't say, that I didn't mean, that was a very special effort to make it understood, and that was a little intentional. It's an open taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0122par0187	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please use your right to answer in a manner that does not challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0123par0191	Mr. President, dear friends, Parliament is a place where the criticism should be based on power, if it is to be given a good understanding of what the opposition is saying and to bring criticism. I hope only Mr. Engin understands what they're saying here, the other respected MPs of the CHP, in their own more legitimate way -- clear, understandable, understandable, and able to understand what they're talking about, and they're responding in that frame. I think it's unique to Engin Bey for now. On the other hand, what I'm saying is that the parallel organization was good for us, and when it didn't work for us, we called it poop. No, I mentioned that these people did not have an impression of their activities in social and political circles until 2011, 2012, and that they did not have an attempt to legitimize their legitimacy.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0124par0193	So you've been cheated. You've been tricked, so you've been deceived.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0123par0194	After that, the coup attempt took place on the same grounds as the Republican People's Party on December 17th-25th.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0124par0195	You've been deceived, as always.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0123par0196	I told him there was an external coup attempt on the democratic system where he fought for power, and the public applied for renaissance and owed its legitimacy. It has nothing to do with whether it works for us or not, which is relevant to all of us. Do you want an outside intervention to transform power relations and produce different political paintings outside the public's consent? I'm sure the precious CHP MPs wouldn't want that either, but that's what the parallel gang was trying to do in 2013. Our objection is here, and we will always continue to object. He immediately took the matter to Habur, Mr. Speaker. As Nasrettin Hoxha said, let's look for the needle here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0125par0200	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0126par0202	Sir, for the record, I'm going to file a report. The Justice and Development Party produces a myth of deception when it suits it or doesn't, and it says: "One day the parallel structure deceived us, one day the PKK deceived us. " So my advice to them is that the country can't be managed and you can't get rid of it. They're so naive, they don't understand anything. And suddenly, when everything is bright, the parallel structure deceives them, one day the PKK deceives them. So, how are you guys gonna run the country like this?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0127par0204	What should we do, leave Turkey and go to someone else's hands?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0126par0205	I mean, the Republican People's Party would never fall for that. And you guys, give up this good-boy game, it doesn't suit you. A deluded power cannot carry this Turkey, it can only be carried by an objective minister who knows the facts. It's obvious that you can't be in power.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0128par0207	Your level is clear.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0129par0208	Thank you, Mr. Sky, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0130par0209	It's not Levent Bey and his reasoning that will carry Turkey; it's the AK PARTY that decides for all of us; that's why it's power.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0129par0214	Hüseyin Bürge, İstanbul MP against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Burge. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0131par0218	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group, on behalf of our esteemed MPs, our beloved nation, the HDP group proposal. I hereby salute the High Council. I'm sending greetings and prayers to our security forces who are fighting against the Prime Ministerial General, who are threatening national security and structures, and who are fighting against the Prime Minister's Generalship on behalf of the Prime Minister's Office, but who are first on my word against terrorists and terrorists, against the terror groups of Diyarbakır, Şırnak, and all of our provinces. Also, I wish to express my gratitude to all our fellow martyrs who drink the witness, who fight for the cause of the country, the people, the land, the flag, and all our fellow martyrs, God's mercy and condolences to their relatives. As I speak at every opportunity, I feel it is not fair to speak to the governor of the state, who has been appointed as the three signatures, who have despised even three signatures of the state: the elected minister's signature, the elected prime minister's signature, the elected president's signature, the elected president's signature, and the governors, who have been appointed by the elected president's signature, to speak to the governors, the governors. Honourable MPs, our dear nation, we know that while our state continues to fight armed war against terrorist organizations, they continue to work meticulously to destroy the activities of the state. Here's the Prime Minister's Office on National Security Threats and Organizations and Buildings 2016/4, and the Office on Public Workers of Public Affairs is an important provision for the operations necessary for public employees who take advantage of the state's benefits, but betray the country and its people. That's right. What the speaker means is, in a sense, a summary of 657. Now, it is important to ask, which, according to the general order, is bothering you, who is associated with illegal activities under terrorist organizations or within an action union? Where are you in this, acting on orders and instructions from these organisations and structures? ▪ Where are you in helping these organizations and structures? ▪ The administrative procedures for public employees who use or use public resources to support these organisations and structures, preventing the fight against these organisations or structures, will be carried out immediately by the authorities within the framework of the legislation on the propaganda of these organisations or structures. In terms of criminal verbs, the situation will be immediately reported to the judicial authorities. In addition, the above issues will be carefully applied in accordance with the relevant legislation on employees employed by the tender for service based on employee work. Respected lawmakers, our dear nation, when we look at the generality, there is no substance that will disturb anyone who is in favor of peace and brotherhood, depending on the state and its nation. It will surely disturb some public workers, citizens, citizens, roads, water, sewers, and other social services in the region who have behind them terrorist organisations, mayors who spend their resources on barricades against the state, defaming their government by taking a salary from the state, and spreading terror organization propaganda. And he's aware of that, our dear nation and us. I'd like to share with you an example of our Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu's speech in order to better understand the matter. Almost all of Mardin Metropolitan Municipality's budget is covered by the central budget. Turkey averages 66.7 per cent, while Mardin Metropolitan is 96.7 per cent. As your brother, who has been mayor for many years at Bayrampaşa, I understand how the budget is being spent because when I look at the average in Turkey, 11.7 per cent of the budget the municipalities spend on staff is 7.7% of the investments made. The question comes to mind: For what reason does a municipal staff who wait almost half the budget leave a budget so high? For whom are these budgets spent, in what service, and where are they spent? The answer to these questions is what has actually been happening in the east and southeast for months. There are municipalities, mayors, mayors, mayors, people, towns, towns, Ühr-ul trustees who should be serving citizens by making roads, water, sewers in Mardin, Şırnak, Şırnak, Cizre, Cizre, Turkey, Diyarbakır, Diyarbakır, Diyarbakır, Diyarbakır, Diyarbakır, Diyarbakır, Diyarbakır, Diyarbakır, parliament members and staff are busy making barricades, which can facilitate the lives of people who are safe from themselves, who can find a way to live in prosperity and happiness, the presence and the existence of our government and the safety of our security forces. Again, these municipalities and organisations supported by their employees target ambulances in a rare way, even in a war environment. We understand that for the first time our Ministry of Health has sent armored ambulances to those areas in literature. At the same time, armored ambulances now carry wounded in the area, while armoured business machines are busy removing the holes and barricades -- unfortunately, which the municipalities have opened. Respected lawmakers, different political groups and organisations in our country are trying to disturb the peace of our citizens and cover up all the crimes they've committed by referring to the undistributable integrity of the state by speaking of rhetorics such as so-called democracy and freedom. The EC PARTY should not be forgotten that the PKK, DHKP-C, which subcontracts the citizens' peace and peace, will continue and continue its fight against the parallel structures and extensions of the citizens. While our state will continue to fight these organisations, it will continue to reassert our cities in accordance with the historical and social fabric of Diyarbakir, Mardin and other cities, which are the heritage of our ancient civilisation, starting with Sur. I want to make it clear that we, all of our MPs, as elected members, are here to serve the cause of our nation, our nation. All the mayors, in Turkey -- regardless of the party -- are getting votes from our beloved nation, where in the world would the government allow this to happen when it is aimed at sweeping roads, cleaning roads, repairing its network, and doing the exact opposite of that in the Southeastern part of the world? It means that we will never allow it, that we will not give it, that we will address these problems that hurt our beloved nation, and that the PKK's terrorist organization's supporters again with respect and love in your presence. With all due respect.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0132par0230	Thank you, Mr. Burge.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0133par0231	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0132par0232	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0133par0233	In his speech, he teased me with a statement that what I said specifically about the appointed ones was not my place. I'd like a quote from the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0132par0234	Here you go, Mr. Lightning, for two minutes, I give you my word. Please, don't challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0133par0238	Mr. Orator, first of all, let me read you some sentences, and if you'd like, I'd like to give you a place and date, see if you recognize any of these phrases.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0134par0239	You start with a bow.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0133par0240	We do not oppress the chosen ones. We're gonna kick Oligarchic bureaucracy's ass. The appointees will know their place...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0135par0241	What are you, a punk? Are you a punk?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0133par0242	Whose sentences are these, sir?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0136par0243	Were you chosen to dig a hole or to dig a hole?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0133par0244	Those three signatures show the steepness of oligarchic bureaucracy to the people of the region. Again, they're going to run enemy law, not run it.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0137par0245	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0133par0246	Decent governors, of course, came in with three signatures, and those of whom you count the sequenced hierarchy of three signatures, used those sentences.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0138par0247	If he's working like a mountain crew, he can't be chosen at all. It won't work like a mountain crew.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0133par0248	The illegal structures that you're referring to in your sentences, the illegal-looking structures -- anyone who understands a little bit of political life -- seem to know a little bit about legal-looking illegal structures -- are cults, congregations. Look, you're talking about what more legal-looking illegal structures do in political life. Tekke and zakat. That's how it's done in the entire political, historical process. The other thing is, look, I'll tell you about these phrases and laws. By subjecting the definition of a terrorist organization, you can publish and make laws. The moment you fall from power, the members of the oligarchic bureaucracy, which you have appointed without touching a sentence, a word, a comma, and a sentence of those sentences and laws, will be greatly rewarded. Such antidemocratic regulations and laws return and shoot members of the oligarchic bureaucracy you appointed. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0139par0253	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0140par0254	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0141par0255	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0139par0256	Mr. Bostanci, I'll listen. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0142par0258	Mr. Orator has just made several attempts on our group during his speech. Are you uncomfortable with our fight against illegal structures that appear to be legal?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0143par0259	He answered.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0139par0260	Here you go, Mr. Baluken. I promise you for two minutes. Please, don't challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0144par0264	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to make some statements to contribute a little bit to the issues that our congressman just explained. Now, these phrases that you're making, you're walking arm in arm the day after tomorrow, and they're probably very likely to deceive you tomorrow, but when they add the word "irtica," you know very well what can happen from your recent memory because you're objectively not defined as a terrorist organization or a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0145par0267	I do.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0144par0268	When you meet with any force -- and the deputy leader of the group has confessed from here -- you see it as a force to go arm in arm, you see it as a life-threatening lamb wrap, but when that intersecting period begins, you see it as a parallel structure (e.g. terrorist group).
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0146par0269	What time is it? Underline that period. What period is that? What do you mean?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0144par0270	Behold the condition of Ilker Basbug and Fethullah Gulen. When you were in arms with Fethullah Gulen, you called someone who was the Chief of Staff in this country a terrorist, the director of the terrorist organization. But when the partnership with Fethullah Gulen had ended, suddenly your Deputy Prime Minister came out and said there was a plot against the national army. Ilker Basbug has been extradited, and you have also branded Fethullah Gulen as a terrorist. (Applause from HDP rows) What definition will this community, this people, trust?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0146par0271	He does, that's why we're in power.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0144par0272	On the other hand, his words about Mardin City Hall are all lies. I'm teasing you, look, I'm picking on you. ▪ All 66 per cent of the costs of staff are lies, not 30 per cent. The data you received and the Prime Minister said included salaries that were not paid by Mardin Municipality of AKP, which is why it is. Remember, even the mayor's seat was impounded while Mardin City was in the AKP. It's a little embarrassing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] First, if you're talking about a municipality, look at the practice in your time, look at the situation now, and speak accordingly. The situation in Mardin City must also be determined and registered in the inspector reports sent by the Ministry of Interior. Every time you look at those reports, I say you can see the truth. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0147par0277	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0148par0279	Mr. Baluken said in his speech that we consider the terrorist organization our partner, that I confessed. It's an open taunt. I want words according to 60.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0147par0280	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci. Please, I'm asking you, don't make a fuss.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0148par0283	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, when Mr. Yıldırım is speaking here, they run enemy law on the actions of governors. That's out of the question. The governors are there working for the welfare and peace of the people, and the people are actually very happy about it. Of course, there are some who don't like it, the terrorist organization and the allies of the terrorist organization. Besides, even against them, it's not enemy law, it's criminal law. In order to make the situation more dire, there is no political consequence to go into a pointless and unresponsive effort in the public, to refer the non-realist to imaginary words. The public has shown their attitude, and they will continue to put it in. On the other hand, Mr. Baluken, I think he understands exactly what I'm saying, but he's ignoring it, and it's not the art of experimentation, Mr. Baluken; it's the direct twist. I said, as a parallel organization, that those called parallel environments were perceived as a legitimate environment, in the eyes of law, in the eyes of society, in the eyes of the people, before they began a plot against political power, a coup attempt. But as a perpetrator, a perpetrator of the coup attempt, they stepped in as a perpetrator interfering with the power relations in Turkey, and I said we were against it. This does not concern the EC PARTY alone; it concerns everyone involved in the fight against power in legitimate ways, and it concerns you, and it concerns us, and it concerns all of us. So it's a result for all of us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The AK PARTY did not deal with me with understanding. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0149par0290	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0150par0291	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0149par0292	Mr. Akçay is demanding a statement. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0151par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. This debate was published on February 17th, and on February 17th, I spoke on this stand again, and I expressed some stimuli and remarkable issues about it. First of all, I said, this is a generalization that ignores the hierarchy of rules and shows an administrative weakness. When the door is open, you can't enter through the chimney, which means that the Republic of Turkey has laws in effect, especially in the Constitution, which can lead to administrative differences, such as those who govern the state, politicians, public rulers, and some of the statements that will go where you draw them, as well as the title, which can lead to different administrative errors. That's because I said, "Aggression." It's because the current government is reacting in a daily manner because it has no anti-terrorism policy. On March 22nd, I want the government and the Justice and Development Party to read carefully over the proposals of Mr. State Bahlı, our leader of the National Movement Party, to fight terrorism. And as far as the headlines are concerned, the vision of counterterrorism that it lacks should be developed, there should be a concept of counterterrorism -- it shows that there are no such things -- and the anti-terrorism strategy should be created...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0152par0300	Please complete, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0151par0301	I'm completing it, Mr. President. In this fight against terrorism, we must have plans and programmes to enlighten our nation, to inform the public, and in the fight against terrorists, tactical, training and execution programmes should be implemented, and the anti-terrorism promotion should be initiated. Even Mr. President says that information on terrorism in and abroad is wrong. Of course, up until six months or seven months ago, even the top executives in the state had no concept of terrorism, no concept of terrorism, no concept of fighting terrorists, and now they're trying to redefine terrorism. Yeah, well, the changes to this terrorism have been in the Justice and Development Party's 14-year cycle, so they're still confused, so they need to clear that up.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0152par0303	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0153par0305	Mr. President, speaking just now, Mr. Bostanci says that I am twisting and twisting his words...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0152par0306	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0153par0310	Thank you, Mr. President. So I said that every statement made by the AKP authorities, including Mr. Bostanci, was a confession to be made in front of them in front of history, and now I'm saying the same thing. You're saying there's a terrorist organization called the parallel structure, with your own hands. So, who raised this terrorist organization? Who's supporting you? Who's making it institutionalized inside the government? If it's trouble in this country, who's causing it? What did they want in this country? Didn't you say? Aren't you the one who called them the parcel? Weren't you the one who went to Pennsylvania in traffic and kissed his hand? So even at this time, we know that countless MPs have traveled to Pennsylvania more than the palace.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0154par0312	Some of you have gone, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0153par0313	Well, now, this is all a crime of aiding and abetting terrorism, raising a terrorist organization. So you admit it in front of history. He's going to the House reports. So there's nothing we've distorted. We say be consistent. Don't deny what you said yesterday, don't try to take it to a different point to evaluate what you just said today. It's about everything. So now, I'm going into ISIS, there's no time. Look, when you crossed ISIS, it was all a life of lamb.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0155par0314	Angry kids...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0153par0315	But when there was some conflict of interest about ISIS, the world states began to call ISIS the terrorist organization, and then you came forward and said ISIS to the terrorist group, but now, just as on the stand, the world is laughing at your assessment. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0156par0318	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0157par0319	Turkey has never been surrounded by a living lamb, side by side with ISIS.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0153par0320	AKP, AKP.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0157par0321	Mr. Baluken is delusional, he's delusional.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0158par0322	Thank you, Mr... I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0159par0327	Mr. President, just a moment, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0158par0328	I voted, Mr. Baluken. All those in favor... those who don't... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0159par0330	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group has just expressed my imagination about the partnership with ISIS. I consider that an open taunt. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0158par0331	Mr. Baluken, if you're referring to the word "dream" as teasing...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0159par0332	Well, in that case, let me put it on the record.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0158par0333	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0159par0334	I'm not dreaming. There's solid information and data on this matter that's been filed into the House reports. Mr. Economy Minister, with his statement to Parliamentary reports from the Minister of Economy in this cabinet, it is clear that there was a trade between Turkey and ISIS, during the AKP government, in 2014, 2015, at Tel Abyad and Akçakale Border Gate, and at Cerablus Border Gate, over $7m in exports. It's also in the House transcripts. There's no need to set up countless data. It's just that the data I'm talking about is a clear historical evidence of the AKP and ISIS partnership.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0158par0335	It's in the transcripts, thank you, Mr. Baluken. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting on Tuesday/4/2016 (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Interior Charter. Kayseri MP Cetin Arık and his friends proposed a parliamentary investigation on 24/03/2016, given to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in order to fully investigate what autism, symptoms and treatment is in our country (386 rows). lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read in the 5/4/2016-day jointly and held in the same dated combination of its talks. On the Republican People's Party Group proposal, I will make a pledge to four members of parliament, two against each other. The first speaker is Cetin Arik, Kayseri MP. Here you go, Mr. Arik. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0160par0351	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the High Council with respect and love. You know, April 2nd was World Autism Awareness Day. April is the World Autism Awareness Month. Dear lawmakers, autism is a congenital and the symptoms are a neuro-developmental disorder that emerges in the first three years of life. For today, the exact cause of autism is unknown. Besides, there are strong indications that autism spectrum disorder has genetic foundations. However, autism is thought to be caused by a large number of genes, not just one gene, and these genes have yet to be found. It is also said that factors such as heavy metals, industrial waste, pollution, toxins can also cause autism. However, these are not yet proven. Dear lawmakers, the prevalence of autism is increasing at an alarming rate. In 1985, he received a diagnosis of autism from every 2,500 children, while today he is diagnosed with 1. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, one of the world's largest and most respected institutions, announced that in the past few weeks, half of the children -- every two children -- could be born autismous. Yeah, you didn't hear wrong, ten years from now, one of every two children will be born with autism. The painting is really creepy. Dear lawmakers, why can't we see these kids if one of 68 children is born with autism and one child is diagnosed with autism every 20 minutes? Where are those kids? I just want to say, without further ado, that they're home. Dear lawmakers can't get these kids out unless the family has to, and if they do, they try not to show up. And why is that? Why are these children living in prison in their homes, whose biggest medicine is to be with those of their natural age? I'll tell you why: Society considers these children to be children who have not been properly disciplined by their parents, judging, excluding their families and these children because they don't know what autism is. Seven out of ten people in Turkey are unaware of autism. Dear lawmakers, if you have a child with autism, you can't go out alone with your child. You can't sit in a place and eat without attracting attention for a long time. Forget theaters, movies, operas, concerts and so on. If you have such a special child, forget about fellow relatives, because the vast majority of you will say that you have failed to control your child, and your already exhausted state of mind will end even more. Some of them will keep an eye on your kid because he'll spill the goods, and some of them will look at your kid like an alien, contagious plague. These special kids have a very emotional sense. These meaningless glances will only make them more anxious, more uncomfortable, and more violent. Here are the families who know all this, and they're going to spend time in the house with their children. For him, autism means loneliness, autism means desperation, autism means being trapped in the house. Dear lawmakers, if you have such a special child, it will be your worst nightmare in the school age, because you will not find a kindergarten or kindergarten to accept it, or when the child reaches the elementary school age, the teacher or principal will say, "We do not have a teacher to teach your child at this school." In return, your child needs to be taught to boil. It is our right that our child should receive education. You will resist, and you will force him to accept it. But this time, the parents of your child's class are in a hurry, and how can my child be found in the same class as a child with autism? The idea that their children will be emotionally affected, that the levels of success will be reduced, backstage, and the children with autism will be expelled from school. These parents don't know what autism is; they don't know that there are thousands of autism geniuses like Edison, Beethoven, Einstein. Now maybe these special kids can be locked up in their homes. Will these special children, whose number will be 50 percent, be imprisoned in the house when the day comes? Dear lawmakers, according to the population projection from the frequency of sightings of autism, we know that about 352,000 children and young people with autism in our country are waiting to take advantage of education, health and social services in the 0-18-year-old group. In our country, the number of children with autism that can get into school and have access to education is only 26,586, which is two hours a week. However, scientific studies show that about 50 percent of children who are highly educated in early diagnosis and proper education can control the symptoms of autism, improve and become no different from their peers when they reach puberty. It is our duty to bring these children into society. One of the reasons why our country is not at the desired time in its human development index is that education and health care for disabled persons are still not presented with equal opportunities. Dear lawmakers, education is the only cure for autism. In order for education to be effective, it has to start at an early age, be very busy, and be given without interruption. Children with autism can survive at least 40 hours of training a week. In our country, there are only two hours of training per week. And yet, in our country, there are neither teachers nor qualified schools to teach these children enough, nor will there be enough government aid to provide this education. One of the most important problems in our country for the education of children with autism is the lack of a tutor and the lack of faculty to train these teachers. There are still 7,000 special training teachers short, and it is vital to provide educational institutions with all the support and encouragement to close this gap. Dear lawmakers, when normal education doesn't even work without the support of the school, is it the right time for special children to study only for two hours a week? I appeal to your consciences. We have a foundation that works for children with autism who recently sent us a box to all the MPs in Congress. There was a message in the box from the children and this tie you saw on me. These children asked us to announce their voices, saying, "Will you be my sun?" We have to listen to our children's wishes because they are our future. I know that any investment we invest in these kids will come back to us as healthy and happy children and families. See, valued lawmakers, divorce rates in families with children who are diagnosed with autism are around 80 percent. However, the situation of children with autism and their families, when they are unable to benefit from their education, has grown to be inextricable by growing up to be a problem. The biggest concern for children with autism is what happens to their children after themselves. The fact that children with autism have to live dependent on their families and the state will bring heavy economic problems for their families and for the state. In developed countries, for example, in the United States, it is stated that an autismist individual costs the state a lifetime of about $3 million. In addition, research has determined that each dollar spent on vocational rehabilitation returns to society at $16. Therefore, it is a very important issue for both families and society to ensure that autistic individuals participate more independently in social life. I know there's a much more promising future for children and families with autism waiting for us. Today, I want to thank you all on behalf of four and a half million family members who have been affected by this situation in our country for allowing you to be the voice of autistic families. April, the month of autism awareness. I hope there'll be a month of work where we can give good news to the families of autistic individuals. I'll be the sun of these children, and I'm excited to hear you say it. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0161par0376	Thank you, Mr. Arik. The Republican People's Party Group's proposal against Necdet Ünüvar, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Unüvar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0162par0381	Mr. Necdet, we're waiting for backup.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0163par0382	I'll support that. Now we'll see if you'll back me up on what I'm saying. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group against the CHP group's proposal to open a parliamentary investigation into autism. I salute the High Council. Autism is a disorder, a developmental, genetic-based, complex neurological disorder. They, indeed, know that God is gracious and an individual. We're all supposed to protect them, protect them, and we need to treat them with love. I'll talk about it as soon as we can, but before I do, I'd especially like to start by saying that I'm looking for support from the CHP Group. Dear friends, I've been a congressman for nine years, this fourth term, serving in Parliament. We're standing here, we're talking, the presidents are giving group talks. While we're doing these conversations, we actually have three of our contacts -- one of our listening deputies, one of them listening, some of them not listening; one of them watching us on TV, and one of our citizens watching us, but there's one other thing that we have to do here, which is to keep our fellow clerks in custody. History is basically recording our conversations. Maybe all of these conversations are very, very important, and the MPs who listen are important, and the citizens who watch are important, but most importantly, these friends who have taken hold of history. In the future, researchers will look at our conversations, or if they're interested in us, they'll look at our conversations, they'll wonder, they'll look at what's in the transcripts, but there are talks in history that when they actually see them, they'll embarrass their children, their relatives, their grandchildren, or those who love them. I, unfortunately, witnessed such a conversation today. Republican People's Party's President, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, has given a speech that I'm deeply sorry to follow, and today his wife will follow with great sadness when her grandchildren read it. He gave a speech to our Minister of Family and Social Policy that I'd be more than happy to repeat here. I took it with great sadness that the level was really so low. He's been a bureaucrat for about six or seven years, and he's been president of a major opposition party -- very important. He used phrases that would never, ever suit a chaste woman.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0164par0388	Tell him to apologize, Hajji.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0163par0389	Look, I'm bringing my proposal for him. But there was another incident that I was as upset about as he was, which is that sometimes when we hear a phrase like that from someone close to us, at least we'll listen to him in silence and say we don't approve of it, but I've seen some CHP MPs clapping for it, and I'm really, really sorry about that. For him, there is a shame that must be corrected, and Mr. Kilicdaroglu must come and do it in front of all the groups on this stand. (EC PARTY Applause) Or history will really remember him by his speech. For him, it's about autism, of course, it's about us. Of course, I spoke to my brother Cetin Arik. He's got a relative, and I've got a Down Syndrome relative. We need to look into this. They're done, they're spoken for, but what Mr. Kilicdaroglu needs to be fixed, the members of the group can't fix, nor can the MPs.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0165par0391	Then they say, "Why are there women's murders? That's why they're killing women.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0163par0392	Mr. Kilicdaroglu is the one who has to fix it. Otherwise, history will really remember Mr. Kilicdaroglu in his speech but in a very bad way. So I propose to Mr. Gök, that Mr. Kilicdaroglu -- as a group of vice presidents -- correct this shame. That was really sad.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0165par0393	Don't call him "Mr."
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0163par0394	That's our style, Mr Enç.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0166par0395	Everyone does what suits them.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0163par0396	I mean, everybody does what's best for them. That's why all my friends know that I don't want to get out of touch with these matters. So, of course, we're going to talk about what we're doing with our autistic, down syndrome, disabled brothers, what we're supposed to do, but we're going to tell them what we need to do, but we're going to write down historical records, and we're going to talk about this level. Although what has happened, I don't know how much can be corrected, but it is the right of our Minister of Family and Social Policy to apologize in front of the Turkish people, as well as the right of our minister, a chaste woman, and the right of the Turkish community. That's why, Mr. Sky, that's why I'm giving you this request. In the presence of the Supreme General Assembly, I say that Mr. Kilicdaroglu should correct this shame. Now, before I started speaking, some of my friends said: "Give a more severe speech about this conversation, which is heavier, as heavy as possible. " However, no matter how high you raise your voice, no matter how heavy you make your statements, if there is no solution, it is of no use. It's just a self-satisfying act that doesn't suit us. For him, my dear friends, there is a shame to be corrected, a grave shame. The first step is to apologize.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0167par0398	They do that a lot, Mr. President. Yesterday they said it was vulgar, that's what they call it today.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0163par0399	I ask the president of the Republican People's Party to rectify this crime.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0168par0400	We're waiting.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0169par0401	We wait as women.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0163par0402	We're waiting. In the first place, I'd like to ask our female representatives, our Republican People's Party women, to explain and force Mr. Kilicdaroglu to make this statement. I was going to talk a lot about this, about autism, but really, you don't have to talk about it. Indeed, we must all enter into an effort to discuss technical issues, to discuss them, to discuss them in a level manner, to evaluate them, and then to reach a conclusion, but it has really upset our concentration, but it has also disturbed the concentration of the Turkish people. So, I, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, would like to take this stand as soon as possible and ask all groups to correct this shame and apologize to our Minister of Family and Social Policy, and salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0170par0405	Thank you, Mr. Unüvar. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0171par0407	Sir, I'd like to make a statement to make it into the reports.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0170par0408	I can turn on your microphone if you'd like.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0171par0409	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, we have seen once again how much the subject, which AKP spokesmen refer to our president, has been distorted.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0172par0411	The sentence's open, what's crooked about it?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0171par0412	I regret to inform you that we have welcomed a former minister's statement about Reza Sarraf, who expressed his intention to protect the Minister of the Family, our president, to relate to such a matter.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0173par0413	There's a videotape, Mr. Sky, there's a video.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0171par0414	If they're looking for more serious things to criticize themselves, they need to be more serious, and no one can drag our president into such an argument.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0174par0415	Yeah, that's why you don't get votes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0171par0416	Our president is clear on what he's saying, on what he's saying. I also condemn the mentality that wants to draw our President into such an argument. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0175par0419	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0176par0421	Mr. Levent Gök, would you have accepted your wife if she had been told? Mr. Sky, would you have accepted your wife if she had been told?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0177par0422	Take care of yourself.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0175par0423	Congressmans, please... please, sir...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0178par0424	Mr. President, thank you. The EC PARTI Group's demand for this issue is clear, of course depends on whether or not it should be fulfilled. In the end, it is the people who will make a fair decision about this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0179par0427	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group proposal, Ahmet Selim Yurdakul, Antalya MP. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0180par0432	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, my esteemed citizens, the other day was World Autism Awareness Day. It all starts with the increase of awareness. For example, some nations who realize that they pay too much taxes have taken away their country's forms of governance, even the powers of families who ruled with the kingdom for hundreds of years. That's why we, the National Movement Party, have a close relationship with both the health community and NGOs to increase awareness of autism. Because in studies, we know that every 100 children born now are born with autism. The international health community, along with NGOs, is also engaged in extensive activities for autism, the diagnosis and treatment of autism, because early detection in autism cannot be denied. The lives of autistic individuals and their families, in other words, are changing greatly by early recognition of autism, which is so important that it can affect their fate. We, the National Movement Party, have repeatedly expressed our interest in promoting protective health care and preventing diseases from ever being exposed. If you remember, during the Health Ministry budget talks, we told each and every one of us what should be done in health care, as the National Movement Party, in the sense of constructive opposition. Therefore, I would like to thank the Minister of Health once again for telling the party's health policy proposals and its benefits to our country. What did we recommend as the nationalist movement party? We proposed a health policy that could provide effective and rapid service to all our citizens, both health workers and citizens, that would please our patients together, care for protective health care rather than medical care, care for education and RD studies, and get the opinion and approval of all concerned parties. Yesterday, the Minister of Health made a statement exactly as follows: During the coming period, it is necessary to keep protective and preventive health care much stronger on Turkey's agenda. We treat well after being sick. The important part is that we take every precaution to prevent him from being sick. The part is more important than that. Yeah, that's right, we're joining the Minister of Health, and the rest of his speech said that cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and respiratory diseases took place in the world during the first three times. Let us also look at the situation in our country: When we look at the data from 2015, one of every seven people is suffering from diabetes. We have about 9 million diabetics in our country right now, we have 24 million hypertension patients, we have about 1 million cancer patients, we have 8,179,000 patients diagnosed with depression in the study, and one of 68 children, unfortunately, have been diagnosed with autism. The most important cause of these first three diseases is tobacco and tobacco products, unhealthy diet, obesity and dormant life and air pollution. The Minister of Health has expressed that, too. We sincerely support the work done to quit smoking, but the measurements in terms of air pollution, unfortunately, in 41 of our 81 counties, have received health-threatening results, and air pollution in our country is nearly twice the standards of the European Union, and 29,000 people lose their lives every year. Here, we need to take every precaution together to eliminate the factors that cause disease. As a nationalist movement party, we've proposed them over and over again. Well, here's to another statement from the Minister of Health. In this picture, we are a very powerful health consumer country. The minister says that the M.R., CT and hospital access rate of the world's most advanced countries is 8.2 and 8.3. This shows that we are a very powerful health care server, but we are also a very powerful health consumer, and this is the basic area of Turkey's distress, he says. You were wrong when we said it, Mr. Secretary, but now, unfortunately, you have confessed. Indeed, the total number of examinations in 2014 is 643 million. Although we now have a young population, about one person applies to a doctor 8.3 times a year. You know very well why, Mr. Secretary. Do you know how many scans of our citizens were taken by exposure to radiation in this country in 2014: 12 million 407,000. The number of MRIs is 10 million 259,000. Because you know what you've done, you've brought a system called the performance system, and the more patients you look at, the more money you offer, the more money you offer, the more money you offer the doctor, and a doctor, unfortunately, gives a patient five minutes. So, what's going on? The quantity is increasing, but the quality is dropping to zero. For example, Mr. Secretary, do you know how much you can diagnose lung cancer, go out and say it clearly. In our work, unfortunately, the total delay is over a hundred days, Mr. Secretary. Why don't you just admit it? Tell these facts to the citizens one by one, and because of the policy you've made, the health expenditure is now around 103 billion. Well, the Minister of Health says that in order to be strong in medical science, the AR-GE will have to build a strong infrastructure. Yes, Mr. Secretary, that's what we suggested as the National Movement Party. I've just said that, but it's true to come to the truth. So congratulations again. Well, that one, a bomb went off in Ankara, so, on March 14th, Mr. Prime Minister's news to the medics went out in the middle. Do you know what Mr. Prime Minister said: "Yes, Mr. Doctors, Dear Doctors to Retirement, I give you good news, I raise your pensions 1,000 lira." We, the National Movement Party, have offered law to increase the rights of all health workers and are now in Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, if you really care about health workers, say yes to this bill with your deputies. That's when the health workers' rights will be increased. We, the National Movement Party, will do everything we can to get this proposal to pass through. Another suggestion is that you said: "We're bringing in a losing share, health workers." But you're not telling the truth, Mr. Prime Minister. You only bring wear and tear to those who stand watch in 15 days and nine days. So what are we going to do about those who aren't on guard duty, how do we describe the watchmen? We, the National Movement Party, offer 90 days each year of wear and tear. You don't take the depletion portion backwards, you take it forward, but we think it's necessary to give you a part of the wear and tear. Otherwise, how do we know what's going to happen 25 years, 30 years from now? To turn these good news into true good news, please say yes to the proposals of the National Movement Party. Finally, as the National Party of Action, we bring the following suggestions for the diagnosis and treatment of autism: 1) A co-ordination board of relevant ministries must be established. 2) Augmenting the awareness of autism and the obligation of families with children in our country's 0-3-year-old group to study autism and follow. 3) In order to give detailed information and education to health personnel who first contact the child, all necessary is to be done. 4) The early intervention programme and legal arrangements for this need to be structured. 5) The family needs psychological support, information, and guidance services. 6) Acceptance and solidarity must be encouraged and encouraged by family members to participate in autism-related NGOs. 7) All instructors, including private education teachers, social workers and therapists, who practice different training therapy for autism, must be given opportunities and training. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I give you all my love and respect for listening to me very carefully.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0181par0456	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. İsmail Tamer, Kayseri MP against the Republican People's Party proposal. Here you go, Mr. Tamer. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0182par0461	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal to open a parliamentary investigation into what autism is, according to Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution and the Civil Code. I salute the High Council. Before I begin my speech, I pray to God for the mercy of our soldiers, our policemen, and our civil citizens, who have been martyrs to preserve the uninterrupted integrity of Turkey. I also curse all terrorist organizations, especially the PKK terrorist organization. I wish our wounded a speedy recovery. I'm also celebrating the Day of Lawyers' Day, April 5th. Dear lawmakers, autism can't just be the argument of a political party, and no party should act like that. I'm going to say a lot of things, but today I strongly condemn the insult that the president of the Republican People's Party has made to our Minister of the Family. In particular, again, I refer the women's deputies of the Republican People's Party, who applaud him, to Allah. Because if a lady clapped if she didn't know where to go or how to talk, I'm not saying much.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0183par0464	Ask your minister, your minister.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0184par0465	Why are you twisting it? It has nothing to do with it. What are you twisting?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0182par0466	Mr. President, don't do anything like that, there's nothing to defend.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0185par0467	Absolutely not.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0184par0468	Don't get me started.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0182par0469	On the contrary, it's hard for you to answer that once, and we know it's hard for you to handle. Personally, as a congressman, I strongly condemn the use of such a statement under this roof, which is not appropriate for a general president. You don't have to talk at all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, we need to consider not only autism, we need to consider our disabled citizens. These should be considered to be the needs of compassion, attention, attention, disorders in society. These disorders can be referred to as epoch developmental disorders. And that's five ways of saying it, so that's what autistic disorders are at the beginning of. Other disorders may include Asperger's disorder, childhood's dezinc disorder, Rett's disorder, and other disorders. The autism spectrum disorder is a disorder that occurs in childhood neuroimprovemental disorders, which emerges during the first three years of life, resulting in life-long problems of social interaction, verbal and non-verbal communication. As it appears all over the world, especially in all families, no matter what socioeconomic levels. In society, autistic disorder can be seen between 3,3 (16) and 16 in ten thousand, but also in 21 people per 10,000 when the widespread developmental disorder is involved. In men, we can easily say that we see about one to three, but when we think about it widely, we see about one to five. Dear lawmakers, it is impossible to determine the exact cause of autistic disorder. However, the ability to accompany mental retardation, the high frequency of epilepsy and EEG abnormalities, along with other medical conditions, suggests that autism is a biological disorder. With genetic factors and prenatal factors, after birth, it's important that they come out faster. We know that autism is not possible with the information and methods that we have now, but if we can identify this disorder as soon as possible, with better treatments, these skills can be revealed. From that point of view, the sooner we can identify these disorders, especially at the age of three, the more likely it is to eliminate them with education. Of course, some children have also been shown to have a variety of findings, especially in order for these children to become more active. They can't make eye contact; even if they look into your eyes, they may seem short-lived and distant from you; they're restless, some of them can get a better sense of sound and smell, some of them can't. One of the most important features is that they see some changes around them in a very short period of time, and they're stressed out until they can eliminate it. They can somehow detect habits that are not considered routine and cannot be done. With such findings, it's possible to detect them. Dear MPs, of course, as a government, I can safely say that we, the ministries, have done a lot of that. April 2nd was declared World Awareness Day by the United Nations to create awareness of autism around the world. We have expressed this as the month of Autism Awareness, and we have also carried out efforts to improve awareness and sensitivity for the participation of individuals in social life. As a result of the new disability policy that has been accelerating in our country in recent years, studies are also being carried out on increasing the quality of life and solving problems for disabled individuals. Legal provisions for basic rights and services for problems facing disabled individuals in their living areas are also needed. The most important thing we've done is to draft a national action plan for individuals with autism spectrum disorder. Our Ministry of Family and Social Policy has submitted to the High Planning Board the action plan, which includes the obligations of all relevant institutions and organisations to autism. As part of our ministry's draft plan of action, there have been many more studies, especially in recent years. In 2014 and 2015, on World Autism Awareness Day, the relevant ministries and institutions were provided with information about this disorder, especially with organizations attended by universities, NGOs and families. In 2015, our Ministry and UNICEF have signed projects in Turkey's diplomatic mission to build a model of rehabilitation for autistic children in nursing homes, to implement the Short-term National Individual Advice Project, to build a rehabilitation model for autistic individuals. As part of the plan of action, our efforts to ensure the participation of autistic individuals in social life will continue the same way. In addition, in 2014, our Ministry of Health trained 14,767 people, 3,367 people including 3,500 medical staff, 1,500 educators, 3,400 students, and 6,367. Again, in 2015, he gave 10,558 medical staff, 3,435 educators, 10,700 students, and 53,304 other people with awareness training. Dear lawmakers, we have always been there for these children, and we will continue to be there for them. We've never put these kids in a situation where they're trapped in their homes, away from public life. We gave our children the necessary support, along with our disabled children, along with the Law of the disabled, which we established in 2005. We pay special attention to their special education. I also say that this matter is very important and that my dear brother Cetin Bey is also aware of it -- because of one side of it -- is always a political, non-party issue.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0186par0484	Back up, back up.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0182par0485	I can't support this matter because of the work we've already done, so I'll give you all my respect and love. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0187par0488	Thank you, Mr. Tamer. I will submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes... Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0188par0491	For the record, sir, it's the speech of the speaker. Mr. President, a minister who resigned in the December 17, 25th corruption operation has once again shown how serious he is by twisting the words of our President-in-Chief, who reminded Reza Sarraf of a statement he said. Considering our president's grace and his importance to women, we strongly reject these words as Republican People's Party, which we don't accept.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0189par0495	By insulting them, he shows the importance he gives to women?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0190par0496	There's no twist at all. What's the twist got to do with it?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0188par0497	We also refer the AKP Group on autism involving 4.5 million families to the opinion of our great nation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0191par0498	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who do not accept... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0188par0500	Come on, come on, consciences, where are the consciences? Why don't you accept autism?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0192par0501	We're working, we're already doing it, there's nothing to accept, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0191par0502	In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration. I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly (2/734) main no. I demand and demand that my proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37 of my ful Proposition. As the bidder, I'll make a promise to Istanbul MP Onursal Adıllah. Here you go, Mr. Nice Name. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0193par0515	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are the main no. (2/734), which we presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on January 2016, which has been held in the Commission since then and is not on the agenda. I'm going to talk to you about our proposal. I salute the General Assembly. With our proposal for the amendment in Social Services Act 2828, we were seeking to remove the requirement for income on the basis of household income provided for the daily maintenance fee provided for disabled citizens so that they can continue their daily lives, because with the current application, our disabled citizens are being victimised by ignoring the principle of independence of the disabled individuals and contrary to the principle of justice and equality. Not only our disabled citizens, but their families are also victimized by this practice. In fact, the current practice also points to a painful fact: The government, which usually immediately signs many international contracts, such as the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the disabled, is, unfortunately, far further away from the definition of the modern society when it comes to implementing them. In most of the arrangements that the government boasts about implementing for our disabled citizens, the government is far further from considering disabled people as individuals. Instead of strengthening the disabled as individuals, these regulations often condemn them to their families. Each time we take charity to the center, we reduce the disabled to the objects of a simple sense of compassion. These practices of the government are of no use but to divert the problems of our disabled citizens. The solution to the problems of our disabled citizens is only possible with the development of holistic, social policies that bring them into the center as individuals. As of today's picture, we see that we are far from producing these policies. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have unfortunately not done a comprehensive study of the disabled since the official statistical institution of the state, TÜİK, 2010. In an environment where there is no comprehensive data on disabled people, how can we create a whole policy about disabled people, I'd like to ask you from here. Since there is no data for disabled citizens, the policies that we produce for disabled people are being carried out more as general policies. On the other hand, there are serious challenges regarding the sustainability of regulations for disabled persons. Dear lawmakers, according to the November 2015 data of the State Chief of Staff, 22.551 disabled persons in public remain open. We repeatedly say that the current disabled staff is inadequate, but we don't even need to fill our quotas. I'm particularly curious as to why. Why doesn't the government just fill the current disability quotas? Is that how we're going to get our disabled citizens involved in the social process? On the other hand, discrimination, violence and abuse against disabled children continues to increase daily. Our judiciary, unfortunately, encourages violence and abuse by giving a 14-year-old, 50 percent mentally challenged brother a good status discount, such as a reward. According to studies, 58 per cent of the disabled have been subjected to violence, battery, and harassment in the past two years -- only media-based research. On the other hand, our disabled children are deprived of all education. For example, only 3 per cent of our disabled can reach preschool education, and only 35 per cent of our friends can attend high school. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, of course, we can sum up the problems of the disabled with more statistics, but I'm not going to talk about any more numbers here. A five-minute conversation can't sum up the problems of the disabled. But we've been talking about these platforms over and over and over and over and over again, but we have to remember that these numbers we're talking about are individuals, children, wives, children, parents, brothers and sisters. We're suffering too much in our country to fit numbers. We call him the martyr who reached 400. I ask God's mercy on our martyrs, here and now. Suruçta 33, Ankara Station 103... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One more minute...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0194par0525	Mr. Nameful, we don't have an extension, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0195par0526	A greeting, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0193par0527	I'd like an additional time to complete a greeting.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0194par0528	Good name, I can't promise.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0193par0529	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0194par0531	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to present it to you on this occasion. There are a number of issues agreed upon at a meeting with the political group's deputy leaders, headed by the Turkish Grand National Assembly on March 31st 2016. This agreement contains a number of issues related to the General Assembly's work. According to Article 11 of this memorandum of understanding, no additional time will be given to the speakers except for the first and last-day talks of the budget and the talks of the presidents. I'm here to inform you that this is how the next application will be. This is a subject the entire General Assembly has agreed on over all political party groups. So don't mind my application.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0196par0536	I think it's wrong, Mr. President. As the presidents are supposed to take a stand under the rules of courtesy, so do lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0194par0540	Ali Şeker, İstanbul MP as a member of parliament on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sugar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0197par0544	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Today is April 5th, Lawyer's Day. I'm celebrating the day of our struggling lawyers who are working to get justice done. I hope to establish together a legal system where justice has been purged of all kinds of custody, where there are no justice courts serving under orders, and those who are fighting justice are not under pressure, and the President knows the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, we want peace. I would like to start by condemning our Balıkesir MP Mehmet Alley, who has been targeted by the local media for months for saying that he wants peace. I would like to start by condemning a fascist attack at a martyr's funeral he attended the other day. We want peace, we don't want people to die, that's clear. Fascist gangs and those who support them must know that we will continue to express our desire for peace more strongly, no matter where in Turkey. I'm afraid we've lost more than 1,000 citizens because of the chaos plan you've put into practice since June 7th, you haven't received 400 MPs. We want those who push the button to put an end to the chaos plan as soon as possible. In order for the conflict to end, let us join four parties in our great House and fulfill our responsibilities. We want no new martyrs, no new veterans, no new casualties, and no new disableds. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a promise in our country regarding our disabled citizens who are trying hard to live their lives. My congressman friend, Honorary Namely, just told me the reason for the offer. The disability rights must be granted positive privileges in order for disabled persons to have access to equal rights, such as uninterrupted individuals. The government collects taxes from everyone to give the rights of disabled citizens. We should not abandon the financial and social needs of the disabled individual to his family, but to carry out the responsibility of being a social state in this regard. According to Law on the disabled 5378, the disability must take every precaution to ensure the equality of opportunity for the disabled to benefit from all rights and services, to ensure full and active accessibility for the disabled, to eliminate the disabled, and to prevent the abuse of the disabled. ▪ Non-discrimination based on obstruction is the basis of policies for those who are disabled in the fight against discrimination. We're part of the United Nations Convention on Rights. On December 3, 2008, this contract was approved by our Parliament, and on October 28, 2009, Turkey made it binding to meet its obligations. But this date has been permanently postponed, and it's 2016, and we still haven't fulfilled our obligations. I'd like to remind you in particular of one of the numbers given by our honorary friend. Our government has 2,100,000 officers, the law requires 63,207 disabled staff, but 40,656 disabled people working on staff. While there are hundreds of thousands of unemployed disabled, 22,500 state staffs are kept available for the disabled. Despite these empty staffs, even though they have legal rights, our disabled citizens who want to work are not allowed on the staff of officers. What is the use of the laws passed when the state does not live on government staffs, even when the state does not abide by its own laws and laws? I'll give you a more practical example: there are yellow puffed bands drawn to the sidewalks to make the transport of the blind more comfortable and secure. Many municipalities put bus stops between these lanes, as you can see here in this photograph. This picture is taken in February and from where former family and social services Minister Fatma Şahin was mayor of Gaziantep. The bus stop across the blind road you see here. Honourable lawmakers, obstacles begin and end in our brains. It's up to us to take it as a problem and make life easier. The law proposal we offer to the disabled is an offer to eliminate the loss of the disabled because of these conditions, which regulates the commitment of care support to the income requirement. Come on, we all want to solve this problem together and solve this problem together. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0198par0557	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... The motion is not accepted. Under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move on to "The Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" on the agenda. We will begin negotiations with Turkey's Bill of Human Rights and Equality Act, which is ranked in the 1st place, as well as with the Women's Equality Commission and the Human Rights Commission. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. İstanbul MP Hüda Kaya and his friends' motion to vote on Article 19 (April 1, 2016) under Article 149, which was considered the main law according to Article 91. Now, to remind you of the motion, I'm going to re-read it and put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 19 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149 be removed from the bill. Huda Kaya (Istanbul) and his friends I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 19th article of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act, which is listed in 149 rows, shall be changed in the following way. 31.03.2016 In order for the president to authorise the first joke, he is authorized to ask for information and documents related to all public institutions and institutions and other legal persons, to examine them, to take their samples, to receive verbal information from them, to consult with those who have been written or deprived of their freedom or taken into protective custody, prisons, detention centers, rehab centers, stations, outposts, hospital inmates, to visit, to observe them, and to organise the necessary transcripts. Public institutions and institutions and other real and legal persons must facilitate the visits of the institution and meet its demands without delay. Ahmet Akın (Fishesir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0199par0578	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0198par0579	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0200par0580	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0198par0581	Nihat Yeşil, Ankara MP on a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Green. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Green, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0201par0585	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the 19th Amendment of the Constitution of the Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey. I salute the High Council with love. I also congratulate you on Lawyer's Day. Respected lawmakers, it is an honor for every human being to work on the development of human rights and to contribute to the development of light in this area. We should all share the honor in good faith. Each man deserves life in safety and freedom, without subjecting himself to language, religion, race, gender, philosophy, or political thinking. Therefore, the development of rights and freedoms, the eradication of human cruelty, and the development of an egalitarian understanding between humans, of course, should be a common goal for all of us. We want to trust everyone on this. We're completely unconditional about human rights, but we've failed as a country in this regard. According to the Human Rights Association's findings, in 2015 alone 348 women were killed in violation of human rights, 186 children were sexually abused, 55 children were subjected to battery and torture and torture, 1.379 people were subjected to torture and abuse in detention, 31 journalists were held in prisons, 5 newspaper printers, 3 newspaper offices, 1 magazine office, 9 magazine office, 1 broadcast house, 2 TV channel raids, and 26 attacks against the press. Can we talk about the rights and rights and freedom of the people of the 68 institutions, including political parties and associations, where 45 children were raped at the Ensar Foundation in Karaman, where two people died in these incidents, and two people were banned from access to the 26.851 website, and security forces intervened in the 545 meetings and demonstrations, including political parties and associations, and there were literally thousands of rights and rights and freedom violations that we could not complete by counting on the 14 years of AKP power? Is it possible for our citizens to trust the AKP's power under these conditions? No matter how well-intentioned we try, it's obvious. For 14 years, AKP's policies have failed in human rights, as in all areas. Honourable lawmakers, we are, of course, and we are, in favor of the establishment of an institution in our country aimed at preventing national violations against the protection of human rights, anti-discrimination, torture and abuse of human rights. However, the draft bill is deeply lacking and problematic in the nature and function of the institution, which is envisioned to protect human rights, use human rights and freedoms. The Paris Principles laid out by the United Nations Commission for Human Rights are clear and clear. The Human Rights and Equality Institution, envisioned in the current law, has to conform to the Paris Principles, but the bill does not meet that obligation. In addition, the bill does not clearly and clearly define the concept of discrimination. How will you determine which types of discrimination cause human rights violations? Besides, the structure of the board, envisioned in the bill, worries us. The election of eight members of the 11-member board by the Council of Ministers and three members by the President makes it clear and possible for the government to intervene in determining and prevent human rights violations. In addition, the Bill of Human Rights and Equality Act has been prepared without the opinion of universities, NGOs, democratic mass organisations and independent organisations working on human rights in our country. The government is obliged to put a singular perspective on this... In this framework, work must be done for a serious and separate law that will withdraw the bill and prevent national violations. As we became congressmen, we all set out on this bench to take advantage of human rights and basic freedoms with the understanding of national solidarity and justice for the peace and well-being of our society. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0202par0596	Thank you, Mr. Green. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Now, I'm going to read the final motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Human Rights and Equality Act No. 149 of Turkey's 149 rankings be removed from the draft text of the declaration by Human Rights and Equality Assistants and other institutional staff assigned by the President in the 19th article of Article (1) of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality. Spiritual Ersoy (Osmania) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0203par0603	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0202par0604	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0204par0605	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0202par0606	Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr Varli. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0205par0610	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It is a law adopted under the name European Union's compliance, a law imposed on the European Union because it wants it, and if many laws are adopted as refugees, and many laws are passed after six months, gentlemen will be granted the right to visa-free travel of citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Of course, there's a lot of things they want to do about it, they dictate it to us, and we're dealing with these laws like we need them, like we need them, like there's a lot of lessons to learn from them, or there's something to learn from them. For one thing, Europe has to look at itself in terms of human rights. I mean, we don't have any lessons in human rights from Europe. So when they invaded Africa yesterday, they exploited all of its natural resources, took people, took them, enslaved them; when they invaded America, when they discovered the American continent, they destroyed the Indians, the Indian was extinct. So again, when they were throwing Jews into the furnaces in their wars among themselves, our ancestors took the Jews, took them as guests, and placed them here, and allowed them to live. For him, there's no lesson that we can learn from the European Union in this sense, from the European countries, but what we're suffering from is what we can't shout or say in this sense is where we don't understand. So in exchange for 3 billion euros or 6 billion euros, we're going to risk their lives here, and we're going to take back refugees who have been to Europe by drowning, some of whom have survived drowning, so we're going to deal with what they've sent us here, as if all the Syrians who live in Turkey aren't enough. I mean, look, my dear friends, theft has increased in Turkey, prostitution has increased, murder, battery, muggings have increased, people no longer have safety, property safety. You're looking at it this afternoon, and it's breaking up, and what happened? They robbed someone's house. You're running over there. What happened? The Syrians broke in, robbed. I mean, I don't despise those people, don't let that mean anything, God help them, God don't leave no country, God don't make anyone run away from home. But damn those who put them in this position. I mean, what right did they have to put them in this position? May God destroy them for what they have brought down, and who has been its supporters. I don't mind them, people are hungry. I mean, there's a saying like that, but it's a little slang, and I don't want to say it here. Anyway... My dear friends, I mean, we're responsible right now for breaking a lot of laws that the European Union has imposed on us to give us this because we're getting visa-free. Here's one of the things about human rights. As I was saying earlier, when they were seeking Africa's mine, our ancestors took services there when they went to Africa, when our ancestors went to the Balkans, they took bridges there, they took taverns, they took baths, and they even released religious ambitions to people, but today Europe has brought evil, blood, tears everywhere it goes. That's Afghanistan, that's Iraq, that's Syria, that's the simplest country we've ever seen in front of us. So mix it up, drop it against each other, then you sell guns, get rich while they strangle each other, and while that country's dealing with each other, go over there, take the natural resources of that country, put it in your own pocket, take it to your own citizens. That's their understanding. So there's no lesson we can learn from them. Their citizens are not much more valuable than us. Their people's lifestyle shouldn't be much more important than ours. But when we look at it today, Europe is trying to crush the people of other countries to protect its own people's lives, to make it better for its own people, to take away the people of another country's rights and laws. So, in that sense, we have a lot to offer the European Union, a lot to tell, but nothing from the European Union. We have nothing to buy from the European states. Let them answer for Africa first, and let them answer for the Indians first. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit02spe0206par0618	Thank you, Mr Varli. I submit to your votes the final motion that we have completed our meeting: those who have not accepted... those who do not... are not accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... the matter is accepted. I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit03spe0206par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 149. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. There are three motions on Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "In case the decision taken by the president or board concerning the study and investigation of Article (3) of Article 20 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act No. 149 is in session, the expert can be appointed to listen to witnesses or persons involved in the institution budget." We offer and offer to correct the form. Mustafa Mit Nuri Okutan of Deniz Depboy İsmail Faruk Aksu Open Mind Mehmet Erdoğan Desire Virtue Erkan Haberal Spiritual Ersoy Now, I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article (3) of Article 20 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act, 149, which is currently in session, be removed from the draft text of Article (3). Ahmet Akin Mahmoud Tanal Onursal Adjective Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 20 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149 be removed from the bill. Çağlar Demirel İdris Baluken Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Kasdri Yıldırım Sibel Yiğitalp Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit03spe0207par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit03spe0206par0034	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit03spe0208par0035	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit03spe0206par0036	Mehmet Ali Aslan, Batman MP on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit03spe0209par0040	Mr. President, Mr. Court and the esteemed MPs, I salute you all. First, we celebrate the festival of Akito of Assyria, Süryani, Keldani, and Syria, which has been celebrated for six thousand and seven hundred and sixty six years. It has been celebrated since the days of Akkadian, the Assyrians, and the Babylonians. I also celebrated in the form of a syrian.................................................................................................... And today, April 5th, it's Lawyer's Day, and we're celebrating our lawyers' Lawyer's Day. But I'm afraid lawyers have become lawyers in this final process. In that sense, may God help them and us. Unfortunately, human rights are still being violated in a very public way, while the Bill of Human Rights and Equality is being discussed. For example, last week we had a motion to investigate, about the lost Bediuz Zaz time, about Sheikh Sait, about Seyit Reza, about their graves still not found, and unfortunately, there are still the Saidi Nursi-Saidi Kurdi debates. Which makes the bones of dead people ache, and I'm sure they're deeply disturbed right now. Saidi didn't accept Kurdistan, nor did Saidi Nursi. He didn't understand Saidi Kurdistan, nor did Saidi Nursi. There are names in which time is conjuncturally used in parallel with political and political developments. He used many nicknames and names, such as "The Old Sait," "The New Sait," "The New Sait," "Ebu Lâşe" (Ebu Lâşeşe) and "The Time" (Islamic). He needs to be kept away from racial debates. We value his ideas, his works, his integrity; his race, of course, shouldn't be debated. A fellow orator just sang beautifully, critical of the European criteria. Okay, let's put aside the Geneva Convention, the Paris Convention, Warsaw, the European harmonies, the Magna Carta, and the references in the history of Islam. For example, there is an agreement called Hilful Fudul. When the prophet (AS) was 20 years old, before his prophecy arrived, the pilgrims who had come to Mecca were persecuted in some way, and their possessions were taken away. What did you finally get up and say? The people of Mecca gathered together and said, "Let us not accept this persecution. Let all the tribes gather together and form a commission, and who was on that commission? There were pagans, Christians, tribes of Hanif. In a way that these combined, in today's sense, a commission was created to defend human rights and law, so it wasn't created from a single group of parliaments. Eight members of today's commission are appointed by ministers, three members by the President. This is also contrary to those references of Islam. In the same way, the Medina Vesica is actually related to this board, or rather, this board is conflicted because there were people in the Medina Vesica who represented all ethnic, religious minorities, and so justice was more effective. I finish my words and greet you with respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit03spe0210par0048	Thank you, Mr. Lion. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit03spe0211par0050	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit03spe0210par0051	Since there's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, I'll look for a sufficient number of votes. Those who don't... those who don't... There's been a hesitation on the Presidential Court as to whether there's enough to decide. That's why I'm voting with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0210par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough during the vote of Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan and his friends' motion on Article 20 of the Law Bill 149. I'll re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We now resume negotiations with Bill 149, where we left off. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article (3) of Article 20 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act, 149, which is currently in session, be removed from the draft text of Article (3). Senal Sarıhan (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0212par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0210par0013	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0213par0014	We disagree, Reverend President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0210par0015	On the proposal, Senal Sarıhan, Ankara MP. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0214par0019	Dear President, I salute all of you, fellow clerks, fellow lawmakers and fellow workers. I need to talk to you about Article 20 of the bill that we've been discussing for some time. In this regard, the staff, as experts, are authorized to listen to witnesses. Now, we all know that the authority to listen to witnesses is a judge's authority. It may be a procedure to listen to witnesses for private administrative investigations, but in an institution such as the Human Rights and Equality Foundation, both the giving of witness wiretaps and the unlawful hearing of witnesses, the evaluation of these reports, and the intervention of judicial authority, will clearly create significant differences both in our internal and international law. We're dealing with a bill that's been so hasty -- we've tried to express it before -- sitting together on a subcommittee of our friends, our friends who work in the human rights field, and our friends who have legal knowledge.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0210par0021	Congressmans, there's a hum in the General Assembly. Please, sir...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0215par0022	No, sir, we had some questions from the women's rights advocates, so it hums for him.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0210par0023	Please, Mr. Lawmakers... Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0216par0025	Dear friends, today we're talking about human rights, and we've also had a day celebration of both the police and the lawyer, who are working in the field of security or who are working in the field of rights. During this celebration, I would like to express his connection to this bill by saying a few things on Lawyer's Day. The bill that we have gives the institution the authority to monitor the areas of the people who will be affected by this treatment in connection with torture, cruel treatment and abuse, where they will be treated in accordance with human rights. Depending on the contract that we signed -- which we were supposed to enforce within a year of the signing of the contract -- we couldn't do it, or rather we did it in a different way -- we formed a board of human rights reviews, but the board that we formed was seen to be incomplete by all international control mechanisms, to begin six months after the date it was formed. Now, the contract that we just signed, which is years after the contract was signed, is actually coming up on this bill, and we're trying to make a new arrangement on this bill. I'd also like to make a positive point that we're also making an arrangement that exceeds international agreement on the study of closed institutions. But there is a serious problem with who will conduct these examinations during the preparation of this bill, which committees, which institutions are equipped with what powers. What's the problem? The relevant clause of the bill, which we have passed, or rather passed, is determined by the President of the board, and by the other by the Council of Ministers. Now, I point out to the positive, and I point out the positive point, but in the same contract, it says that these boards are often determined by civil society organizations in the field of human rights or by people who work in the field of human rights and are known to do names and should be independent and unbiased in any case. Now, friends, for God's sake, who does the Council of Ministers represent? His government. The president is an official, who is still close to the administration, in any other way, as he is today. How, then, is it possible, independently, with the structure of today, to conduct these examinations? It won't, dear friends. When we're making law here, if we don't base on human rights and build new laws on that foundation, we'll all be in trouble, and I want to present it to your knowledge. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0217par0030	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0218par0032	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0217par0035	There's a request for roll call. I'll get the names of the MPs who requested roll call first. Mr. Gök, Mr. Altay, Mr. Torun, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Yım, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Bayer, Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Yıldız Bicer, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Akyıldı, Mr. Sertül, Mr. Akkaya, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Akkan, Mr. Akkaya. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll do the roll call with the electronics. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "In case the decision taken by the president or board concerning the study and investigation of Article (3) of Article 20 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act No. 149 is in session, the expert can be appointed to listen to witnesses or persons involved in the institution budget." We offer and offer to correct the form. Erkan Haberal (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0219par0051	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0217par0052	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0220par0053	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0217par0054	Mr. Erkan Haberal wants to talk about the motion, Ankara MP. Here you are, Mr. Haberal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0221par0058	Mr. President, as of June 7th, we have 451 martyrs and 192 martyrs since New Year's. Last time yesterday, we lost a major and one of our senior sergeants and last night, a fellow Special Operations Officer named Yaşar Süçük from the village of Rize Sunday Sitor in Silopi. Their abode will be Paradise. Our heart, our heart, our everything is with them, with their families. I'd also like to honor the 16 dead brothers we gave to Azerbaijan. To us, wherever there is a Turkish martyr in the world, he is the martyr of this nation, the martyr of Turkey, the martyr of the Turkish nation. Speaking of Azerbaijan, there's one thing I'd like to stress in particular: the people of Azerbaijan are Turkish people, not Azerbaijan. The Azerbaijan name is the assimilation project of Soviet Russia, the dissolution project, the differentiation project, especially a project launched by the Turkish nation prior to the republical era. There's something our citizens, the Turks who live in Azerbaijan, tell us, one of you and the others in our north. They are members of the Turkish nation. Members of parliament, the bill we're discussing is generally lacking in the interest of human rights violations and a problem in philosophy. The principle of combating discrimination and equality at the top of the bill is that it is already against the name that the authors put their own thoughts first, leaving a serious question mark on the consciences. The opposition bill of our MP, the representative of the National Movement Party on this issue, also favoured the establishment of such an institution, but stressed that the principle of equality can be undermined, especially referring to Article 10 of the Constitution. While the Human Rights and Equality Foundation is being established, its opinion of political parties -- representatives of all of our people in our community -- and that they are not represented enough or even enough in this institution -- will cause it to be called a ruling rights institution, not the Human Rights Institution. Although the authority of the 20th article is filled with statements that we can't object to, that we should support, that we can't, but it is also necessary for the Constitution to pay taxes on bread, on water, on electricity, on oil, on any kind of income, on the basis of income, on the basis of an expert's income. If this claim has been made under the assumption that the charge of the expert witness will be reduced after the taxation has been made, the amendments to the additional indicators can be corrected positively in favour of the expert. The study of Article 20 of Article (3) is full of question marks for the authority of the institution staff to listen to witnesses. It has not been specified whether to charge witnesses or not to be called under what circumstances. We think there should be a price, a price, a price, for coming as a witness, for waiting, for making time, even though the experts are not in the same depth as their mission. It would be contrary to the Constitution that the institution considers itself a judicial institution with its expert testimony and witness testimony, and that it performs very separate criminal sanctions. With this law, it will be possible for political power to become a new stick silencer because of its organisation. With this feeling and these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0222par0065	Thank you, Mr. Haberal. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0223par0067	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0222par0070	I will submit the motion to your votes, but there is a request for a roll call, so I will perform the roll call. First, I'm going to identify the lawmakers who have requested roll call, then I'm going to vote with the electronic device. Mr. Gök, Mr. Altay, Mr. Sertel, Mr. Bayır, Mr. Yılım, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Şeyylül, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Beseler, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Akkaya, Mr. Torun, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Durmez, Mr. Karbük, Mr. Karbüyik. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 20 has been accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0224par0081	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0222par0082	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0224par0083	I asked for my place according to the Civil Code 60, but I don't think you noticed.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0222par0084	Here, I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0224par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is April 5th, so I'd like to start by celebrating the lawyer's day, lawyer's day. By the way, I'd like to take this opportunity to remember our Diyarbakır Bar President, Mr. Tahir Eflu. Mr. President, we're bringing up a lot of issues in the General Assembly, we're talking, and political parties have very strong criticism of the areas of work for the ministers, for the government. Here we have always expressed these criticisms on behalf of our party, and we will continue to express them. As you know, we brought in two genes yesterday. We've brought in our motion to propose a gene against the Minister of Family and Social Policy from what he's done and what he's said, and we've made a strong opposition here, but I'd like to say once again that even though his patent is known to be owned by AKP ministers, today, CHP President Mr Kemal Kildaroglu's statement against the Minister of Family and Social Policy is not acceptable to a woman's sexist statements. But, really, we want to say once again that the Parliamentary groups and the AKP Group -- we've seen it before -- and that lawmakers should not accept sexist approaches towards women in the male-dominant mentality. I'd like to present these sexist approaches, statements, to the General Assembly once again, no matter who is told by them, that we will never accept them as our women's group and the HDP Group. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0225par0094	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. There are three motions on Article 21: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to add the principle of equality and the declaration of equality after the 21st Article of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality. Mustafa Mit Nuri Okutan of Deniz Depboy Ismail Faruk Aksu Open Mind Desire Erdem Mehmet Erdoğan Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st Amendment of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality shall be changed in the following way. In applications filed against the institution claiming violation of the ban on discrimination 21) the opposition must prove that it does not violate the discrimination ban and the principle of equal treatment if it reveals the existence of strong signs of the application's claim on the reality and the fact that it constitutes coherences. The regulations in the law of legal reasoning on evidence and evidence are valid. Ahmet Akin Şenal Sarıhan Mahmut Tanal Honorary Namely Tahsin Tarhan Atila Sertel Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st article of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality shall be removed from the bill. İdris Baluken Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayhan Bilgen Behçet Yıldırım Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Qadri Yıldırım Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0226par0124	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0225par0125	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0227par0126	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0225par0127	Mr. Ayhan Bilgen, Kars MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0228par0131	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we're dealing with a freaky business. There's an institution, there's a law in this institution, the European Union wants us to establish an institution for equality, we're doing it through the laws of the international institutions on equality, we're making a new law. When you look at the text of the law, it's very clear that it's an eclectic thing. Human rights is not about discrimination. Segregation, of course, is one of the most important areas of human rights, but it's just one; there are a lot of different human rights violations, and if you make a law on human rights by reducing its issue to discrimination, you'll nullify today's Human Rights Institution. The beginning of Article 21 clearly begins with the term "discriminate discrimination." Now, not to the person who has a very good argument about the obligation to prove discrimination, but if there is serious evidence, if there is real evidence, if there are concrete facts, you're doing a very, very advanced, very democratic arrangement, but you're actually minimizing the area of influence, which you're saying is discrimination. There's no mechanism to make such a law, to build such a human rights institution. So, about all human rights fields, for example, would the torture claim come to the Human Rights Agency's agenda or not? If you look at Article 1 of the law, the scope covers all human rights. So, the torture claim, I think, should be on the agenda of the Human Rights Foundation. I guess no one thinks differently about it. There's no one to claim torture isn't a human rights issue. However, we're in the middle of something weird, like giving the victim the burden of proof in torture, but giving the proof of discrimination to a violator. I mean, you can afford to pass this law regardless of our warnings, there's no doubt about it, but we have to say how much of a freak is involved in the work. It is one of the revolutionary changes in the field of human rights that the burden of evidence should be given to the public official, not to the victim. You don't ask for immunity here. I mean, it's insulting for him to prove that he was abused, abused, tortured, and so on. The breacher has a duty to prove that the person does not do this, that he is not harassed, that he is not tortured, that his other freedoms are not restricted, and the logic here is that the laws, in fact, the laws, the state must protect, are human dignity, human values. Otherwise, if protecting the public officials was essential, if it was the basic logic of human rights not to wear out public officials, I guess that's not the way to describe the burden of proof. Therefore, the criminal law that we know here is not based on the arrangement of individual crimes, on the criminal activities of individuals, and if the burden of proof is known to the transgressor, it is not acceptable to limit it to exclusive discrimination, to be restricted. The European Convention on Human Rights has very clear warnings. There are compensations in many areas, including the right to live, from which Turkey had to pay. Therefore, there must be a correction, a change that will not only reduce the scope of responsibility to discrimination, non-discrimination. If Turkey had been a country like Iceland, as well as human rights issues, if it had been a country where the prime ministers had resigned because there was a claim against it in Panaman documents, maybe it wouldn't have been necessary to deal with human rights issues like this. But with a simple comparison, I'll finish my words. Today, a journalist has been issued a warrant to arrest a businessman, who has been widely talked about during the budget, for reporting on the pardon of the tax penalty, for the pardon of tax debts. The President ruled that the Academysians be removed from citizenship, starting with "what does it mean to be tried in prison?" But, again, in the Silver House these days -- based on the fact that there were no rebuttals in the press -- it was decided that a defendant who was arrested first, although the rape was certain, would be arrested first, and then a number of respectable people would intervene, and there was no possibility of blackening the evidence. This is Turkey's human rights report card. Therefore, the burden of proof must be reconsidered. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0229par0138	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Sky, you have a request, I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0230par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd just like to express my great regret about the fact that Mr. Çağlar Demirel, Vice President of the HDP Group, has been referring to our President. We are aware that a campaign is being carried out today by a former AKP minister, who said a statement for Reza Zarrab, based on a political criticism by our president. A former minister should not be involved in AKP's efforts to remove something from a minister's position in an environment that was cleared by the AKP. We expected Mr. Çağlar Demirel to pay attention to this matter.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0231par0146	He's doing what you're supposed to do, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0230par0147	This statement, which was not addressed to our president, belongs to a former AKP minister, a minister approved by the AKP (AKP) by a unanimous vote. In that respect, I wanted to make this clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0232par0149	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0233par0150	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0234par0151	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0232par0155	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st Amendment of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality shall be changed in the following way. In applications filed against the institution claiming violation of the ban on discrimination 21) the opposition must prove that it does not violate the discrimination ban and the principle of equal treatment if it reveals the existence of strong signs of the application's claim on the reality and the fact that it constitutes coherences. The regulations in the law of legal reasoning on evidence and evidence are valid. Atila Sertel (Izmir) and her friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0235par0161	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0232par0162	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0236par0163	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0232par0164	About the motion, Atila Sertel, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Sertel. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0237par0168	Mr. President, the Honorable Regents of the House, I salute you. As the Republican People's Party, we write in our motion to discuss human rights issues, exchange information, to conduct consultation meetings in parliament, public institutions and organisations, NGOs, trade unions, social and professional institutions, higher education institutions, media and publishing institutions, other people, institutions, institutions, and provinces. As a result, I think a panel appointed by the President is viewed as a panel of interim custody, where representatives of NGOs have been ignored, formed into 11 members, elected by the Council of Ministers, and elected three members by the President. It's not the law, it's the practice. Those who do not enforce existing laws, those who oppose the Constitutional Court, those who mail the Constitutional Court in slang, you are AKP people. Your mistake starts at the top. When you button the first button of the shirt wrongly, you button up to the bottom wrongly, and you're really at a point where you can't manage Turkey. Human rights and equality don't go near your AKP Group or the party. We live in a country where people have no life security, where they are arrested by organized prosecutors and judges, put in prison without question and in prison without law, without right, even grandmothers sitting at home are listening to my phone? This country, unfortunately, is your work, and unfortunately, it's a very bad painting you've created. There's violence against women in our country, incredible violence. Five women are murdered every day. Look at the statistics, 1,008 women have been killed in my country in the last three years. In my beautiful country, women are treated incredibly badly, and in the beginning, unfortunately, you can't even take precautions, and in three years 2,994 women have been injured in my country, this beautiful country. While the AKP was away, women were not killed, there were no murders in this country, nor women were injured. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] In terms of personal safety, 2015 is a year of heavy violations. In 2015 -- look at the records -- 703 people have been tortured in 78 separate cases -- 703 people have been tortured in this country. Now, you tell those who are being tortured the right to prove it. To those who have been tortured, you say: "Prove that you have been tortured." We live in a country where 128 people die in detention because of torture and abuse -- they're known to be friends, numbers -- four people die in custody, 28 people die in prison. The AKP must first internalise the fight against discrimination. There's a mindset that divides society, divides it, divides it, separates it, knows what's not its own, doesn't listen to what it's said, listens to what it's said, cries out, opposes it, tries to stop it from speaking.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0238par0178	Who's the bitch?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0237par0179	If you come up with a thousand laws as long as this head doesn't change, after you're in practice, you know that a thousand laws come and go. Article 34 of the Constitution states that everyone has the right to hold an unarmed and non-aggressive meeting and demonstration march without prior permission. A doctor friend of mine in İzmir the other day was discharged by the governor's order because Operator Dr. Fatih Duronkok asked for peace only, so that only people in favor of peace would not be killed. Fatih Duronkök is the former head of the Medical Chamber, a member of the Council of the Turkish Medical Association. Now, I'm asking you, you can't even talk to a doctor...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0239par0183	The head of Izmir (Izmir) doesn't like your performance! Tell the head of İzmir that he doesn't like your performance!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0237par0184	...who can't even stand a peaceful conversation... You're not gonna be able to do this by just screaming and trying to fix things.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0239par0186	The head of Izmir (Izmir) doesn't like your performance!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0237par0187	I bid everyone good evening, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0240par0189	Thank you, Mr. Sertel. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0241par0193	We have a roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit04spe0240par0194	Yes, there is a request for a roll call. I'll do the roll call. First, I'm going to identify the names of the MPs who requested roll call, and then I'm going to do an electronic check-up. Mr. Gök, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Altaca Kayşoglu, Mr. Sertel, Mr. Yılım, Mr. Özdiş, Mr. Özdış, Mr. Akdeş, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Beseler, Mr. Necati Yilmaz, Mr. Oğuz Kaan Salici, Mr. Hayati Tekin, Mr. Akkaya, Mr. Burcu Koksal. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... The motion is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0240par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 149. The commission is in place. The government is in place. I'm reading the final motion on Article 21: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to add the principle of equality and the declaration of equality after the 21st Article of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0242par0010	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0240par0011	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0243par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0240par0013	Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Alderman of Kahramanmarash, who wants to talk about the motion. Mr. Tor, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0244par0017	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the 21st Amendment of the Bill of the Law on the establishment of the Human Rights and Equality institution of 149 rows. I hereby salute and salute you, esteemed MPs, and our great nation who follow us. Article 21: If there are strong indications that the claim to violation of the restraining order is true, the opposition must prove that it does not violate the law of discrimination. The most important thing to focus on here is the word "denial." The word "property" goes against the purpose of the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, I'd like to address some matters before we discuss this matter. I've read the general reason for the bill, and there are good statements in general. For example, the basic rights and freedoms that frame a life worthy of human dignity, protecting, developing, taking advantage of them, being treated equally, are an essential element of our society's root values as well as our common heritage of civilization as universal norms. There are similar expressions in the continuation of the common cause. It has also been announced that the activation of human rights protection mechanisms is the main target. Nothing works the way it is written in the bill, in the law, in the Constitution, what matters is the mentality. No matter how many laws you make, no matter how many arrangements you make, no matter how many institutions you build, even punish those who discriminate, unless you destroy discrimination in the heads, favorism, the outcome will not change. How does this work? Of course it's an education. As long as you do not increase the duration and quality of education, whatever you do will not be a complete success. See, the average education period in Turkey is six and a half years. Although Ankara and Eskişehir have been in Ankara for more than eight years, some of our provinces are unfortunately under five years. In 2000, it was 5.5, and then it was only 6.5. When you look at women, it's an average of less than five years. It's a fact that the average education period is extremely low. In the same years, the average time in Norway, Germany, Italy, France has seen significant increases. The average time in Norway is 12.6 years, 12.2 years in Germany, 10.1 years in Italy, 11 years in Switzerland, 10.6 years in France. The quality of education is another aspect of the job. This is where you start. If you do not increase the duration and quality of the education, the country will continue to fall in clusters. In a country where poverty is intense, in countries where unemployment is vast, you speak of human rights, justice, and equality. Dear lawmakers, see, at the beginning of the Constitution, there is talk of equality and justice, and the honorable life of the state, and of providing people and society's prosperity, peace and happiness as the main objectives and tasks of the state are explained. Everyone is equal in the eyes of the law, and state bodies and administrative authorities must act in accordance with the principle of equality in all their transactions in front of the law. That's what the Constitution says, that's what the law says, and that's what the Great Lord says. Articles 3, 7, 8, 9, 10 of Law No. 657 contain similar provisions. Is that what happened? No. Is there a lack of discrimination in the law? No, you don't. I'd like to say that the problem is based on practice, the name of the institution you founded is Human Rights and Equality. Now, I say, "God willing, we'll begin the implementation of the law from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey." I say we start with the precious, selfless stenographer friends who are closest to the human rights facility, who are working with us, and if you see the offices, you'll see how right we are. Precious MPs, yes, I say we start with the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the establishment of human rights. I'd like to start with my stenographer friends. I wish you good evening with these thoughts and feelings, and I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0245par0027	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 21st article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 22: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 22 of the Law on Human Rights and Equality, which is listed in 149 rows, in the following way. (2) "The institution conducts consultation meetings with political parties, public institutions and organisations in parliament, NGOs, trade unions, social and professional organisations, higher education institutions, media and broadcasters, researchers and other interested persons, institutions and institutions in the centre and provinces in order to discuss human rights issues and exchange information about human rights issues. Mahmoud Tanal Tacettin Bayır Dursun Flower Necati Yılmaz Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the end of article (1) of Article 22 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149 rows. The Commission conducts regular consultations every two months at least. Desire Erdem Mustafa Mit Nuri Okutan Ismail Faruk Aksu Open his Mind Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149 be removed from the bill. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Behcet Yıldırım Yıldırım Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0246par0057	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0245par0058	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0247par0059	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0245par0060	Mr. İdris Baluken wants to talk about the motion, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0248par0063	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're discussing a bill of human rights, but we're trying to address specific issues in this Parliament's agenda almost every day about how much respect for human rights is respected in this country. For one thing, let's just say that if there's a war going on in a country...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0249par0066	Terror, terrorism, counterterrorism.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0248par0067	There's no talking about human rights there. Again, there's no talking about human rights in a country when the state of law has been completely rescinded. And perhaps more importantly, if the government has lost its right to rule in a land, and a new sense of custody has appeared over the government, then there is no mention of human rights. Look, the bill for this war is coming in front of the people of Turkey day by day. There are dozens of funerals all over the country almost every day, fires falling on the stoves. Now, this has obviously begun to disturb and force some ministers, even the Prime Minister, in the government, as well as in the Cabinet. A few days ago, the prime minister came up with an idea that talks could begin again, in terms of resolving the solution process. Of course, we're not in a position to test how intimate that view was. So if he asked us, if Mr. Prime Minister had such intentions, we could suggest to him that Mr. President, first he must call upon the court to return to his position before the Dolmabahçe agreement, because he who overturns the table after the Dolmabahçe agreement, unfortunately, is the President himself.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0250par0069	He must have knocked over that table because he needed to.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0248par0070	But, despite that, in public, I wonder if the process of resolving could begin? Can the hope of peace flourish again? Can we stop these deaths first, no matter what? A day later, after twenty-four hours, President Erdogan came out and made a full statement that would completely defeat Prime Minister Davutoglu's words, not the talk, not the speech, not the solution! He said, "We will continue this war until we destroy the last one." Now, is it possible to talk about a Prime Minister or a government with initiative in this situation? While we've been expressing our criticisms about this for a long time, we're not talking about getting into a polemic with you, we're actually saying that there should be some healthy policies about the fundamental problems of this country. Look, he spoke again today, President. So there are arrested academics, journalists, writers. The other day, Prime Minister Davutoglu criticised the academics in prison who had signed a declaration because of their academic identity and because of their opinion, I want peace, I am not a party to your war crimes. He said, "The path of judgment is open, and they must be judged without arrest." That's an extremely accurate point. I wish Mr. Davutoglu had revealed a profile of a Prime Minister who, as we all know from the very beginning, embraced all the social sectors with his academic identity, intellectual buildup, but unfortunately, he had a way of nullifying his outputs with instructions from the palace. President Erdogan says today that there is no way to accept a situation about the unresolved trial of academics who have spoken, that is, where there is no way to accept that they are being tried without arrest, and they are, of course, guilty and arrested. So this isn't going away. Of course, the Prime Minister himself must answer. If that were to happen, the President would likely launch a liquidation process on the Prime Minister, as with many of the founders of the AKP. That's how we understood it, that's how we interpreted it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0251par0074	The purge of terrorists, the terrorists!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0252par0075	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the end of article (1) of Article 22 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149 rows. The Commission conducts regular consultations every two months at least. Nuri Okumutan (Isparta) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0253par0083	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0252par0084	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0254par0085	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0252par0086	Nuri Okutan, Isparta MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Reader. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0255par0090	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party regarding Article 22 of Turkey's Bill of Human Rights and Equality Act 149. I salute everyone with respect and respect. The main reason for this law is to take measures against human rights violations, discrimination and abuse, and to preserve the rights and freedoms of the person envisioned in the Constitution. Against whom? We're going to take these organizational institutions against the strong side, and much more so here -- in international areas, and in our country -- it's based on the protection of these rights against the state, and it requires that this institution take the state and be on the side of the people, but it is expected that, for this reason, this institution should be autonomous, both administratively and in terms of the budget, be autonomous and independent. That's what the law says. Now it's gone, it's the law, but how autonomous it can be, it needs to be discussed. For example, here, there's a resuming authority for this board and this resuming authority, if he's independent, he can take the government against him, he's taking the people with him, and he's taking the government against him. But since there's no resen, it may be possible for the government to move to the blacklisted institutions and individuals. We're not just talking about this government, it's gonna come out. The government of that day may require that anyone be autonomous of this institution and be able to resist it. It's actually a good thing that this resen is able to study, but when you think about it as an independent, it's definitely going to be a very negative picture. There's another thing: don't report. Reporting, Mr. President, this institution reports, reports to Parliament, reports to the Prime Minister. In fact, it's a sign of addiction. Reports are made, and this institution is actually a law enforcement agency at a human rights point and an acretity institution, and anyone who wants to take advantage of this institution's reports can take advantage of it if the President wants to take advantage of it, and he can take advantage of it if the President wants to take advantage of it. In a private report business -- we're actually seeing them in all the preparation of this law -- giving out some kind of blue bead, so let's give a little bit of heart to Mr. President, here's a little bit more noise than the House, so let's give the Speaker a report. And so on and so forth, I think there's a simple, sterile logic going on. This report doesn't mean anything. The report must be prepared so that the world can take advantage of us and wait to see when this report will be published. In that regard, I think this report is also an approach to handing out a blue bead. On the other hand, you know there are city and county human rights boards. Now, what is written here is written here in the law, which can be written in the code, is considered a law clause, but very important, referring to the district and county human rights boards for the protection of human rights and violations of human rights -- which are very important -- to a generality, the Prime Minister's generality. It's not right. So it's got to be in the law, and if it's going to be a generalization, it's going to have to be in its own way. Perhaps there are similar errors in other substances. It would be more constructive for the government to come to us with a bill of law that is more careful, more meticulous, more prepared, away from translation, with such an important subject, with its language, with its logic. I salute everyone with these feelings with respect and respect.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0256par0097	Thank you, Mr. Reader. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, I'm going to read the final motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 22 of the Law on Human Rights and Equality, which is listed in 149 rows, in the following way. (2) "The institution conducts consultation meetings in central and provinces with political parties, public institutions and organisations in parliament, NGOs, trade unions, social and professional organisations, higher education institutions, media and publishing institutions, researchers and other interested persons, institutions and organisations in the region and in the cities to discuss human rights issues and exchange information about human rights issues. Necati Yilmaz (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0257par0105	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0256par0106	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0258par0107	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0256par0108	About the motion Necati Yilmaz, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0259par0112	Mr. President, Mr. Court, members of the Council, I salute you. I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 22 of Turkey's Bill of Human Rights and Equality. First of all, I'm very happy to be with our friends from different beliefs in our country, from different ethnic origins, and again the number of women in our Parliament has increased. In these days we're discussing discrimination and equality, I consider the presence of our MP from all faiths and origins here to be the life and meaning of our republic's founding philosophy. However, despite this pluralist structure of our Parliament, I regret to inform you that you are closed to pluralism, participation and the functioning of the common mind in the parliamentary work. Sadly, you have maintained that attitude on this bill as well. With this motion, we would like to use the opinions of political parties in the committee's work, at least in the consultation process. Honourable MPs, we're meeting with the Turkish Bill of Human Rights and Equality Act. The general reason for the bill is that three main objectives have been laid out: the protection of human rights, the establishment and activation of the national prevention mechanism against discrimination, the fight against torture and abuse. Despite its motive, we do not see the government and AKP Group as sincere in achieving such goals. You created this sense of insecurities in our parliamentary work by preventing the opposition from contributing and participating. You didn't want the establishment to conform to international standards like the Paris Principles. You have given full control of the board to the President and the Council of Ministers. You've left civil society, different parts of society out of the administration process. We know that the largest organised power that threatens social equality and human rights is the state device. We want to understand who you're going to fight human rights against by taking control of this institution under the control of the non-biased President. Under the circumstances, I'm asking what's going to change after this bill is passed. There's nothing wrong with child abuse. Will you stop looking at it with understanding? Gender discrimination is against nature. Will you avoid approaching its words? From now on, will we be able to see that our fellow Alevi-believers are also governors or governors? We're wondering if we'll have a second Alevi elementary school principal in the entire capital. Will our citizens who have received the highest scores in written exams, but who have been eliminated for discrimination in interviews, be able to feel the principle of equality? Again, will the news of the fast beating and the fast murder that repeats every year in Ramadan be history? We're looking forward to all of this. However, we answer these questions, of course, no. I wish we had answers, yes. I wish we could have responded, but we can't. It's because of your segregation policies, because discrimination is in your nature. Congressmans, you love the AKP of Kurd. You seek the Flame to pledge; you like those who abuse religion, not the believers. Forgive me, the uglier, the Armenian. You've got the others, you've got the others. For you, there's a party, there's a citizen. You always want to have your way in the House. The government is yours, and the President is yours alone; the judgment must be yours; all public institutions; the forests must be yours; the streams and the streams; yours and the subterranean assets. We should have the tax, the budget's yours. Prisons should be ours, malls should be yours. The freedoms must be yours, the bodies torn apart by bullets and bombs are ours. Yeah, we're the others, you've been around. You wrong-doers! We were ever patient, so ours is the hope, and yours is the fear.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0260par0121	Look at the date, the date.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0259par0122	We continue to smile at the future with hope. Dear lawmakers, it's April 5th, Lawyer's Day. I'd like to honor Mr. Tahir Eflu, the president of the Diyarbakır Bar, a human rights advocate recently taken from us by terror. And again, we need free defense in a process where the prosecution works under instructions, court decisions are not respected and criticized. With these feelings, I salute our defenses, our lawyers, in their struggle. Thank you. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0261par0128	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0262par0131	Request roll call.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0261par0132	I will submit the motion to your votes, but there is a request for a roll call. So I'm going to do the roll call first. And for that, I will identify the members of lawmakers who have requested it by name. And then, of course, with the electronic device, we'll do the roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Altaca Kayşoglu, Mr. Men, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Yılım, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Amir, Mr. Öz, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Yıldız, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Division, Mr. Akyıldı, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Arık. Yeah, we got the number 20. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 22nd article is accepted. There are three motions on the 23rd article, and I'm having them read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act number 149 (b) be replaced in the following way. ..."any donation and assistance to the institution." Desire Erdem Mustafa Mit Nuri Okutan Ismail Faruk Aksu Open his Mind Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment, or I'm going to have the motions read. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 23 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality, which is currently in session 149 rows. İdris Baluken Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Ahmet Yıldırım Behçet Yıldırım Qadri Yıldırım Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı The signatures of the other motion are: Şenal Sarıhan Tacettin Bayır Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Murat Emir Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Mahmut Tanal Burcu Koksal Necati Yilmaz Özgür Special Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0263par0174	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0261par0175	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0264par0176	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0261par0177	About one of the proposals the Commission and the government disagreed with, Mr. Serdal Külcuoğlu, Mersin MP will speak. Here you go, Mr. Wellencuoğlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0265par0181	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 23rd Amendment of the Turkish Law on Human Rights and Equality. On this occasion, I salute all of you with love. Dear lawmakers, as well as the institution has financial autonomy, must be transparent and manageable, need to be known by whom the institution will be audited and whether it will be subject to court supervision. The institution, which has to be independent in every way, is founded on addiction while it is being built. Eight members of the institution are appointed by the Council of Ministers and three members by the President, so all members will be appointed by the AKP and will be called Human Rights and Equality. Unfortunately, that doesn't sound believable or even-minded to us. Dear lawmakers, on the basis of this bill, which aims to create a single and powerful institutional roof that will serve as a national prevention mechanism against the protection of human rights, the fight against discrimination, torture and abuse, has not been implemented, nor has the opinion of any NGOs been adopted. Therefore, it is clear that the law that will be passed is not sincere and that the government has no opinion on human rights and equality principles. The number of children sexually abused during the AKP, which has ruled the country for 13 years, has been severely increased, while the guilty have been protected or sentenced to very little. In particular, the developments following what happened in Karaman are thought - inspiring. Not only in Karaman, but in many other counties, we were surprised by the protective attitude associated with the foundation of similar cases. When it comes to children, the running water should stop, but the explanations and experiences have become almost encouraging. Anyone who brings a criticism on this issue faces the reaction of the ruling members, tries to be silenced, or is under police pressure. Women's murders and violence against women can't be prevented, but more and more. Records are being broken in racial, ethnic, religious, and gender-based discrimination, and people are excluded because of their religious faith, religion, or ethnic origin, and are booed in the squares. Religious lessons are mandatory in schools, and girls and boys are trying to get into separate schools and classrooms. Our disabled are subject to discrimination in employment and daily lives. The judiciary has been politicalized, preventing everyone from taking equal advantage of justice and law on the basis of human rights and equality. Honourable lawmakers continue discrimination in access to education, as minorities' rights and freedoms were not protected during the AKP period. Finally, the event that came up in Mersin, shows where we stand in education and discrimination. The protocol between the National Board of Education and il mufti has been decided to teach our elementary school students about the mosque of mosque imams. What is it, rather than discrimination, that such a practice is approved in Mersin, where many different beliefs and sects live together? The power must quickly overcome and punish those responsible for these and similar approaches that disrupt discrimination and equality. It is not credible to us that 13 years after the Constitutional Court verdicts were not recognised, the doctors were killed, the green was killed, nature was slaughtered, journalists were imprisoned for their thoughts, opposition businessmen, newspapers, televisions were delivered to trustees for false reasons, the institution, whose artists were not free, would be set up thirteen years later and be appointed by the AKP, and would do the right things. Dear friends, the logic of the establishment of Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution, which will work in any way depending on the government, is correct, but the AKP is unable to achieve its goal with its approach. That's why I'm saying that we don't find the bill sincere in this way, and I'm paying all of you respect.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0266par0191	Thank you, Mr. Wellencuoglu. Ahmet Yıldırım wants to talk about the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0267par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're talking about a bill on the Turkish Human Rights and Equality Foundation, yes, but I think what we can all agree on is that there must be a major cultural issue in a society where a development of human rights can't be categorized by making changes on the laws, which will only serve as a tool, and that the concept of human rights and equality can be established in a society is a question of culture. If not, we face a reality in this country that we can't get any distance from human rights and equality, even if we write on all public institutions. Unfortunately, we're going through the days of witnessing the fact that the blood flowing, the death of young people, the destruction of cities, the fact that we're all blackened out as one. We're going through the days when evil becomes very, very ordinary. Especially Hannah Arendt, the inventor of the concept of regularization of evil, says: "Totaliter, who is being mediated by the authorities, weakens his thinking ability, loses his ability, and starts to commit crimes, becomes ordinary. In this case, one begins to obey orders by never questioning himself. The regularization of evil involves the risk that a collective villain can take command at the end of a complex process. Hannah Arendt also describes the generalization of evil and the vagueness of good as Hannah Arendt states that it is a matter of watching evil and silence that is the uncertainty of good. Unfortunately, where there are killers and victims, there are audiences. To be silent and not to be able to speak is to be ordinary of evil. This is the dangerous uncertainty of good, the killing of the audience, and the watching of the killer. I don't believe that anyone in this House has the sincerity of seeing these evils as ordinary in the last five or six months of the country. I can't imagine believing that the members of the legislature and the executive members are enjoying this painting, that they're happy. As a matter of fact, it is with great regret that we have been watching the interference from the palace in recent times, especially as the Prime Minister has been trying to express and trying to express that the painting of evil has been reversed. Yes, the government may not want to take a step forward, but the government's immediate suppression of any statement of kindness that the government wants to take, to be honest, often serves to understate the national will expressed by the ruling party. One other thing, especially, is that evil has become so ordinary that it's probably not a pleasant situation for all of us today that the language that Mr. President had about people who don't think like him, especially those who don't think like him, who don't care about political and social events as he does, has reached the level of deeming of citizenship. For God's sake, does evil become so ordinary? What do you mean, "don't be a citizen"? Is it possible that even if the President is the person in question, an individual may be in the hands of a citizen? In a constitutional order, it is necessary for all of us to object to the fact that the concept of disembowelment in a legal state is so common that the concept of evil can be used so easily. This is the final point in which different ways of thinking about social events in terms of the President, the Prime Minister, the minister, or any of us, is that the person's right to be a citizen is taken away. As a matter of fact, I think a lot of people around here have something to say about what's happened in the last few months. That's why I think it's too much of a culture for budgets, for institutions to be built, for real estate to be assigned to them, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0268par0207	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0269par0209	Mr. Yıldırım, in a very different context and in a non-compatible way with Mr. Prime Minister's statements and from here, there's a kind of deep contradiction between the President and the Prime Minister, in a sense they're following two different policies, saying that they're following two different policies, has turned reality upside down. This is an open taunt for our group, and I want to talk about 69.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0268par0210	Mr. Bostanci, I have to ask each time: If you do not give me an explanation of the involvement of this bullying with your group, because of the bullying -- the government is here -- I promise the government if the government asks for a promise.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0270par0211	No, it concerns the group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0269par0212	Mr. President, this bullying... the Prime Minister, the President...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0268par0213	But I'm waiting for this sentence, Mr. Bostanci, and I'm waiting for this sentence. See, Article 69 says that the government will be given the word in case of bullying the government. He's being bullied by the government, so if you want a promise, I can't do it, but it's an insult to our group at the same time, so...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0269par0215	The President-General, the President-General...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0271par0216	He has a political personality, Mr. President, the Prime Minister of our party.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0268par0217	Dear friends, don't teach me my work. I have a liberal approach to this, but I also have to apply the Civil Code. I specifically ask all my friends: I mean, there's a challenge, I promise... No, you're going to explain the teasing to me, it's going to go into the transcripts. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci. I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0272par0223	Mr. President, dear friends, what our President, Mr. Prime Minister, says is that if all terrorists leave Turkey, leave with their weapons, again in this country where there is no conflict, no death, no murder, no massacre, no threat to the people, if the PKK puts a gun down, then there will already be peace in this country, then we can talk to everyone about everything. That's what he said.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0273par0224	He said that eight years ago.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0274par0225	That's not what the President says.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0272par0226	If it is referred to here, the PKK will all leave Turkey, lay down its weapons, and give up its initiative, its efforts to achieve results in terrorism again. When that happens, of course, Turkey will have an environment where peace, peace, quiet will come and everyone will be happy and happy. The President is also talking about the fight against terrorism. Without a terrorist, there's no need to fight, Mr. Baluken. We don't have to kill terrorists. As long as peace comes to this country, peace comes to this country, as long as the people of this country don't face the scourge of terror. That's what we want. (APPLAUSE) Otherwise, someone's gotta be a terrorist, so let's take them down; there's no story like that. It's the same as the President and the Prime Minister said. For the peace and quiet of this country, if a terrorist has a challenge, it's a struggle against him. Terrorists walk away, lay down their weapons, and if they give up this way, it's a good thing for Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0275par0229	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0276par0230	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0275par0231	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0276par0232	Mr. Bostanci has returned to our group saying that there was a separation between Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President, that we were engaged in an effort, but that the statements were very different from what we said. He used our name, so don't tease...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0275par0233	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0276par0235	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. Mr. Bostanci actually has an intellectual savings that he understands very well. So, when you read the sentences of Prime Minister Davutoglu, and then you read that exit of President Erdoğan, which made the move and set the course, you can see that we are telling the truth in a very comfortable way. As a matter of fact, what do you mean, there's a problem with the arrested academics today, referring to Mr. Davutoglu again, other than the solution process? He himself says, "How can academics bring criticism like prisoners on trial?" I mean, it's obvious. It's not just a matter of Mr. Davutoglu or the President. So, our proxy has just expressed, that Mr. Numan Survivmi has responded to the exclusion of those who are not his own -- from what we read in the press -- could it be so? He said, "I can't do that." He said, "I can't do that." He said, "I can't do that." He said, "I can't do that." Therefore, it is clear that there is a difference of opinion between the government and the palace. What's painful is that this difference of opinion comes before our people as a price. We've been lobbying with a lot of congressmen, and there's a lot of lawmakers in this country who are uncomfortable with the progress, who want the blood to stop flowing, but unfortunately when they come to this stand, they can't say that, so they can't express their own political opinions here against the palace, so there's no solution, Mr. Bostanci. You don't have to deny it, it's a very clear, very clear issue. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0277par0241	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Now, I'm going to read the final motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of the Law Bill of Human Rights and Equality of Turkey (149 rows) of the meeting be changed (1) (b) in the following manner. ..."any donation and assistance to the institution." Nuri Okumutan (Isparta) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0278par0252	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0277par0253	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0279par0254	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0280par0255	Motive...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0277par0256	I'm reading the reason: Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality shall be referred to as "the incomes of the Kurum" (b) in Article 23 (i.e. the income of the institution). This provision will be able to drive the institution into a monetary operation, incompatible with the mandate and responsibilities of the institution. Because as a result of this arrangement, the institution will be involved in a mutual economic relationship with its private and legal people. Therefore, this provision must be removed from the draft text. However, the 21st article, titled "Influences of the Foundation of Human Rights" of Turkey No. 6332, includes all donations and assistance to the institution within the income of the institution. According to Article 40 of Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018 under the title "Forgiving and Aids," no donation or assistance can be collected under similar names by any real or legal person in exchange for public service or associated with public services. All donations and donations to public administrations are registered. Non-inflicted donations and donations are registered under the following legislation. A conditional donation and assistance to public administrations for public use is registered as a grant to an arrangement that will be set up on the basis of a budget, provided that the provisions of the 28/3/2002. There can be no transfer from this grant to any other organization beyond purpose." As part of the definition of donation and assistance in Law 5018, it would be a more appropriate approach for donations and benefits to be among the institution's revenues. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 23 is accepted. There are three motions on the 24th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 24 of the Law on Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey, which is currently being discussed in 149 rows, to the following way. The Council (MADDE (24) - 1 determines the need for formal statistical collection in which areas there is an official need for the fight against discrimination. As part of the official statistical programme, Turkey's statistical institution is responsible for the collection of statistical information needed to show all the dimensions of the segregation symptoms in a system that will allow constant and complete access to the data." Ahmet Akin Şenal Sarıhan Mahmut Tanal Honorary Nameless Tahsin Tarhan Gaye Cullier Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to Article 24 of the Law Bill of Human Rights and Equality of Turkey, which is currently in session in 149 rows. Ismail Faruk Aksu Mind Openba Deniz Depboylı Mustafa Mit Nuri Okutın Ruhi Ersoy ▪ The statistics are reported to the public on a monthly basis. Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 24 of Article 24 of Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Act 149, which is currently in session. İdris Baluken Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Behçet Yıldırım Kurdri Yıldırım Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0281par0290	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0277par0291	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0282par0292	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0277par0293	İdris Baluken, Diyarbakır MP on a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0283par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all again. Since then, why are we trying to explain why it is not believable to discuss a law on human rights here? So if there's no law state, you know, if you're getting a big war picture somewhere in a country, there's no human rights if the government in a country is completely under duress. Instead of going out and saying that this is not going to happen with your own thesis, you're just defending the President in a defensive reflex. I mean, for one thing, this approach isn't right.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0284par0299	Don't talk in the linguine!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0283par0300	Look, there is no state of law. We say there is no state of law. So I'm here today to announce the statements of your MPs on a television program that they attended yesterday. They say, "It's up to us, it's up to us, it's up to us to conduct and it's up to us." A congressman who's a member of the Constitutional Commission...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0284par0301	Will he be attached to the kandil?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0283par0302	Is it up to you? Here, you're confessing, look. You, now, admit that the law, the execution, the judgment is on the AKP.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0285par0304	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0283par0305	We don't say that it's related to Kandil, but if you say that there is no separation of these forces, that there is no democracy and there is no state of law here.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0286par0306	Are you attached to us?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0283par0307	Here, you need to come out and explain why you're destroying this state of law. I mean, I don't know the decisions of the Constitutional Court in one country. If he says, "If he calls the local courts against him to resistance, "put the law aside from the governors, against the governors, against the law." If he says, "You can't talk about the state of law there." I mean, I'm surprised at the position of the main opposition party, and on such an important matter, here, we didn't find out what the main opposition party was thinking. When I bring this up, the Republican People's Party, which has taken the authority from the public as the main opposition to oversee the separation of forces, represents the task of controlling Turkey's rule of law state and democracy at the highest level. So there's a very serious problem here. The idea of a government that doesn't own its own government, a main opposition party that remains silent that the law between these men has been completely eliminated, and a country that's been driven to a cliff every day like a car with a broken brakes. We need to get out of here as soon as possible. And as long as we don't do that, no matter how much legal regulation is made about human rights, there's no way you have any credibility. Now, in this committee, you've given the full government and the President's initiative. So in a situation like this, how is it possible for a board of directors to oversee the rights violations you've established by undermining the state of law, disregarding the democratic achievements of this country? Is that even possible? So how will members of the Human Rights and Equality Committee objectively reflect their own views in a situation where even the Prime Minister can't speak out against the President and he can't back his own opinion? You all know that's not possible. Therefore, when the road is near, these wrongs need to be turned around. You can't compromise on the state of law. We must not compromise on the norms of universal democracy. You must remember once again the universal principles of human rights. The government's administrative structure, which causes current problems, must be re-examined by giving authority to locals with a sense of governance. As long as you don't do this, you're only here to answer us. And we believe that these answers have no credibility from our side or from our people. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0287par0311	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0288par0312	Mr. President, there was a statement from Mr. Baluken, referring to a statement that the law, the execution, and the judiciary are based on the EC PARTI.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0283par0313	Your congressman told me from behind. He said, "Will he be bound by us, and will he be bound by the Kandil?"
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0287par0315	Congressman, one second, sir, this is Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0288par0316	He repeated the same speech. So I took this promise to re-record my same answer on the books. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0287par0318	Well, thank you, Mr. Botanci. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0289par0320	Sir, in his speech, Mr. Baluken stated that the Republican People's Party was silenced, and that the separation of forces was brought up when the law was discussed, and that he had done nothing.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0287par0321	Here you go, Mr. Sky. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0289par0326	Mr. President, we've been trying to carry out our warning duties on the Human Rights and Equality Foundation bill we've been discussing. There's been a mistake, and we're trying to prevent it. We desire that this law, called the Human Rights and Equality Foundation, should be passed. During our country's negotiations on the European Union, we are thinking that any healing step, including visa exemption, should be developed in favour of Turkey as soon as possible. But this law doesn't cover it that way. What is the People's Party of the Republic trying to do? If you say to the ruling party, you did wrong four years ago when you took out the Human Rights Institution Act, and now you're doing wrong by removing this institution in this way. We say, "This institution will not be accepted by the United Nations and by the European Union in particular as the national prevention mechanism, the torture and the anti-crime institution." You are not fulfilling one of the European Union criteria by enforcing this law. We're trying to stop it. We're actually trying to help you. You don't understand. On the other hand, I am returning to him the exact words of Mr. Bauken. The Republican People's Party has always carried out a warning mission on both the separation of forces and the strengthening of our country's Parliament. We don't want to be the cause of the conflict between the AKP and the HDP, Mr. Bauken. If you have a dispute with the AKP, please do not supply the Republican People's Party and do not falsely accuse the Republican People's Party. You're the one who's guilty of this. You can come if you want, and you can answer that right here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0331	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0332	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0336	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0337	Mr. President, Mr. Gök has made a heavy challenge by saying that we had used CHP to fight the AKP and HDP.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0338	There's no bullying here, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0339	Mr. President, there's an open taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0340	Now, if you take every word, every sentence as a taunt, there's no...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0341	Mr. President, we're taking the CHP...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0342	Just a second, Mr. Baluken, I'm not finished. Wait a second...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0343	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0344	Members of parliament, the 69th article is clear: those who have been referred to as a different opinion than those who were bullied or proposed to him, the political party groups, the MPs, the commission -- whatever -- can demand and answer. Now, if we take every political criticism as a taunt, we can't discuss the main issue, Mr. Baluken. I don't see any bullying here.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0346	Mr. President, you listened carefully to the vice president of the group, and I observed you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0347	I listened. Look, Mr. Group Vice President said...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0348	The deputy leader of the group said that we used the CHP to argue between us and the AKP, but if we have anything to say about it, we must come and say it from the stand. As I stepped down from the stand, I clearly picked on him. He said.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0349	Mr. Bauken, look, just because Mr. Sky invited you to the stand doesn't mean I have to promise. Mr. Baluken, I beg you...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0350	No, there's teasing our group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0351	Please consider the meaning of the word in that dictionary at the Turkish Language Foundation of Tagtas: An expression offending the opposite is a sentence of taunting.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0352	Mr. President, we are not some political party that would use one of the republic's radical parties to our political infertility. I mean, there's an obvious tease about it.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0353	Mr. Baluken, if you'd like to make a promise under the 60th Amendment, I can. You accused the Republican People's Party Group of breaking up forces and being silent on certain issues...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0354	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0355	...you've brought a review in this direction. Mr. Gök said he returned them to you as Deputy Director of the Group, saying, "Don't use us to argue with the Justice and Development Party." Now, I don't see any bullying in that sentence.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0356	So, how come you're not picking on me?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0357	I'm filling all your demands at the smallest moment I've ever seen the bullying. You know that.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0358	Mr. President, then, when Mr. Levent is returned to us for the exact same reason that you promised to give us, you don't consider him a reason to answer from the stand. We can't possibly accept that.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0359	Look, here's what he returned...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0360	So he's charging us with silence in the policies against the AKP, which is very clear.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0361	Look, now restitution of sentences is not a taunt, Mr. Baluken. If you now evaluate a political party group with a sentence that might mean taunting when you say critical, then naturally that political party group has a say in bullying. I have to hand it over. And as much as you've asked for, because of bullying, I've often given you -- I haven't given it by choice -- because I interpret the concept of bullying broadly. It's a political criticism here, there's no bullying here, Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0362	Mr. President, then I'd like a statement from my...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0363	I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0367	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I don't understand that after you've explained the reason, Mr. CHP, I don't think you should take the assessment that you promised the group's deputy as an insult to us based on the reason you promised us. I've had to turn my insistence on this taunt from previous sessions to take a pledge from your place in the Civil Code of 60, out of respect for your neutral, righteous and democratic stance. I mean, if there was another Deputy Speaker sitting there, I might be able to address your assessment as a subject of a procedure debate, because Mr. Group Vice President says very clearly that we are in a political position to exploit CHP's disputes with the AKP. Whereas my point from the stand is very clear. I live, conduct, and judgment are now up to us. The principle of separation of forces has been completely eliminated. When I referred to AKP MPs in the form of the AKP, I mentioned some dangerous sentences in terms of our democratic future here, I didn't hear a different assessment from both the Republican People's Party and other political parties, so in the time I was here, they didn't even use any sentences. So when I said, "They are Shuspus," I said, "This is what happened today." But, as I was saying, to consider him a tease, to refer to us as a different political criticism...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0370	I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0291par0372	... isnotcompatible with your previous democratic stances. However, I take it that's your personal interpretation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0374	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Congressmans, dear friends, you see how flexible I am about the application under Article 69. You're also witness to the fact that I've respected the rights of groups, the rights of group presidents, for all eternity. I'll give you that rights, believe me, in a matter I consider to be the least bit of a tease. So my evaluation means nothing but that. Last night, Mr. Bostanci, for example, asked for a statement because of bullying, and I said to him, "There is no bullying here." I said, "I did not make that promise." At times, I have not made this promise to other political party leaders; the Republican People's Party Group knows it, and the National Party Party Group knows it, and the ruling party group last experienced this example last night. I approach all political parties, all MPs, equally and fairly. My shortcomings may be what I'm missing, but I'm trying to fix it by asking for the time-to-time transcripts -- if there's anything I missed. Other than that, I have no idea. My goal here is to ensure a free, democratic debate, an environment of discussion, and I have no intention of reducing anyone's say-so. Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to Article 24 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149. ▪ The statistics are reported to the public on a monthly basis. Open her Mind (Sachariah) and her friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0292par0389	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0390	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0293par0391	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0294par0392	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0393	I'm reading the reason: Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality shall organise issues concerning the institution's need for formal statistical collection in which areas to combat discrimination and the implementation of its work. The area of human rights and equality is a current area in our country that concerns each individual member of society. This area has been emphasised on social, political and legal importance by being protected and secured by constitutional provisions. Given that such an important and current area itself is a constant scene of new developments, statistical data will be a factor that enhances the clarity and public awareness of the issue. The statistical data of the institution must be released to the public each month. An arrangement for this requirement is being brought under our recommendation. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm now reading the final motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 24 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149 in the following way. 31/03/2016 The Council (MADDE (24) - 1 determines the need for formal statistical collection in which areas there is an official need for the fight against discrimination. As part of the official statistical programme, Turkey's statistical institution is responsible for the collection of statistical information needed to show all the dimensions of the segregation symptoms in a system that will allow constant and complete access to the data." Ahmet Akın (Fishesir) and his friends I'll ask the Commission and the government if they agree. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0295par0405	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0406	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0296par0407	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0290par0408	It's Gaye Eskişehir MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Niceer. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0297par0412	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group regarding our motion on Article 24 of the Law on Human Rights and Equality in Turkey. I salute the grand jury. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by referring to the freedom of expression, which is the most basic human right. According to Article 25 of the Constitution, everyone has freedom of thought and opinion. So no one, for whatever reason or purpose, can be forced to express their thoughts and opinions, be condemned and blamed for their thoughts and beliefs. In the 26th article of the Constitution, everyone has the right to express and publish their thoughts and opinions in words, writing, pictures, or other ways alone or collectively. This freedom includes freedom to receive or give information without interference from official authorities. Dear lawmakers, what right are we talking about, what equality? Look, we're talking about a bill for the establishment of a board that sounds very nice today, the Human Rights and Equality Board of Turkey. Today, our Constitution has been suspended on freedom of expression, especially the bans and pressures on academics who have been tried to be discredited by people with insulting words, such as the traitor of the state, the blackguard, the hair in the milk. In an environment where freedom of speech, freedom of speech, freedom of thought is destroyed, which board are you talking about, which board is working? You're going to create this kind of pressure, you're going to appoint the board members who will be elected, and then you're going to expect them to be independent. Unlike a committee to be formed under these conditions, it will legitimize human rights violations. With his so-called investigations and decisions, there will be a committee that will personally exonerate those who have violated human rights and discriminated against them. Our goal and what needs to happen is to activate mechanisms that protect human rights. Dear friends, let's stop pretending to be brides. First, let's create the democratic environment that needs to be created so that the board can work independently and freely. Let's give freedom of speech together. Before this bill came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the opinion of NGOs had to be taken. Let's not kid ourselves, good lawmakers, the reason that NGOs aren't getting their opinions is because there's no freedom of expression in this country. Under the principles of the United Nations Paris Principles on the status of national institutions established for the development and protection of human rights, NGOs must be involved in the creation of such institutions. Look, NGOs started campaigning and asking you, asking all of us, why are you in such a hurry? Why didn't you get the opinion of NGOs for this bill? They ask, "If you have received these opinions, what opinion of NGOs have you taken into account?" Without a pluralistic consultation process, it is evident that this law will not fulfill the expected function of the institution. Mr. Secretary, the esteemed members of the Commission, rush into evil. Without participating democracy, there's no use in quick work. This bill must be extradited to Turkey's Grand National Assembly commissions, and NGOs should be re-assembled by the involvement of the joint partners. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0298par0424	Thank you, Mr. Niceer. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0299par0428	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0298par0429	There is a request for roll call, and the roll call will be carried out before the vote. First, I'm going to identify the names of the lawmakers who have requested roll call, and then I'm going to do the inspection with the electronic device. Mr. Gök, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Altaca Kayşoglu, Mr. Man, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Çayım, Mr. Çayelier, Mr. Emir, Mr. Öz, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Şimmek, Mr. Eren Erdem, Mr. Tuncer. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 24th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 25th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following amendment to Article (3) of Article 25 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149, which is being discussed. "....................................................................................................... An administrative fine shall be imposed on the person and the organisations under the first joke, which does not comply in the period specified for no good reason, despite warnings of obligations laid out in the article. It's about administrative fines issued in this joke. The sentence of the joke is carried out." Ahmet Akin Şenal Sarıhan Mahmut Tanal Honorary Namely Tahsin Tarhan Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 25 of Turkey's Act on Human Rights and Equality Act 149 be removed from the draft text. Spiritual Ersoy İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Mit Nuri Reader Mind Opens Sea Depboy The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Behcet Yıldırım Yıldırım Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Now I'm going to ask the Commission and the government if they agree to the same motions. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0300par0468	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0298par0469	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0301par0470	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0298par0471	Ayhan Bilgen, Kars MP. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0302par0475	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to bring to your attention once again what I just said about the 21st Amendment. Again, we're just talking about a restraining order or a right to fine him. So we're setting up a board, the board is tasked with violations of all human rights, but the sentence is based solely on violation of the law of discrimination. Of course, it's an important step in the world in terms of Turkey's legal order and human rights tradition -- there is a step in which the door should be opened in some way, because of the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which, as I've just stated, has been opened to the European Court of Human Rights for some time, and if a claim of compensation comes to light, it's actually an important statement of will in order to impose a political position against human rights violations, but in this arrangement, it's a fact that it's been declared that it's been imposed on the rights violations of the law, as I have just stated, because it's been opened to this commission, as it's been issued for a warning, that it's been declared, that it's still a duty to enforced. Dear lawmakers, the envoy is subjected to a violation of four topics -- four titles in international legislation -- in the case of a deliberate, flawed, negligent or reckless violation of the duties of competent public officials -- the violation of the public official when it comes to one of them -- and the turning of him into a fine of money. There are actually serious restrictions on the prosciutto right now, there are serious de facto obstructions, but there is a good example that we know of, in fact, a bad example, a great shame, a black stain in Turkey's political history, but I'm just saying it's a good example for the proprietary. Because of Hrant Dink's murder, the public officials' flaws in the period are being fined $100,000 in compensation on the grounds of negligence, and this is a decision to have the estate of the period transferred to the administration, but one of the officers who was drafted is being promoted to the ministry while he was still governor, and the police commissioner is being appointed as governor to another city. So in fact, when you don't put political will behind a very important, very critical, very valuable arrangement, a deterrent, effective arrangement, and you don't put a strong, decisive political attitude behind it, it's a pity that you're dysfunctional. Today, if we don't take a comprehensive view of public officials' responsibility, even in very human areas, such as children who have been abused, children who have been abused, women who have been abused, women who have been abused, and women who may have suffered a lot of violence, then let's rule out the possibility that public officials may have intended to be here, if we don't consider it in general terms of responsibility, if we don't, then let's put aside the possibility that they are here, but if there are neglects or inconsequentialities, in this case, there should be a right to be a right for a right to a criterion based on all these kinds of violations. Dear lawmakers, there are many examples, there's no way to count them here, but, for example, the addresses of women's shelters are being published online because of the fact that our city's tenders for women's shelters are open. Now, it's like our tender legislation is all so transparent, it's all so obvious, we only have to publish the addresses of the women's shelters, we're posting their addresses online. When you consider the threat to which the asylum seekers are applying here, the publication of these addresses is a crime in itself, and in fact, I'd like to point out to all of you that, after a while, it will be responsible for the breach. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0303par0482	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Ruhi Ersoy, MP of Osmaniye, wants to talk about the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0304par0487	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the Veteran Assembly. I'd like to read a passage from St. Ataturk, the founding leader of our republic, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, which means to show leniency and tolerance to the people who are going to be the founders of our republic. No one has the right to allow it, and neither should you, says Gazi in a great Ataturk statement addressed to Parliament. I wanted to share it with the High Council because I found it to be a fitting expression for the spirit of time. Dear lawmakers, what I have promised you is the implementation of fines. What is this? A fine of between £1,000 and $15,000 can be applied to the units in which violations are found regarding Human Rights and Equality. Now, it may be necessary to apply the fine and get the status, but it's also obvious that there's a problem between the bureaucrat and the enforcer who has to do the procedure at the point of execution here, and the problem of confronting them. In fact, the existence of this board... are we doing this because it's one of the institutions that we need to build on European standards, or are we really going to conduct an sanction on a person's rights violation through this board... by sincerely overseeing the human rights violation in Turkey? If that's what we're concerned about, we think we've got some work to do before we do, as the National Movement Party. What's to be done before that? Where are we on our basic values, the education of values that exist in our acquish? Starting from national education to cultural politics, human rights in everyday life practices have become an environment of almost cultural schizophrenia every day. What are the sociological, political, economic, and cultural policies behind this, and how can we deal with this trauma? We've come to the world and we've taught the world what nationality is. We're obliged not only to speak rhetorically on the platforms, but also to apply them politically. Yes, it suits a conservative and democratic power, but where are we in all this, how's our report card? When we look at it, when we stand on the platforms, our religion, Islam, commands that Bilal and Abu Jahil, who are free from slavery by accepting Islam, stand on the same side and have the same rights. When one day the prophet God was trembling before our prophet to become a Muslim, the Lord said: "Do not be afraid; I am not a ruler. I am the son of a woman who eats dry bread from Quraysh. Now, a religious member of that understanding, a Muslim and conservative, of course, was flattered, but we won't make the same mistake. See, you guys aren't gonna make these mistakes, we shouldn't. We need to be sincere about the ability to transfer values from our roots to the new generation, to protect the family business. When we set out with sincerity and anxiety, we will see in time how human rights violations, violence against women, abuse of children diminish in this sense. We're not saying you did all this. In Turkey, society is trapped in tradition and modernity, living among all social layers, popular culture, arabesque culture, high culture, culture of the people. We're getting sick. He says we have to make a collective solution to this disease, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0305par0497	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, I'm going to read the final motion on matter. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following amendment to Article (3) of Article 25 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149, which is being discussed. "....................................................................................................... An administrative fine shall be imposed on the person and the organisations under the first joke, which does not comply in the period specified for no good reason, despite warnings of obligations laid out in the article. It's about administrative fines issued in this joke. The sentence of the joke is carried out." Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu (Bursa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0306par0505	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0305par0506	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0307par0507	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0305par0508	Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Altaca Kayşoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0308par0512	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 25 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149 rows. Although I have made a promise on the 25th Amendment, I would like to stress in general the errors, shortcomings of this law, and issues that have been overlooked. Now, first of all, I want to say that there's no statistics on this issue, but what we're dealing with in practice is that discrimination is the most in the field of employment, especially in the public sector. You know very well that all those who apply to public and public contractors are asked: "Are you a member of the AKP or not? Now, that understanding, unfortunately, has covered the private sector. I want to tell you about the two events that have been reflected in me. A private bank and a private company are doing a test on people, they're interviewing people, and then they say, "Okay, we'll get you." They're following these people on social media, and since there are shares in social media accounts that criticize government, they say, "You did this, and unfortunately, we can't hire you." Now, this board will be appointed by the Council of Ministers and the President. I'm asking you: These people are going to go, and they're going to say to this board that the government has almost appointed: "Ya, the private sector didn't hire me because I criticized the government, would you do something about it? Let's get to the other stuff. It's already been said about the 7th article, there's discrimination in the substance itself, there's a homophobic approach. I have serious concerns about the 17th Amendment. For example, the 8th joke states: "Admissions that will not be processed are regulated by regulations. " Now, from the very simple point of view, all lawyers know that rights are limited only by law. When this board is assessed within the framework of a right-seeking freedom, you limit the application for processing by regulations, and therefore, with this bill's text, the freedom of rights is restricted by regulations. The mistake that I see most important -- and I ask everyone, although this clause has passed, I think it needs to be changed -- the 17th joke of the 17th article (5), says: "Will this board not investigate these violations when the victim of the violations of human rights and non-discrimination violations can be determined in person?" We've been through this a lot as lawyers. Today, scan the press, there are two news reports, terrible. A 3 - year - old boy is raped, his intestines are pierced, and he died today. She's being raped by her boyfriend. Now, are you going to appeal to this mother? Shall we investigate this right? Again, there's news today, an 8-year-old girl is pressuring her mother to be with her lover. Are you going to seek the open consent of this legal representative? And the law dictates it. Where's the principle of resen motion? Please, let's change this substance, especially for children and for the higher interests of the child, together, because this will always be a problem. Another subject, yes, is the 25th article. In Article 25, administrative sanctions are being organised. Now, Article 122 of the Turkish Penal Code also envisions discrimination as a crime, a prison sentence. There's been a principle of criminal law since Roman law, and it says, "Well, there are no two punishments for a crime." In such cases, you know, the higher judgment cancels someone. You didn't see that coming either. Either this is in front of discrimination with this administrative fine, you're trying to lift the prison sentence in Turkish Penal Code, or again, you don't know the general principles of the law or you don't listen to NGOs in any way. First of all, because of these concerns that we're talking about, please, make sure that the board is independent; please change the 17th (5) joke for the children, and I want to say that it's also called prevention and so on; but I just went to Kopeli the other day. Two sensitive young, shiny, with only one woman concerned about preventing violence, unfortunately, they were subjected to violence at the police station because they published those images. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's a country like this. With these laws, we can't prevent them. First, I say we change the mentality, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0309par0527	Thank you, Mr. Altaca Kayışoglu. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 25th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 26th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the terms of the Court personnel or human rights and anti-discrimination instructors, in Article 26 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149 rows, be replaced in a manner that is considered human rights and equality expert. Desire Erdem Mustafa Mit Nuri Okutan Ismail Faruk Aksu Open his Mind Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 26 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149, which is being discussed in the following way. "MEDDE 26 is given (1) by human rights and discrimination training, institution staff, or trainers who have a license or/or master's degree in human rights or discrimination. The qualifications of the trainers are organised by regulations, receiving the appropriate view of the Finance Ministry, which will be paid to the educators by working procedures and fundamentals." Şenal Sarıhan Ahmet Akin Onursal Adıl Tahsin Tarhan Mahmut Tanal Burcu Koksal Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 26 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality, which is currently in session 149 rows. İdris Baluken Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Behcet Yıldırım of Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Behcet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0310par0556	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0309par0557	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0311par0558	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0309par0559	Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel will talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Ironel. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0312par0563	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, there is a motion in Article 26 that human rights and anti-discrimination training should be given by institutional staff and by human rights and anti-discrimination educators, and that should be dealt with seriously. What you've already put into practice, this institution you've established, is actually an institution that destroys discrimination and human rights firsthand. You're saying that you're going to train in this article. By whom? By corporate staff. And who will be assigned there by the agency staff? He'll be appointed by government officials. So, how much training have they had on discrimination, human rights violations, what are they going to teach about? They're going to teach about human rights, they're going to teach about preventing discrimination, but it's an institution that's already involved in discrimination. There's no evidence to prevent any discrimination against the woman. Will this institution teach employees about gender equality? No, it doesn't. We need to rethink and evaluate how you will provide a human rights education in a country that has already been violated by the whole of life, in violation of human rights and in violation of one whole of life. In this country, where we are in bans, you are forbidden to speak, you are forbidden to express your thoughts, you are not even allowed to walk on the road, and let alone your right to live, there is a period of discrimination and violence against people who have lost their lives. So there must be a debate on what kind of education to be given in a country that has gone down with so much discrimination. Who's going to decide that? It will be determined by special regulations. I mean, it's a situation where you have to be questioned by who, no NGO, no NGO, no NGO working in human rights, no NGO support, no organization involved. In the same way, the violations of rights have reached a higher peak in these recent processes... In particular, I would like to point out in the course of the Minister's presence: How can you talk about human rights in a country where you decide to tear down their homes without asking them today, in Tyre, Cizre, Turkey, Idil, when people were slaughtered, burned down, destroyed, destroyed, and put it into practice? What is this, not discrimination? We expect the answers as a whole, but Mr. Secretary and the government clearly state: "Burn, destroy; you are responsible for destroying buildings, all of them, do these things. After that, we take out laws, laws, generalities, regulations, we set them up for you, and we apply them in Turkey, where there is no right and no law. You're saying that you're going to act in line with the European Union criteria in this and in this process. I mean, where's the right, where's the law, where's the human rights, where's the anti-discrimination app? Life itself is full of discrimination. Today, there are people in prisons who are on hunger strike, who are starving their bodies against violence and violence, who are fasting for death. Where are their rights and laws? Where are the human rights? We ask you, do you know the answer? In fact, there is one other thing that all Turkey's public should know: this Parliament is where discrimination is applied to the HDP Group in one way or another. As MPs and members of our Parliament group, we are unable to meet with the prisons. Within this Parliament, our group is discriminated against. By whom? By the Attorney General's arbitrary application. Is there a right, a law, a law? No, I don't. But what is it? The Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Group will not be able to go to the prisons. It is said that there is no response. Where are the human rights, where are the rights, the law? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0313par0572	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 26 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149, which is being discussed in the following way. (MADDE 26) (1) is provided by human rights and discrimination training, institution staff or trainers who have a license or/or master's degree in human rights or discrimination. The qualifications of the instructors are regulated by the proper view of the Ministry of Finance, which will be paid to the educators by the way they work and by the basis of their work. Burcu Koksal (Afyonkarahisar) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0314par0580	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0313par0581	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0315par0582	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0313par0583	Burcu Koksal, Afyon MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0316par0587	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first and foremost, I congratulate all my colleagues on Lawyer's Day today (April 5th) with a wish for Turkey, where independence of the judiciary is not on paper, where the defence attorney is equal to the prosecutor. I have made a pledge on the 26th Amendment of the Turkish Bill of Human Rights and Equality Act. In order to ensure that human rights and anti-discrimination training are appropriate in the organisation of the 26th article, it should be intended to be given by people who have a degree or a master's degree in the body of universities. Unfortunately, there is no clear statement in the law on education, on whose side the education will be given, on which criteria will be based. The purpose of this law is to ensure the right to equal treatment of individuals, to prevent discrimination in taking advantage of basic rights and freedoms. Aren't you the one who took the liberty of taking the job on the basis of the torpedo? Aren't you the one who delays, doesn't serve where the Republican People's Party gets a high vote?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0317par0590	You take care of your own municipalities, your own municipalities.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0316par0591	And when a citizen calls, call Mrs. Burcu, who says you voted for the Republican People's Party, let him make your way.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0317par0592	Are we going to do the city's work?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0316par0593	And look, I'm telling you from here: from now on, my constituency in Afyonkarahisar, you didn't vote for my countrymen, sir, you didn't vote for AKP; no sir, the Republican People's Party came out of your village, AKP got a few votes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0317par0595	Look at Izmir. Look at Izmir.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0316par0596	Instead of resolving the drinking water of the monument, call Burcu Haným, and let her solve it. You embarrassed me with the AKP. The local executives who called me...
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0317par0597	Look at CHP municipalities, CHP people.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0316par0598	...the ones who lock up in the village of Upper Çaybelen, the ones who need doctors every 15 days; the ones who don't assign specialists to the Tea and Bayat State Hospital; the ones who don't appoint doctors; the ones who left citizens on the streets of Gökçek, on top of the hill, at $17,000 per square foot, at the roadside, at $5,500 worth of value; the ones who had to walk on the streets with small ponds; the ones who had to walk on the streets; the ones who said, and Dinar Çapal Çapal, and the ones who had to lay on the ground for years, and the ones who had to lay on the streets of the streets of the town of the Afyon Central Erens, I will complete all of them for years.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0318par0599	What's it to you, Domanic Way?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0316par0600	We're going to lend £30,000 to Esnafa and now we've frozen this loan efficiency. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] From June 7th until today, I will travel from district to village, from village to village, wherever you discriminate, wherever there is a human rights violation, wherever my fellow citizens are being persecuted, I will shout from this stand, and I will not have all my fellow citizens who have voted for the Republican People's Party in Afyonkarahisar and have not voted for you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0319par0605	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading the final motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "government personnel or human rights and anti-discrimination instructors" in Article 26 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149 rows that is being discussed should be changed into "human rights and equality expert." Spiritual Ersoy (Osmania) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0320par0612	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0319par0613	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0321par0614	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0319par0615	I'm reading the reason: Human Rights and Equality Institution Act of Turkey shall include a provision for human rights and anti-discrimination trainers, under the 26th article titled "Men's rights and anti-discrimination instructors," which is envisioned to benefit from institutional activities as part of human rights and anti-discrimination training. In the draft text of the draft, it is a vague description of the staff or human rights and anti-discrimination instructors. It is an area that is constantly on the agenda of public opinion, such as human rights and equality, and can be used as a tool for social polarization and camping. Therefore, human rights and anti-discrimination instructors must be given from within the institution by competent and competent personnel. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 26th article is accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions on the 27th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Executives in Article 27 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Institution 149 rows are adopted by the Institution. The terms of the declaration are determined by regulations issued by the Institution. We propose and propose that it be changed in the form of the Institution. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Mit Nuri Okutan Mehmet Erdoğan of Deniz Depboy Argin Erdem Ruhi Ersoy İstanbul Osmaniye Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 27 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act, which is currently in session, be removed from the bill. Çağlar Demirel İdris Baluken Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Behçet Yıldırım Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Sibel Yiğitalp Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Cadri Yıldırım İstanbul Siirt The signatures of the other motion are: Tahsin Tarhan Erkan Aydın Bulent Öz Şenal Sarıhan Veli Ağbaba Zeynep Altukok I'll ask the Commission and the government if they agree to two proposals of the same nature. Does the Commission participate in the motions?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0322par0644	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0319par0645	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0323par0646	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0319par0647	I'll make a promise to the lawmakers who want a word on the motions. The first speaker is Senal Sarıhan, Ankara MP. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0324par0651	Dear President, my fellow clerks, fellow lawmakers and fellow workers, I salute you all again. Dear friends, I think we're trying to do a very important job here. There is nothing more important in our life than the protection of human rights, the defense of human rights, the development of human rights, than the protection of human rights. While we're talking about this bill, we're trying to build a national mechanism for the protection of human rights. We have a national mechanism, a public audit; we had another national mechanism, the Human Rights Foundation, but we find that it's inadequate, that it doesn't work. It's not just us, as I've just said, the international institutions -- the United Nations, the European Union, the Council of Europe -- are telling us that what you do is incomplete, you cannot protect human rights in this way. I believe that all the proposals that the opposition parties have brought here are by hand, unresolved, unresolved -- without discussion, without hitting our own minds and conscience -- actually, it belongs to our friends of the AKP, members of this government, who are responsible. If a little responsibility is felt... these proposals for the bill are not counterproposals, but, together, suggestions made to improve the rights of citizens of the Republic of Turkey. I've just looked at the faces of my dear friend Nurhat Altaca, who was listening to the example in the matter of consent, as much as they could, and they were uncomfortable with what our friend was saying, but all the friends who had already agreed to it. And he called to your conscience, and said, "How will you bear the responsibility of this as a human if a twisted mother or father gives consent to small children?" I'm asking you again how you're going to bear the responsibility of the abuse of children, walking through the Ensar Foundation, and the abuse of children, which has been ripped apart, that these children's guardians will not have to give their consent out of fear and anxiety. Now what do we do, or what do we say as the opposition? We say, friends, withdraw this bill, renegotiate this bill, review the board first. Let's put representatives here from our civil society organizations, our people who are adults in the human rights field. So 8 plus 3 is not 11, let's make it 15, let's make it 20, but let's make the contribution of all our institutions in human rights, our trade organizations, especially our friends in the Union of Turkish Medicine, or our colleagues in the field of medicine, to our major unions. Let an independent council sit down and let it work alone to eliminate human rights violations from the state, or to determine and correct the damage done by those violations. While we can do this, while we may be in such a study, the additional protocol for the torture, abuse, prevention of cruel treatment that I referred to in my previous speech also states one thing, that you build members of the organization in 50-percent women and men. In the same way, build an equality that will represent all religious beliefs, represent all sects, represent the people of different ethnic origins in one country. What's our bill doing now? He's taking over the basics of this job. I beat you, and after I beat you, I'm either a lawyer or a judge, which is exactly what it looks like. The state is beating, the state is hurting, the government is acting wrong, and then he says: "Come, let me fix your mistake, and I'll be the judge." Is it possible to accept such arbitration, my friends? I'm trying to say it in very plain and simple words. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If this bill goes through like this -- it didn't get any better -- it's going to face the same problem that happened to the Human Rights Agency in the past, and it's going to have to be repeated, and it's going to have to be handled again. With all due respect, this is a warning mission. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0325par0660	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, İstanbul MP who wants to talk about the second proposal in the same manner. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0326par0664	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, what we need most in Turkey is equality and human rights. However, it will not harm the Paris Principles or the non-human or abusive treatment or the United Nations Convention on Punishment, but it will harm human rights and equality even more. Do you know what the bill aims to do? In fact, the government aims to see and hear the discrimination they want to see and hear the institutions they want to hear. Therefore, when the bill came to the commissions, NGOs working on human rights objected to this draft, saying that human rights are not protected by this law. Because the definition of discrimination is seriously lacking in the bill, the measures and measures that the institution has brought against discrimination. There is no individual application for human rights violations. The institution can't examine public institutions on its own. He can't even determine his own way of working. Moreover, the institution is entirely up to the Council of Ministers and the President. Thus, Turkey's Human Rights Institution falls behind the Foundation's Law. There's no way a non-independent institution like this could be approved as a national prevention mechanism. I also want to talk a little bit about the importance of collecting data and the lack of it in Turkey. The institution does not actually guarantee data collection with its 24th article in this sense, and in particular in the Istanbul Convention, and in European standards, it does not specify the measurements of data collection in universal principles. Now, we've all seen more recently the results of neither the work killings nor the lack of data on violence against women or child abuse, and we've all seen more recently that the people who have been tried for child abuse in this country are chairing charities that work with children, and they can be brought to social services county offices. It's also done because there's no previous data available. For example, the data expressed by the ministries on violence against one another is not only enough to collect administrative and numerical data on violence against women, as a large number of women are already unable to report violence to the authorities. In one of the latest studies on violence against women in Turkey, about half of the women who said they had been violent found that 49% of them had never told anyone about their physical violence experience before. Therefore, special data on the causes, consequences, frequency of violence against women, as suggested by the European Council's Council of Ministers' recommendation and, as I say, the Istanbul Convention states. Today, in Turkey, there is no standardized data in the field of labour, and there are no credible statistics about work diseases, let alone job killings. The families and lawyers of the workers who lost their lives try to store data every year by preparing the almanac of business killings. Now, this law, as a result, forms a board, which, you know, consists of the President and the Council of Ministers in the form of eight-thirds. This law will come back, so it won't come back in a year or two years at most because the definition of discrimination is not in line with the definition of discrimination, nor does it have a quota that guarantees us that half of this board will really be women, that it will be women, that it has an arrangement against discrimination, nor does it generally express groups that are already discriminated against the standards. Ben, at this hour you're making us work for nothing, and in fact, you're making me work for a board that's gonna come back for nothing, and it's not gonna go back to standards, and it's not gonna go with the demerits, and I'm gonna hate it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0327par0675	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm reading the final motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The "directions shall be carried out by the Institution," which is part of Article 27 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149. Its declaration is "subjected by regulations to be issued by the Institution." We offer and offer to change it into form. Spiritual Ersoy (Osmania) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0328par0682	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0327par0683	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0329par0684	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0327par0685	I'm reading the reason: The 27th article, titled "management" by Turkey's Bill of Human Rights and Equality Act, has been authorised to impose regulations on the institution's field of duty. The regulation in our proposal aims to make the text of matter in line with the technical and content of the law. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 27th article is accepted. There are three proposals on joke number (1), which I make you read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of Article 28 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149 is changed to the subsistence at the end of Article (1). Desire Erdem Mustafa Mit Nuri Okutan Spiritual Ersoy İsmail Faruk Aksu Open Mind Mehmet Erdoğan Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article (1) (1) of the Article 28 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act, which is currently in session, be changed in the following way. 31/3/2016 (1.)-The Law on Human Rights of Turkey, dated 21/6/2012 and 6332, when the Law on Human Rights and Equality of Turkey comes into effect, there is a debate. In other legislation, references to Turkey's Human Rights Institution are referred to by Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Association. Şenal Sarıhan Mehmet Gökdağ Okan Gaytancıoğlu İbrahim Özdish Bkent Öz Murat Emir Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article (1) of Article 28 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act, number 149, which is being discussed, be removed from the bill. İdris Baluken Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Behçet Yıldırım Kurdri Yıldırım Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Ayhan Bilgen Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0330par0717	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0327par0718	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0331par0719	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0327par0720	It's Ayhan Bilgen, Kars MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0332par0723	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey had one Human Rights Agency, and it will have another institution. This time, he will have a sign of equality on his side. I wish we could have done this one institution in this field over the decades of unrequited, voluntary human rights advocates, and if we were just talking about human rights, without adding any adjectives in front of all of us, just human rights, we could have all the parties to agree on, but unfortunately, we don't learn from our mistakes, and we repeat the same mistake over and over again. Turkey will spend another five years, maybe another ten, building institutions that will not meet expectations. National mechanisms are valued by two important functions all over the world. One of them is the use of public power. So, unlike NGOs, volunteers in human rights, using government power makes them trustworthy. I mean, they have the potential to solve problems, they have the capacity to solve problems. They're not just any volunteer organization. Second: But, despite being founded by the state, like a civil organization, like a human rights advocate, they approach events with such a perspective. Thus, it is assumed that the few in each country, the opposition, the opponent, are more violated. And when these boards serve those in such positions, they set out with the acceptance that they would be extremely sensitive to their problems. But, unfortunately, we're building an institution that doesn't have either of those features. I mean, you don't have any serious power, you don't have any serious authority that we know -- except for the advice decisions -- you don't have a human rights perspective, you don't have an inclusive human rights perception, you have a human rights vision. Such objections have been made before when similar boards were established. Human rights district in Turkey, human rights organisations said as the borough boards were established: these boards are only set up to complete one procedure. They will not go beyond just being bureaucratic mechanisms, but those who ruled the country on that day ignored this warning, and they said, "No. They've established human rights boards in all Turkey's districts, in all its provinces, in the districts of Turkey, to work as part of the Prime Ministerial Human Rights Presidency. Maybe if it had been founded in accordance with the Paris Principles that day, it would have been one of the most prestigious organizations in the world today. What happened? I'll tell you the situation in many counties: When you go, look at the sub-prime buildings, the doors written on the door of the Human Rights Board are usually closed. It only opens during board meetings. In most cases, very sensitive property management supervisors only run these boards, really invite human rights organizations, employ the relevant institutions to deal with the problems of that district, that local, but the common practice is to send a monthly routine report. The report usually states: "There has been a meeting, there has been no application, there is no human rights violation in our district." Now, I mean, it's a shame about this country's money, it's a shame about the buildings of this country, and it's a shame about public officials' work. But we did the same thing, and then we turned around, and we made Human Rights President the Human Rights Foundation. And we also said, "Look, you can't set up an independent committee by making up the Prime Minister's Office of Human Rights, partially changing its building, not even changing its place, not even changing its staff." And then there was no one listening, there was this institution. And now we're going to vote to terminate this institution in a moment to reduce it to a multinational position, and we're going to close the case. A few years from now, we'll see together that the Human Rights and Equality Foundation probably doesn't function, that the number of applications isn't even as good as an application to a branch of any human rights organization, and we'll be working here again to make a new law. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0333par0730	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article (1) (1) of the Article 28 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act, which is currently in session, be changed in the following way. 31/3/2016 (1.)-The Law on Human Rights of Turkey, dated 21/6/2012 and 6332, when the Law on Human Rights and Equality of Turkey comes into effect. In other legislation, references to Turkey's Human Rights Institution are referred to by Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Association. Senal Sarıhan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0334par0738	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0333par0739	The government?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0335par0740	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0333par0741	Murat Amir wants to talk about the motion, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0336par0744	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We're talking about the removal of Law 6332, the adoption, and the termination of the establishment. So I was wondering, in 2012, we passed this law, we created a board like this, why do we have to break it in three years and four years? One minute, I'm looking at how it's created on the website, and it's telling the Paris Principles, and it's putting out the basic principles, and it explains what kind of law it's creating. Actually, I like it. For example, there's a clause in the 7th paragraph called pluralism, which they took from the Paris Criteria again. They say: "The majority is the most basic feature of such a committee. " They say, "How did we provide it?" So I'm talking about the law you made. How did you get this pluralism? The Council of Ministers has established the board by appointing the seven, the President, the two, the YÖK 1, and the bar 1, and they say: "We have achieved pluralism." Now, you have to ask: Did you bring the pluralism enough because you boasted? Look, in the new bill you've brought in, you've raised the President to 3, you've raised the Council of Ministers to 8. Why, from where, from what need was it appointed by the CEC and the baron? So, because of that, then he was pluralist, can he be pluralist in the same way this time, friends? Of course, pluralism is clearly damaged here. Well, was that law pluralist enough, for example, independent enough? I also looked at the transcripts, and we made it clear that the 24th term, especially our member of the group, was a major challenge, and that it would have to be lifted soon, and that such a committee would never work. You will eventually bring this law and you will have to lift it. We said, "You didn't listen, but we say it again." Look, a law like this, a board like this... not as pluralist as it was then, not as independent as it was then, not as fiscally free as it was then, not even as well as then, there are no right-seeking ways. So, just as that law is out of the norms of the European Union and you have to remove it, you're going to have to remove it eventually. Dear friends, this law is actually the law of a friend to see in the shop. You, your government, are a corrupt government in terms of human rights and discrimination. Look, in the Protection of Personal Data Act -- we're out of hair here -- we haven't been able to get the concept out of there, all of us, the word "mez" out of there, no, we're going to tag it according to the cult. And here, with our insistence, you've barely written the word sect with our pressure, that religion will be considered discrimination. If it were up to you, yes, we'd discriminate according to the sect. I think that's bad enough for the Commission and for this council group. What human rights violations in Turkey will this law correct? Will the killing of 11 children in a travel trial pave the way for their families' rights? As an ophthalmologist, for example, 10 people lost their eyes, and I followed some of them. Will this law, this committee, contribute to their search for rights? For example, women's murders, for example, the intervention in the judiciary... look, every day there's an obvious intervention in the judiciary. For example, one of the places where you openly interfere with the judiciary is the Bazaar case. In the market case, you had people suing on the street for attempted coup, with direct instructions from the president to prosecutors. What happened? Two years later, they were acquitted. What about their rights? Isn't their rights violated, by the way? For example, what was done in Uludere, Uludere, after people were killed? In this law, what is there, and what path do you open for people who have been stripped of their right to live in Uludere? For example, we're talking about freedom of the press, a country where journalists are arrested every day, wrongly tried, whether they're arrested or not? So, this law, if it were this board, would help cover up your human rights violations. Therefore, we reject this law. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0337par0750	Thank you, Mr. Emir. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm reading the final motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of Article 28 of Turkey's Law on Human Rights and Equality Act 149 is changed to the subsistence at the end of Article (1). Spiritual Ersoy (Osmania) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0338par0757	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0337par0758	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0339par0759	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0337par0760	Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Alderman of Kahramanmarash, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0340par0763	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I'd like to address an important issue on the basis of the bill on the establishment of Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution, which I think is directly related to human rights and principles of equality. In the past days, with the minimum wage increased, important improvements have been made on the rights of insurance workers, employees, pensioners, some civil servants -- such as members of security, soldiers -- who have been retired from BUG-KUR with the removal of their benefits. You are aware that we support all of these laws, which are considered MHP. The blessings and burdens of this country must be distributed equally, as do the Constitution and the law. In addition, our great religion, Islam, maintain justice, even if it is against yourselves, your parents, and your relatives. He commands that you be silent in the face of injustice. Honourable MPs, the initial 5th and 10th Articles of the Constitution rule equality and justice. Despite the Constitution's ruling, they were discriminated and victimized by no support for the insurance holders within the scope of the BUG-KUR. Today, nearly 3 million people working active under social security are from BUG-KUR, with an active population of 14 per cent. BUG-KUR insurance providers pay insurance premiums by 34 per cent on the amount of earnings set by themselves, with minimum wage between 6.5 times the minimum wage. With the minimum wage increase, the BUG-KURL's premium loads have increased by about 30 per cent. The premium debts of several BUG-KUR insurance holders, which have been struggling to pay their current premiums, have increased dramatically. When we think of the smaller tradesmen, the victims of a large group who have barely made a living, who can't even pay the premium debt, have increased and will increase. When the minimum wage was raised, while other arrangements were being made, the BUG-KUR would have to be arranged with care, because one of them would look down, and one of them would cut off the apocalypse from it. It has never been in harmony with the principles of justice and equality to be taken from these parts and to be able to fund others. In particular, I'd like to point out that the situation of the BUG-KUR-KUR is no better than some of the improvements in the situation of the small tradesman. It is necessary to provide support for this section. See, in a 2010 study, 30 percent of the people of BUG-KUR are found to have no debts at all, while 70 percent of them are in large debt. As of that date, there are over 33 billion bonuses and delay increases in interest. I'm not talking about the tradesman's tax debt, I'm just talking about the premium debt. Dear lawmakers, our farmers are not better off, they're worse off. Our farmers also have no debts; 73 per cent owed; the total debt was $7 billion by that date. As a result, two thirds of the tradesman and farmer are in debt, and there has been no change in their situation today, even further back. As you know, he can't retire or receive health care when he doesn't pay his BUG-KUR. To sum it up, 16 to 17 per cent of the BUG-KUR people have never paid a bonus, 58 to 60 per cent have partially paid a bonus, and the percentage of those who can pay the bonus is close to 30 per cent. I don't think this painting is any different today. In fact, I think they're even further behind in paying by increasing the premium load, which is on minimum wage. Dear MPs, I would like to briefly say that as the state has made improvements to the situation of those in better condition than the BUG-KURL, the manava, the town, the grocery store, the baker, the tailor, the cocktail shop, the raw meatballs, the cobbler, the barber, the florist, the bread shop, and the newsstand should not be hostile. It's a necessity of right, justice, equality, and human life. The BUG-KUR is treated as a stepchild, and the error is here. Since we are going to establish the Human Rights and Equality Foundation, it says to start by correcting the situation of the people who were wronged first, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit05spe0341par0772	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the number (1) based on Article 28: those who accept... those who do not accept... joke number (1) is accepted in Article 28. I'm taking a three-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-05sit06spe0341par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 149, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Bill 170, which is ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be found after this, it is Wednesday (April 6th 2016) that we should discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00. I bid you good night.
