tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of parliament, Mr. Öznur Çukık, MP of Malatya, has reached our presidency on 29 January 2016 as to his resignation as a member of the Parliamentary Research Commission, which purposed to investigate Divorce Events with Unsurlar, who had a negative impact on the family integrity of Malatya MP Öznur Çukik. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa is our country's highest asset in agricultural production. The production of vegetables and fruit is usually under contract agricultural practice. The tomatoes produced here are processed by being shipped to the paste factories in Izmir, Bursa. However, growing complaints about the problems of the tomato manufacturers left unattended by the AKP government are increasing daily. Last year, the manufacturer who laid the tomatoes on the road for no money has faced the same problems this year. They don't even buy tomatoes from the manufacturer, which they're making for 25 cents in winter. That's why farmers of Salihli, Saruhan and Muradiye were victims. Tomatoes are a vegetable whose harvest time is short. Manufactured tomatoes must be collected and sold as soon as possible. Companies who know this do not give the farmer the money they need to pay by reducing the price of purchases, lowering the price, keeping the rate of fire high, disregarding the contracts they signed. For example, I dropped the amount to 100 tons later on to the farmer who had a thousand tons of contracts, and if I wanted 900 tons in the contract, I could get more at a lower price without a contract. That way, they dropped the price of tomatoes up to 10 cents. Fires are the most pressing complaint these days. On the same day, tomatoes collected from the same field and the same way are sent to factories by trucks. In the news they send to the farmer two days later, the factories do the math on this, saying there are six percent in one truck and 15 percent in the other, and 23 percent in the other. They even fire at 13 percent for the tomatoes in the tractor vaults collected by hand. Since the fire did not report the results on the day of the month, the right to appeal has been eliminated. With this method, the price of 25 cents is reduced to 17 cents per contract, and the price of fire goes down from one to 10 cents on the dollar. For this reason, the farmer has expressed a desire to apply a base price in vegetables and fruits to protect his rights in the face of factories. Because agricultural contracts are one-sided against the farmer, agreements between factories and producers must be made before the authorities of Food, Agriculture and Animalism county and district managers, or agricultural chamber officials, and that contracts should be prohibited except contracts to protect the farmer. In order to investigate the problems of vegetable and fruit producers in our country, to determine measures to protect the rights of farmers and producers, and to determine the method of contracting agricultural implementation which must be guaranteed legally, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution be opened under Articles 104 and 105. [[Manisa]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[İzmir]] 8) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] 11) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[Edirne]] [[Burdur]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Janitor]] 16) Gamze Akkuş Isgez [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Paddles]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Niğde Province, it is still registered with 463 non-movable Council of Culture Preservations. Although some mansions and structures registered across the province of Niğde have been limited to repair and rescue efforts, many structures are about to be destroyed and destroyed. Also, unregistered mansions are being destroyed and built to an unreturnable end. Work is mandatory throughout the region in order to move yesterday into the future. In order to determine the process and the situation, and to determine the requirements for the preservation of this important historical wealth, I demand that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. 1) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Edirne]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 5) Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Isparta]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Edirne]] [[Ardahan]] [[Burdur]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Janitor]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] 20) Ahmet Tuncay Özkan [[İzmir]] 21) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] The province of Niğde is an important centre to consider the arrival of the Toros, which has been uncovered by scientific excavations for 10,000 years. However, the historical tissue that exists throughout the province has not been revealed in its proper form, nor has tourism been given the necessary importance of the region. In a region that has no interest in its rich historical assets, very important remains, particularly historical mansions and places of worship, are in ruins and are about to be destroyed. In particular, part of the mansions have been destroyed as part of the road opening or urban transformation practices in the central district. Niğde Province center, Bor, Çamır, Altunhisar, Ulukşış, Kayırlı, Greenburç, Yeşilyurt, Karatlı, Kemerhisar, Çukurkuyu, Narköy, Diklıtaş, Yüçeli, Hançeli, Fertek, Kula, Kitreli, Show, Bozköy, Gölükçı, Ulkşlalı, Küççlı, Yüçükçükçı, Orhanlı, Yıldıztepe, Aktaş, Silvers, Köçükklı, Çağlı, Çağlı, Kırlı, Küçüçüçüçüçüçük, Kı, Kıçüklı, Kıçıçüklı, Kıçüklı, Kıçılı, Kıçıçıçıçılı, Kıçıçıçıçıçılı, Kıçılı, Kıçılı, Kıçıçıçıçılı, Kıçıçıç, Kıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçılı, Kıçıçıçılı, Kıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçılı, Kıçıçıçılı, Kıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçılı, Kılı, Kıçıçıçıçıçılı, Kıçıçıçıçıçılı, Kıçılı, Kıçıçıçıçıçıçıçılıçılı, Kıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçılı, Şıçıçıçıçıçılı, Şılı, Şıçılı, Kılı, Şçılı, Kıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçılı 2 military buildings are protected at the centre of Niğde, 2 urban sites, 2 archaeological natural sites, 82 religious and cultural structures, 111 civilian structures, 1 industrial structures as immovable cultural assets. In Bor, 60 in Altunhisar, 3, 1 in Piner, 8 in the Farm, 4 in the Ulukish, and 189 in total. A total of 271 in the centre, 23 in Altunhisar, a total of 122 in Bor, a total of 10 in Çamarı, a total of 15 in the Farm, 22 in the Ulukishla, the Registered Unmovable Cultural Beings are 463 in total. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 98 of our Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code, in order to determine and take effective and permanent measures to address the problems of our disabled citizens. With all due respect. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[Tunceli]] 8) Aylin Nazlı Aka [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[Janitor]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 13) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 15) Gamze Akkuş İsgez [[İstanbul]] [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Paddles]] To date, effective and permanent measures have not been taken to address the problems of our citizens in different obstacle groups. The problems that our disabled are experiencing are increasing day by day. In particular, the problem of employment for disabled citizens is that even though the lack of physical conditions is constantly expressed for them to join society, serious steps are not taken to resolve it. Article 31 of the United Nations Convention on Emergency Rights, approved by Law 5825, tasked the entity states with collecting appropriate information and sharing them with everyone, including statistical data and research that will guide them in their development and formulate the policies needed for the implementation of the contract. The public needs to set an example for the employment of workable disabled. Since 2002, it has been said that the public's disability quota will be filled rapidly with the Prime Minister's generalisations and numerous statements made by the Prime Minister. If the disabled employment quotas mentioned in Laws 3-4857 and 657 are not filled, it is necessary to examine public officials who do not perform their duties or perform the necessary audits. Months for disabled people who can't work, who can't work, should be made in line with the human income set forth in the United Nations contracts. More important than the problems of our disabled students in education and education is the problem of transportation. In addition, schools, universities do not have sufficient access to transport within the campus. The situation of disabled prisoners in prisons is grave. For the visually impaired, the roads have not been laid out for the orthopedic disabled, who use a wheelchair or should walk on the flat floor. During a visit with members of the disabled associations, disabled participants are forced to move from time to time to the entrance of the building, needing the help of two people. The disabled make up the society that needs health care the most. Since their income is extremely limited, some of them have no income, the application of disability allowances or health insurance premiums should end in asking the disabled for a contribution to medical care, medicine, medical supplies, surgery and treatments. Medical support tools, such as wheelchairs, hearing aids, are kept low at prices provided by the Social Security Agency, while low quality products are left with no option but to extend their mandatory use. The regulation to determine health board reports, which are very important for disabled persons to benefit from their rights, must be followed by the rules declared by the World Health Organization. It is imperative that parliamentary research be opened for effective and permanent measures to address the problems of disabled citizens. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Friday 29/01/2016, I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 18 January 2016, Gaziantep MP Mr. Mahmut Toğrul and his friends -- prisoners with severe illness, prisoners and prisoners with political illness -- were left to die -- was suggested to be read in the same session in the same edition of the parliamentary inquiry, which was given to the Grand National Assembly in order to examine and resolve the situation of all sick prisoners -- in order to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly of Turkey. The first statement in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is the one owned by Siirt MP Besime Konca. Here you go, Mr. Konca. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0002par0183	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, in my midnight speech last night, I assessed the situation in Turkey, especially in Cizre, where people face death every day, at any moment. On his trip to Europe, the Prime Minister said he would solve this problem on his trip abroad, and we expressed our wish that Mr. Davutoglu, the prime minister of this country, Mr. Davutoglu, would solve this problem -- hopefully not lose a new person's life by morning. However, this wish has not been fulfilled again, and people are still hungry and thirsty there. I'd like to rephrase the situation of 23 people living with the dead. Prison conditions... yes, as a prisoner, I received that promise on a day when the TK main case remains and our trial continues today. Yes, there was a process that took place during the government's control of what you declared to be a terrorist organization today, a process that closed the lives of many politicians in prison for five years, a process that became much more common today, with the capacity of prisons that exceeds hundreds of thousands of people, and we're experiencing a reality that the Justice Department said would solve this problem by doing over 100 percent of the new prisons. We know that we live socially today... that while the four sides of Turkey are living in a confined reality, the conditions of prison are much heavier, much more destructive, that put human life in much more danger. It's not enough for time to count people who have died in ten minutes, who have ever been faced with lawlessness, injustice, torture, isolation. However, we would like to say that the policies that have been implemented in prisons over the years are a reflection of the politics produced here, of the fascist mentality, of the prisons much deeper. In Turkey's prisons, in Kurdistan prisons, people have lived seriously as the nakedest face of fascism, September 12th Fascism. We know from the massacres, from the tortures to the sewers, that there have been massacres that have cost human lives, that fascism has been practiced. But today, we think that by making this much more common, much deeper, human rights violations are being carried out in a much more subtle way, and this fascism, this carnage, these human rights violations are much deeper. Over 300,000,000 prisoners are clawed by severe conditions of illness. We know that there are hundreds of patients who are not evacuated, even though the coroner's office needs to report and have terminal illness. Even though they're innocent and still not cleared by the judiciary, we know that prison conditions, living conditions, a second crime, a second method of torture. Let's keep them from journalists today, from Can Dündar, Erdem Güls, other than that, from lawmakers, from human rights advocates, politicians, from our co-chairs working in local governments, thousands of people are being tried today for doing their column writing in the newspaper, and they're being tried for a life sentence, not one life, but two life sentences, because they sound like a critic of this government, an opposition and a social conscience. Today, if you oppose me, I will destroy the world for you. If you defend self-government, if you defend a different form of struggle, we will destroy the world. We know very well what a sense of power, a sense of Turkish politics, will do to people in prisons. For this reason, although we have first asked the Minister of Justice to go to prisons from June 1st to today, we have not yet received an answer from the Ministry of Justice, even though we have requested to meet with every prisoner who has been treated with health problems in prisons, tortured, and morally assaulted. As MPs, we can't do this today, even though we have the right to take care of any problems, authority and moral responsibility. We're wondering what the Justice Department is concerned about. We expect a member of parliament to go and explain a much clearer and clearer reason why he can't talk to convicts and prisoners who are in difficult situations, have problems, and in some way wish to share them with us. Otherwise, just as we're out there slaughtering the opposition in different ways, shutting them down, and inside, every member of that fascist mentality that comes in there, every insult, every means of isolation, every kind of mechanism is being created, with his prison guard, with his warden, with his warden, and with his security outside. There was a report last week that kept thousands of people in solitary confinement, constantly changing prisons, keeping them in solitary confinement as a method of psychological oppression, a deterrent. It is a crime of humanity to take them from Osmaniye Prison to another prison -- 200 to 300 meters from prison, maybe prison to prison, new prison -- to search them naked, knock their heads against the walls and take them from prison to torture. We want to reiterate that many of these people have been arrested without justice for years and have been convicted, but this is a government day, where every person has shown a great resistance to the struggle of every individual, and that there is a force of violence, a disregard for all sorts of forms of human life that they insist on in the face of the struggle and the dignity of the people there. We want to know what the Ministry of Justice has done to people who are in prisons in particular, who are involved in executions, who need parole, especially political prisoners. We want to make it clear to the Ministry of Justice why there was an imposition of the sentence, if you accept it again, that the prisoners who were sentenced to under a year without legal grounds have to be punished. We want to bring up these problems in a much different way because we can't go and see and report the conditions of hundreds of thousands of people in one prison at a time. I also think that the Justice Department should remove this embargo against us as soon as possible, as well as this isolation against us outside. As a matter of fact, again, I am here to condemn the isolation of Mr. Ocalan. Legally speaking, they have the right to talk to their lawyers, they have the right to talk to their parents. Just as Mr. Ocalan is being put into political isolation, we also know that violence has been applied to all political prisoners in a political manner, that they have not been released despite political forensic reports, that they have been deliberately deported, that they have been taken to the hospital with political attitude, that their hands have not been opened, that they have been subjected to all kinds of insults in the prisons of women and prisoners. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In order to assess all of this more accurately in place and in time, we would like to say that the Justice Department must remove the isolation imposed on us lawmakers as soon as possible. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0003par0195	The first word against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is from Mehmet Erdogan. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0004par0199	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group against the HDP group's proposal. I hereby salute your high council. I'd like to clarify a few things at the beginning of my speech. At a time when the EMITT Tourism Fair continues in Istanbul, I strongly condemn some press organizations who are making a fuss about the security of the province of Mugla being worse than Şırnak. Our mugla has a very serious infrastructure in tourism with our country's safe, peaceful, and also natural beauty, with its forest, sea, beach, beach, history, its existence, its culture, its tourism. Tourism faces many challenges, especially with developments that have arisen since the Russian plane was shot down on the Syrian border, the senseless mention of the Mongolian is meant to play with the bread of our countrymen who provide for their livelihood from tourism, and no one has the right to do so. The Republic of Turkey is a state of law. The Republic of Turkey is not an imperialist state. As stated by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our state, our country has been carrying on the peace of the nation since the beginning of the republic. In this metaphor, everyone must know that those who act against the laws of the Republic of Turkey within the borders of the Republic of Turkey will be required in accordance with the law of the Republic of Turkey, and those who oppose the laws of the Republic of Turkey, it is very wrong to mention the imprisonment of those who go to prisons according to the laws of the Republic of Turkey. For violating the laws of the Republic of Turkey, we can only separate those who are in prison from those who are under arrest, who are still on trial, as well as those who have been convicted of being convicted of a final trial. The prisoner is a completely separate concept, including the warriors captured during the war. The Republic of Turkey is not at war with any state. In this regard, it is pointless to talk about prisoners and prisoners in our prisons. The AKP is unable to tolerate any criticism of the Parliamentary Presidency, the President or the AKP. However, in the face of attacks against the state, as in this motion, there is silence, irresponsibility. These and such issues should not be brought to the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. At this point, the main thing to talk about is the concept of the fight against terrorism that Turkey faces today as a whole. The fight against terrorism is not just about the actions of our soldiers, police, guards, security forces, armed terrorists in certain parts of our country to neutralize them. This struggle is only part of the fight against terrorism. If Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, AKP spokesman, is sincere in the fight against terrorism, the fight against terrorism must be addressed as a whole and fight terrorism at every point. Unfortunately, at our universities today, there are serious acts of terrorism, but power is watching them. In the events that took place last year at the University of the Aegean, our representative there, our country's brother, Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu, was martyred. This incident came out screaming and our brother was a martyr because the government did not take measures against the terrorist formation of this university. So-called NGOs are dating, they make a lot of statements that insult our state every day, insult our state, but praise terrorists, and they are, unfortunately, able to continue their activities in this country. There's no power in it. If every organization that supports terrorism is to fight terrorism with each person, it must be judged within the scope of the fight. We've been looking at it for days in Diyarbakir, Tyre, Cizre, Cleopatra, and the terrorists are still able to shoot guns, someone is financing them, someone's supplying weapons, someone's supplying ammunition. I mean, how are you going to figure this out without you securing your border? You'll provide border security if you're going to fight terrorism. Sir, you're going to cut off the funding of terrorism. He's gonna get as many resources as he wants, and you're gonna watch, too, to attack your government; that's unacceptable. You can't fight terrorism by making smugglers heroes. You can't fight terrorism by allowing drug traffickers to reach every point of Turkey, allowing it to become a source of terrorism again. You can't still fight terrorism by maintaining fuel prices in Turkey at a time when oil is down from $150 a barrel in the world market to $30 a barrel. If you do that, you'll give the smugglers and the people who are funding terrorism. You can't fight terrorism in your own country by inviting a number of terrorist organizations to join you in international politics, bringing their heads here as heads of state. He's the terrorist in your country, and he's the terrorist in your neighbor. So someone else's terrorist is good, my terrorist is bad. You can't say that. In international politics, you have to be very careful. You need to cover the legal system's shortcomings in the fight against terrorism, its openings. People who support terrorism, who belong to terrorist organizations, are also guilty of crimes, and these crimes must be judged as punishment, and they need to be processed. So we can't allow anyone to roam the Turkish state within the borders of the Republic of Turkey without a cane in the village against the Turkish nation without a dog. If everyone's going to fight terror, we need to shape this rule of law accordingly and do the fight against terrorism in this way. One of the most important issues is social policy. Today we need to make those citizens feel that some of our citizens, both east and west, live all over our country, are not under the control of terrorists, and that our citizens are a first-class citizen of the Republic of Turkey. So, how do we make this feel? We're going to make terrorists feel that they don't have the opportunity to use force on them; we're going to show them their education, their health, and we're going to treat all of the traumas that are happening here one by one. But now that the AKP has gone through the opening process, it's handed over our citizens in the region to terrorists, and now our citizens are moaning under the pressure of that terror, unfortunately our citizens are still stuck in the middle of the battle between terrorists and police there, they have to get out of their homes and get out of their homes. Guys, I've been a civil servant for 25 years. Even a transfer has its challenges. Is it easy for a man to leave his home, his vineyard, where he was born, where he grew up? And the power that causes it would have to quickly end these wrongs and give our people the necessary support. I say we are against this proposal, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0005par0213	The second word in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal belongs to İstanbul MP Yakup Akkaya. Mr. Akkaya, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0006par0216	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the recommendation of the People's Democratic Party. First of all, I salute you all with love and respect. Dear MPs, as you all know, we, the Republican People's Party, established the Prison Commission in the 24th-century Parliamentary study. In this Prison Commission, our Group Deputy President, Free Special, Vice President Veli Ağbaba and Mr. Nurettin Demir were in charge. Our commission visited 110 prisons 184 times during this process. There was a report on patients, prisoners, and prisoners. And we published these reports as pamphlets, and it's very striking, that what happened there in prison, all sorts of non-human events, from the mouths of those living there, our friends in the Commission have made a report. Dear lawmakers, detention is an exceptional condition. In any case, our citizens can only be punished for freedom of travel. So our citizens will be thrown into prison for any crime they've committed, and their freedom of travel can be restricted. It's in our law, but it's unacceptable for our citizens, our citizens, to be deprived of other matters, no matter what conditions they may be in prison. Especially if it's health, it's not acceptable. This is a fundamental human rights violation. Dear friends, recently, you know, there are journalists who have been unjustly imprisoned for what they've written. Can Dündar and Erdem Gül are unjustly imprisoned in Silivri Prison and remain there under difficult circumstances because of their writings. And when we interviewed Mr. Can Dündar and Erdem Gül, we saw how basic human rights violations were applied to the two valued journalists who cost this country, the isolation practices. We do not accept this, and we once again express that the practices of prisons are in accordance with basic human rights. Dear MPs, I became a congressman on November 1st. I was vice president of the Republican People's Party for about five years. I'm from labor organizations. I started working at 11, and I'm disappointed in this House. If you say, "Why?," because I hoped that problems, problems, and problems would be solved with a different understanding. Of course we have problems in our country, problems. Everyone's talking about their problems and problems. So where's the solution? Of course, their solution should be the Grand National Assembly. Well, can we solve it in the Grand National Assembly? Unfortunately, it's difficult to say that our problems and problems can be solved from the day the Assembly opened, and here, unfortunately, when the results of the June 7th elections were evaluated, we evaluated the results and consequences of the 7th June elections; we saw our shortcomings and will consider them in the following process. He said, "We will consider them." But after the November 1st elections, we see that power poisoning is still going on in the AKP. Turkey's real agenda, so you can't see and therefore you don't run the Assembly. You look like you're working, you look like you've made a law, but you know this isn't really happening. Turkey's agenda is terrorism. So, what's your agenda? Your agenda is the president. Every day we're shaken by news of martyrdom. Mr. President has also attended a martyr's funeral in Ankara today with our friends. Our citizens die every day because of this plague of terror; our hearts are burning. You're doing it wrong. Look, dear friends, the precious MPs are not above the safety of citizens in any democratic country. In democratic countries, the state must first ensure the safety of its citizens, but unfortunately, your work endangers the safety of its citizens. I'm not just saying this for the east, for the southeast; we can see it when we come to the big cities, when we go to the inner Anatolia, when we see what's happening. One of Turkey's main agendas is unemployment. So, what's your agenda? Your agenda is the presidency. We have close to 6 million unemployed MPs. I leave home in the morning, and I'm going to work. When I've become a luxury in this country, instead of taking creative employment policies, you're only concerned about the presidency. Turkey's agenda is poverty. Look, the number of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy was given 3.5 million household poverty benefits in 2014 alone, and for $20 billion, our citizens were given poverty benefits, which is digitally equivalent to 22 million of our citizens. So, when we look at our population, how can your agenda be president if one of the four citizens is condemned to live under the poverty line in this country? How can you not find a solution to this? Look, even today, from January 1st to today, 105 workers have lost their lives in the work killings, and at least 4 workers die every day, and 3,251 workers join the disabled class per year. There's no countermeasures about it, but when multiple deaths happen, it comes up, but when one person dies, it doesn't come up on anyone's agenda. There's no measure to be taken in this matter. What's the word? The presidential system. Dear lawmakers, one out of four are depressed. In one year, only 26 million citizens used antidepressants in 2014. What is wrong with you people? Why are our citizens using these? In a country where unemployment, poverty, livelihood and, most importantly, no guarantee of life, our citizens can only find a solution to their problems by using antidepressants, but your problem is the presidency day and night. And we're seeing how much of the problems they've caused have increased divorce rates. Divorce rates are up 37 percent from the previous period, but your problem is the presidency again. Since consumer loans have increased by 568 per cent, I don't think these valued members of the House are aware of it, and there's an understanding that pays off debt by loan, and that puts our people, our citizens, into depression, but your concern is the presidency. Look, there's another incident that these people have brought, valuable lawmakers, suicides. There's a 33 percent increase in suicides compared to the previous period. Why are these people suddenly giving up on this life and trying to end their lives here? Now, that's because of desperation. So, what does this House have to do? To cure our citizens' problems, their problems, right? But your problem is the presidency here. We're not at peace with any of our neighbors because of the wrong foreign policy, unfortunately, we have problems. Here, international contracts are signed here. We had also signed international contracts with Syria, and we had removed visas with Syria, and every day our citizens went and went as they pleased, and with Russia, and with Iran, and with Algeria, and with Egypt. Didn't all these deals go through this House? So what you've done is we've seen that the deals you've made are empty, with these practices you've done recently. Dear lawmakers, these are not enough, these problems in the country are not enough, and now you're coming to work. Instead of solving the most important problems of working life and protecting the rights that workers have earned for many years, instead of improving them, you're wondering how we can get them back. That shouldn't be the trouble with the coven. The council must also protect the rights of the workers. You know, we see that the idea of confiscating seniority compensation, the most basic achievement of employees, which has been in the working life since 1936, is in the 64th Government Programme. We can't accept that. So it is not possible for us to accept the arrangements of the unions, which will be brought to this Parliament without the agreement of the NGOs, to bring its working life to gangrene. But while you're at it, you're the president. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Finally, I'm saying that in 1993, Mr. President -- then not the President -- has a saying. It's the result of a wannabe or a system imposed on us by American imperialism. It says that the President is asked a question for the presidential system. What happened?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0007par0234	He's been cheated.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0008par0235	Mr. Akkaya, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0007par0236	He's been tricked.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0009par0237	So, did a white-haired grandfather enter the dream of Mr. President or Parliament in 1993, when the presidential system, which he called an impression of imperialism, suddenly came to our attention? I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0010par0240	The second and final word against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal is Şanlıurfa MP Ahmet Eşref Fakibaba. Here you go, Mr. Fakibaba. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0011par0244	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the highly valued MPs, the HDP proposal. My respects to all of you. As a southeaster, I'd like to tell you a little bit more about the southeast. The southeast is a region that only gives 20 percent of waterable land in Turkey. 28 percent of the water is in the southeast, and we're always on oil in energy, but tomorrow, hopefully, when solar energy develops, Turkey will have a southeast-led region. There is a culture riot with Kurdish, Turkish, Arab. For ten years, this brother of yours was mayor there. You go to a Kurds wedding, you go to a colorful dress, shiny music, a different culture; from there you go to an Arab wedding; there's a difference; from there, if you go to a Turkish wedding, it's really different. So it's a sister town, southeast, with Antwerp, Adıyaman, Diyarbakir, Mardin. So when you look at it, really, it's a great city with culture, economics, everything. Look, in Davos, only Gobeklitepe was spoken for three days. You're going to an Antwerp, a member of Antwerp UNESCO, a member of Urbana, a member of Mardin, a member of Diyarbakır. Mardin is a city that really attracts the attention of everyone with historical structures. So what I'm trying to sum up is that it's an economically perfect place, people who live in perfect, but how come they're so hostile to each other with Turkish, Arab, Kurdish? I want to explain it in particular. Now, as far as I'm concerned, this has four very important dimensions. First, the international dimension. Look, ever since the shooting started around us, you've been looking at a fever in the southeast. Even the events in Syria, Iran, Iraq, and Ukraine affect us. Why? As I just mentioned, really, the southeast has the potential to feed Turkey, not just its territory, but it's -- it's -- it's all people see. In this regard, we can never ignore the international scale of this event. We have enemies internationally, we know where the weapons used in the southeast came from, and it's very, very clear who was involved. So, now, where there's no security, can you talk about health, you talk about sickness, you guys talk about happiness? For him, security is a requirement that must be absolute and absolute. But we have a government that uses security against terrorism, we have a party. Once and for all, security and terrorism are always at the beginning of our party's most important activities, especially to protect innocent people in the face of terror. Of course, we have problems there, I swear, I have problems there, and so do my Kurdish brothers, and so do Arabs. There's also unemployment there. Oh, one of the reasons for these unemploymentes, these povertys is also terrorism, my friends. Look, I want to make this very clear from here: at least 80 percent of the vehicles seen in the southeast in the 1980s were filled with tourists who wanted to enrich the country and the southeast with our guests from abroad -- to travel to the southeast, to come to Mardine, VanESTa, Diyarbakır, Uruguay, and southeast. But what did terror do? Starting in 1980, he laid his hand on the southeast, and people began to stop coming. We've entered the peace process, people are getting rich again, but another terror has hit... we never distinguish a ISIS terror, a PKK terror, a DHKP-C terror, our terrorist is good, your terrorist is bad. Where there's terror, there's no people, where there's terror, there's no happiness. In this context, for once, absolutely, our government must prevent this terror with security. Third, political identity. Our Kurdish brothers are right, we have opportunities for political identity. Let's make a new constitution. Our friend just spoke, and we want the presidency for our country, not just for our President. Our friends before this, please... look, both the late Ozal and Demirel, Turkesh and Erbakan Hoxha all wanted for Turkey to become an important country in the region. It's pretty obvious, guys. For him, the presidential system is not a system that the EC PARTY wants for itself, especially not for our President. The fourth problem of the southeast is the socioeconomic problem. That's true, but when you look at 2002 and 2016, for God's sake, look at the hospitals, the universities, the airlines, the double roads, are they lying? These are the airports in every city, in every city, in every city, in every city, in every city, we have a double road. But if it hadn't been for terror, the southeast would have been a very different brand. So, if the Seyhan Dam had been built today, if the terrorists hadn't stopped him, if the terrorists hadn't burned the business machine, look how much land would have been watered there, how much Kurdish brothers would have benefited from it. For him, I always say that terrorists are terrorists, but Kurds are our lives. We cannot be separated from the Kurds, and no one apart from God can separate us.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0012par0253	As for the Kurds' rights, nothing.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0011par0254	I'm thinking about what we should do. What do we do? Let's all be together here against terror, let's call the terrorist a terrorist a terrorist, friends. Terrorists and democracy don't mix; they don't mix with terror. So, I think the terrorist should put down the gun in his hand and withdraw immediately, and we'll have to put 550 friends together and make a new constitution. Now, we call it the democracy, don't we, fellas? When we say "Democracy," we have possibilities. Look, hopefully, at the end of 2016, we're going to Europe without a visa. Well, for that...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0012par0256	He'll go with his money.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0011par0257	Congressman, it could be, you might think it is, I think it is.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0013par0258	We're asking for it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0011par0259	But we've got to work, we've got to work hand in hand, and for that, we've got to get the law out. Why not when the law comes out? IF AK PARTY hadn't been sincere... what other party has been so serious for membership in the European Union besides the late Ozal? I personally believe that we, God willing, will join hands and take serious paths. I mean, for once, we shouldn't burn down our schools, burn down our hospitals. We've built a lot of hospitals, we've built a lot of schools, but unfortunately, the education areas of our children there, our patients there, especially, as a physician, I'm a brother who respects all of our patients in the first place. But first, we need to take care of the hospital patients. First, we have to respect our people in the hospital dialysis services. For him, I believe that if we put our hands together, we can make people in the southeast happy. We have an important opportunity here. The biggest cure for this opportunity is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we are the greatest remedy, my friends. When we put our hands together, when we call the terrorist a terrorist, when we agree that democracy is not going to be armed, it's not going to go anywhere with a gun, and when we get together, I believe that the people will applaud us both and applaud us with all their parties. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0014par0265	Thank you, Mr. Fakibaba. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0015par0267	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit01spe0014par0268	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0014par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the People's Democratic Party Group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept the proposal... those who refuse... the proposal is not accepted. There's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0016par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0014par0005	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0016par0006	During his speech on behalf of the Justice Development Party, Mr. Fakibaba, the founder of our party has expressed some opinions about our late Prime Minister Turkesh. It is not ours, it is not our party's. I'll just be a minute or two about...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0014par0007	Mr. Akçay, I was going to give you my word in the previous session, but I had to take a break because the decision wasn't enough. And since we're taking a break from the hearing, I'll give you my word at your place. Because we can't give it on the stand without picking on it, and you know it has to be in the same session. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0016par0011	Thank you. Mr. President, now, first of all, Mr. Speaker, for political identity, the presidential system must be approved. That's the way it is: for political identity... Ladies and gentlemen of the law, my dear nation, I say to you from here, please look at the birth certificate in your pockets. What political identity are we talking about? So you want to change this citizenship identity? Everybody get out the bottom of your mouth, make it clear what that means, number one. Secondly, the founder of the Nationalist Movement Party, which they are trying to plagiarize into such languages, is being attributed to our late Prime Minister Alparslan Turkesh. Sir, Turkesh also wanted the presidential system. I say this about his view: Let everyone put it into his mind very well, and do not bring it into the agenda. Article 1) Before you ask us this question, in 1993, bring a comment on Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan's statement against the presidential system, and let it be clear, Erdoğan accepted an American game as a Zionism game and rejected this presidential system in 1993. The view of the presidential system is attributed to our chieftain Turkesh.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0017par0018	Complete, Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0016par0019	...in 1968, it was a phrase that he spoke of in a book that he expressed as a base view. Dear friends, since 1969, in no programme of the National Movement Party, no election declaration has the presidential system been defended, this hasn't been proposed or spoken of. This must have been included in the official documents of that party in order for you to refer to a political party, a programme for the past, a view of their views. There's no such thing. Also, I would like to inform you that in 1968-69, as our Prime Minister expressed his views, I would like to remind you that there was a two-nation structure in Turkey. There was the Grand National Assembly, and there was the Senate of the Republic. It was a system, a system, and there were intense criticisms about it. So, the only Parliament has been defended by our Prime Minister and the National Movement Party, and now a strengthened Parliament is being defended. Every time he visits abroad, he is inspired by the country's system, and on the return, he brings some suggestions on the plane. The last time France returned, sir, here, French...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0018par0024	Complete, Mr. Akçay, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0016par0025	I'm completing it. He gave an example of France. I mean, they're always conflicting statements. Go to America, advise the American system. Whichever country he went to, Surinam went to Mozambique, almost an example of Mozambique was given to France in the end. France has a double legislature, so are the two parliaments recommended? For one thing, they're confused, not clear. So they can't clearly express their views on the Constitution and the presidential system they want to impose on our nation. Let me declare from here to you and to our beloved nation what kind of constitution Mr. Erdogan and some people want. Mr. Erdogan wants a two-point constitution: Article 1- Erdoğan is correct in what he says, it is true, it is accepted. Article 2- Article 1 is valid in case Erdogan is wrong. After all, it's a dictatorship. Today's presidential system is their longing for the Federation beneath their tongue, and the result of that is division. For now, I'm just expressing these views. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0019par0032	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0020par0033	Mr. Fakibaba, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0019par0034	Mr. President, there's teasing. I'd like to take your word for it, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0020par0035	What did he say?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0019par0036	I mean, there was this one time with the identity issue and the presidential thing, and the bullying about me. I want to exercise my right to answer.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0021par0037	No teasing, sir! What tease? I answered his words to us.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0020par0038	Mr. Fakibaba, if you have a few things to say, it's in the transcripts, because there's nothing to inform you of.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0019par0039	Okay.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0020par0040	Not on the stand, Mr. Fakibaba, from your...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0019par0042	Sir, I've spoken my mind, I've spoken my faith. So when I say the problem of identity, I say that my Kurdish brothers, my Turkish brothers, my Arab brothers, my Laz brothers...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0022par0043	Any objections? Do you object to that?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0019par0044	I mean, look, it could be, it's in your birth certificate; look, I respect him. But it's not natural to ignore a Kurdish identity here... that's what I think. That's my opinion. Mr. President, this is my opinion.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0022par0045	Do you have any objection to that? Do you object to that? Say it clearly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0019par0046	Secondly, Mr. President is mortal; today is present, tomorrow is absent. We really need to look at what the interests of the Republic of Turkey are here. Of course, it's not our President or us, it's our people, it's Parliament. I mean, could it be as natural as discussing it in the House? In this context, I thank you, but in my opinion, I believe that the system should now be the presidential system. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0023par0048	Thank you, Mr. Fakibaba. Members of lawmakers, especially when we use statements about Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, or others who are not here, I think it's right not to make accusations in some unjust and dispossessive manner of thinking about their personalities.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0024par0050	And, sir, is our late Prime Minister alive, which is attributed to this? Then we shouldn't say anything. So I haven't made any statements against individuals or individuals that are offensive. Those opinions will be discussed naturally.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0023par0051	Mr. Akçay, I understand. Mr. Demirel, you've entered the system.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0025par0054	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have brought up the agenda for prisons today, but unfortunately there is a government in this country that is not treated equally for all party groups. Because Can Dündar, many political prisoners, including Erdem Gül, are not getting approval from any of our group who want to go to the opinion of them. We know there is no need for approval, we are lawmakers who have been sent to prison many times, but unfortunately there is no equal approach to groups in Parliament in the process. I'd like to make this especially clear on behalf of our group that I've asked him to file a report. We've been expressing it for days, and I'd like to rephrase the fact that there's been a human crime committed right now. In seven days, six of our citizens and six of our citizens were killed. At the moment, three of our 22 citizens are too heavy and can't even drink water, in a basement, in a basement for seven days. For seven days, people have been starving, thirsty, injured, and still prevented from being taken to the hospital by ambulances, and if a government, power and state can't even get 22 people to the hospital, we'd like to know who's running this country. Do different forces run this country? We ask the Minister of Interior, Minister of Health, Minister of Defense in private: If you take wounded citizens in one country for seven days...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0023par0057	Complete, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0025par0058	...if we can't take an ambulance to the hospital, it's a disgrace to this country, and we say the government is responsible for what happened there in the first place. And once again, Ferhat Karaduman, Veli Çelik and Sultan River are struggling to survive in a very heavy situation. Yes, it's a crime of humanity. We have stated that we will not be a party to the crimes committed by humanity, and we have announced once again that three of our friends are on hunger strike on behalf of our group as a result of talks with our fellow MPs, the Home Secretary, to resolve this problem. As a result of a hunger strike in the Ministry of Interior for 36 hours, we'd like to say once again that the group has decided that the hunger strikes continue in our group. If this problem does not be solved here today, either in Parliament or in the government, if the government doesn't solve this problem, the number of our friends who will go on a hunger strike will increase, and the government and the government will be responsible for the deaths in the first degree. We'd like to remind you one more time. And I would also like to say that at the same time, political genocide operations -- we talked about arrests, prison -- continue. Yesterday, Elazığ district of Karakoçan district of Elazığ, our co-mayor Burhan Büşük, has been taken into custody by our political council members and political party executives, and Burhan Büşük has had a heart attack while he is in custody and is currently in surgery. So these problems can't be solved with a political genocide operation, arrests, leaving them to die. Burhan is saying this once again, Burhan wishes our great friend an immediate recovery, and in custody... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we want our friends released immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0026par0064	Yes, we're going to talk about the Justice and Development Party proposal. I'll have the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal read and processed according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, and I'll submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Friday 29/01/2016 (today), I would like to request that the following proposal of our group be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President Within 48 hours of the number 97 Bill of Law, which has been printed and distributed, the order of the Agenda's "Law Bill and Proposals and Other Jobs From Commissions" will be placed in the 13th place; On Friday, 29/01/2016 (today) it will continue its work until the completion of the work of law bill 97; The meeting of the General Assembly on Tuesdays 2, 3 and 4 February 2016, Wednesdays and Thursdays (February 4, 2016) is the end of the talks on Friday (now) between 29/01/2016, and the end of the talks until the Bill of Law 97; In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Charter of 97, it is considered the basic law and its sections in the accompanying form, It's recommended. The first statement in favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal belongs to the MP Hakan Sergeant-oglu. Here you go, Mr. Sergeant. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0027par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with respect and conversation. At the beginning of my words, I pray for patience, strength and strength to our security forces fighting terrorists in the East and Southeast Anatolian region of our country, and for God's mercy to our martyrs. Again, I also celebrate the Day of National Resistance and Solidarity, which cost time after a struggle by the Western Thracian Muslim Turkish minority, which I came out of today, 28 years ago. In a moment, I'm going to give you a few more disclosures on this matter. Dear friends, we're making arrangements for the agenda with the group proposal we've given. According to this, we are putting the talks of the law, which has been printed in 97 rows and is called the AR-Ge law in public, into 13th place, and in the time before that, we intend to discuss 12 international contracts and settle them today. As you know, we bring up international contracts with these countries here before our President and Prime Minister's overseas travel, and they're contracts for the same process. After the meeting of these contracts is over, next week, if we can complete them today -- our coven will take a break, it won't work next week, but if we don't finish it, we'll continue our talks from Tuesday from where we left off. Again, we predict that the Plan Budget Commission will not work in this framework if we finish it today. I think all groups will agree in agreement. I stated at the beginning of my words, my dear brothers, my fellow lawmakers, that the Western Thracian Muslim Turkish minority is today (January 29th) the Day of National Resistance and Solidarity. Today, all minority members of West Thrace are celebrating this day as a day of resistance in America, Australia, various countries of Europe, Turkey and West Thrace. At the beginning of my words, I would like to continue by asking and answering: Friends, West Thrace is a land section between Iskece and the border of Kavala, which separates Turkey from Greece, and Nestos, or Karasu River, which divides Turkey from Greece. A total of 8,700 square kilometers of land is a Muslim Turkish minority entrusted to Greece on 24 July 1923 by the Lausanne Agreement. As of today, the total population is around 150,000. The non-Muslims in Istanbul have been left in exchange for the minority. Of course, in the 1920s, when the treaty was signed, the demographic structure of the Muslim minority in Western Thrace is much higher than the Greeks in the region; 80 percent live in the region; the remaining 20 percent are Greeks. As we look at today, we see the opposite; there are 30 percent left, the Muslim Turkish minority, 70 percent of which are Greeks. This is also the case with land ownership. The property owned by Turks in the 1920s was 85 per cent and has now been reduced to 15 per cent. Even these rates tell us that the minority in the region, unfortunately, is exposed to assimilation, oppression, and various injustices by the country in which it is entrusted. In particular, since the junta in 1967 it's called the junta -- since the coup, the pressure on the minority has begun to rage.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0028par0094	Now there's the junta.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0027par0095	In the first half of the 1970s, the expression "Turkish minority elementary school" written in minority elementary schools was removed from the expression "Turkish" (Turkish). Instead, there was only a minority elementary school. With regard to the property of the few in the 1980s, the foundation should have chosen the trust administration itself, while today, by means of the appointment of the few by Greece, the provision of the foundations is out of our society's hands, unfortunately, disappearing, tax penalties are being dealt with. While such injustices took place, the Gümülcine Association of Turkish Teens, which had been operating in Gümülcine since 1927, has also filed an appeal to the Governorate in connection with our association of Turkish Teachers, which has been operating since 1928. In this case...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0028par0097	Like you did with the Kurds. Exactly what you're doing to the Kurds right now.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0027par0098	We've never had a gun in our hands, ma'am.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0028par0099	It's like, it's like... With tanks... Guns aren't enough, you hit with tanks.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0027par0100	The Muslim Turkish community has never, ever deviated from legitimate means, will not deviate.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0028par0102	You hit with tanks, tanks. City centers are full of tanks.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0029par0103	The Muslim Kurdish community has not deviated.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0027par0104	The Muslim Turkish community, with the Lausanne Peace Accord...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0028par0105	Aren't Kurds Muslim?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0027par0106	...is the only community in the world known for its minority status, so don't forget that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0028par0107	The Kurds became Muslims before you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0030par0108	The Muslim Kurdish community is the main element in Lausanne, you denied it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0027par0109	My dear brothers, now due to the lawsuits filed by the Governorates of Gümülcine and Iskeçe, as a result of the courts' trial, the Association of Turkish Youths has been shut down due to a mathematical effort to establish a separate ethnic identity in the region.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0028par0110	Just like now.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0027par0111	Likewise, the Union of Turkish Teachers has been closed for the same reason.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0031par0112	Just like you did.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0032par0113	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0027par0114	See, this decision to be closed has been moved to the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court has approved the decision to be closed on November 4, 1987, and the minority has only been informed of it on January 5th. As a result of years of lawlessness, pressures, assimilation policies, the moment the knife is based on bone, the decision was learned -- I draw your attention here -- the High Minority Council made a decision on January 25th. At the same time, from the Old Mosque to the province building -- at the end of the month -- to peace and quiet -- the minority community will walk and declare a statement and disperse. The Greek state, for the same reason, rejected it by betting what the Greeks wanted, and unfortunately, it was not allowed to perform Friday prayers there. Therefore, the Muslim minority from various parts of Western Thrace, along with its elderly youth, was driven to the Gümülçüne, where roadblocks, roadblocks, and barriers were created and were not allowed; as well as when Greek fanatics were placed in hospitals by the leaders of our society by iron bars, stones, and clubs. My dear brothers and sisters, two years later, this time, to commemorate the same history, it was decided to arrange a deposit at the Old Mosque in Gümülcine. Again, permission has been asked, again not answered, but something else has been done. Radios in Şümülcine have begun to provoke Greek fanatics to attack the Turks, revealing that a Greek in a hospital was struck by a Turk lying in the same hospital, lying in a room, and life-threatening image.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0033par0116	Isn't that what you made me attack after June 7th?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0027par0117	And so did Gümülcine and Maronia Metropolitan Damaskinos, when they explained the same method, where, unfortunately, only Turkish shops were attacked, our people were hit, and 400 shops were looted because the Greeks hung little Greek flags in their shops. The Helsinki report also found that the police had not interfered in any way, and that was written in the United States Foreign Rights Report. Now, the only thing to do here is to make a statement from the Old Mosque, from Friday's exit to the county square. Guys, why? Because the Turkish expression was not used. My dear brothers, look, I'm an AK PARTY MP, and this country has a problem of thirty-forty years. From the time we arrived, I wanted to make a song in Kurdish by putting aside the concept of security in this country, but by putting the freedom paradigm here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0034par0119	You're killing now, what's the difference?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0027par0120	I am a Kurd. Sherafettin Elçi who called himself a Kurd. As he was conducting an investigation, today the name of Sharafettin Elçitin is my beloved brothers at the airport.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0035par0122	Wow, what an honor!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0027par0123	While prisoners could not speak to their mothers, Kurdish institutes opened and earned the right to education in their own language.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0036par0124	Where?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0037par0125	I'm sorry, where?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0038par0126	I thought you said you weren't comfortable being teased when you spoke to a preacher. Shame! You were uncomfortable. We're being patient here, we're reading the century. Why are you picking on me? You can't talk there anymore.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0037par0127	Are you interfering as head of management?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0038par0128	No, I'm a congressman.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0037par0129	Well, sit down, sit down.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0039par0130	Guys, look, their goal here is to study well. The goal is to create a trial between the brotherhood law, to separate the union between the two communities from each other for centuries, by putting them in a trial.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0038par0131	Look, what you were saying yesterday: let him speak. Let him speak.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0040par0132	But you talk the most.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0038par0133	Shame on you, shame on you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0041par0134	You have the right to interfere with everyone.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0042par0135	My dear brothers, the Republic of Turkey is a great state. The Republic of Turkey is an even bigger state with the AK PARTI powers because all the people who live in our entire civilization and heart geography are stepping on the ground more firmly during the AK PARTI rule period, pushing more securely.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0041par0136	Yeah, you haven't taken the wounded in eight days, eight days. People are screaming for water.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0042par0137	And from now on, they will continue to pray for the power of this country, and I say they will always support it, and I salute you with that feeling and that thought.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0043par0139	The first word against the Justice and Development Party's proposal belongs to Manisa MP Free Special. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0044par0141	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Once again, we face a ruling party group proposal. There's another innovation, a new proposal for the parliament's working order. I will express our opinion on that issue, but there is a situation that we are facing today -- especially in the speech of Mr. Faqibaba. At the request of the President of Turkey, the parliamentary system, Justice and Development Party and Parliament Speaker, and members of the Council of Justice and Development, elected members of the Justice and Development Party in the Parliament, the commissions, are deliberately and algebraic, now engaged in zoning. And the marks of Mr. President's speech yesterday, the instructions he gave during his meeting with the trustees, all at once, make it look like the first target to the presidential system was to destroy the parliamentary system to prepare Turkey as a whole. I've recently stated that the bag of legislation that we're meeting today is the 6th law that was passed in the Parliament, which was passed late yesterday, except by international agreements. One of them was the temporary budget law, the other five were the bags, and five were discussed in the Plan Budget. In fact, the expertise commissions that should be discussed were separate, but with the participation of the tube baby, the salary of the sergeant will be given to the specialist, T.C. To combine the amount of the military with the identity card in the same bag, and then to write to the National Defence Commission, the Internal Commission, the Health Commission, we can't see much of our work load, let Plan Budget discuss it. To write it down and write it down as Plan Budget. Someone is trying to block this Parliament, defunction this Parliament, insulting 550 lawmakers. This Parliament is being hit directly by an unnamed civilian coup. According to the expertise of all lawmakers in this parliament, they took authority, took office, and came here. When you look at it, you have mayors in the Internal Affairs Commission, you have former trustees, you have governors, you have teachers in public administration, but you're going to talk about what the Interior Commission is going to discuss in Plan Budget. The plan is to adopt the budget by majority votes of 25 AKP MPs as a sub Parliament, a law-making factory, a bag of law-making and packaging centers, so that you ignore the color, power, diversity in the special commissions, accept the Parliament that constitutes them in its absence, send the bags or bags prepared in non- Parliament to be published immediately in the daily newspaper. So you really have no purpose but to show Parliament, debate, negotiations, commissions are not needed; you have no purpose but to show them in a piece that will be redefined and simplified in a new system that will emerge later. In all the President's speeches, you can see these marks, but one of the most important ones, Mr. President, said to the trustees: If necessary, do not search for legal property to fight HDP municipalities and parallel structures. Do what you have to do. Look, the President's powers are set in Article 104 of the Constitution. Its most important task is to ensure that the institutions of the state, their organs, work in harmony with each other. The most basic task he's given is to ensure that the forces are separated and the forces work in harmony with each other, but he's putting the separation of forces under way. We have lived here, one by one, the example of the law, the law, the living, the life of the living, the life of the living. This is the right of law over the judiciary, you have to look at the MIT Law, or you have to stop any judgment you can think of, you have to change the judges, you have to do the work of executives, you have to redesign the HSYK, you can sit down and talk about it all. But basically, there's no point in telling the president about article 104, or telling him about his oath of neutrality and honor, he doesn't hear them anymore, he doesn't hear them at all, he says other things. But I address the governors, and I address all the civil servants who are in charge of what the President says. The Constitution has a Article 137, which regulates the illegal decree, says: "If you receive orders from your superiors against the Constitution, the law, or even the sub-laws, do not follow this order. Although it is required to be implemented, we say it in writing to the governors: the president's words are of no importance. Each of you is responsible for your own conscience, and you are bound by this Constitution. Tomorrow, someone will do what they want, and if they can't, they'll walk away. It's not what Mr. Fakibaba said -- let God take care of it -- but eventually they'll go in democratic ways. But then the governors, the governors, are real lawyers who will hold them accountable according to this Constitution. Based on today's relative situation, no one should take office from the President and do anything illegal based on the assurances promised today. I'd like to say to Mr. Fakibaba, Mr. Fakibaba, who said that Mr. Fakibaba put up a period and had some behavior that was appreciated in Turkey and so on and so forth and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on, and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on, and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on, and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so and so and so and so on and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so and so and so and so and so and so forth, and so on and so, and so and so and so and so and so and so on and so, and so, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so, and so, and so, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so Then tell them that even if there is a president's system, we will not make Recep Tayyip Erdogan the president, we will not even run for president. We will place a temporary clause.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0045par0149	Why would we say that?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0046par0150	Are you worried about Recep Tayyip Erdogan?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0044par0151	Look, I'll tell you a intimacy test, the intimacy test: even though the President is going to be Kemal Kilicdaroglu, we are against the presidential system, friends, we are so clear.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0045par0153	You're the one who needs to defend the most!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0047par0154	He's only president at the convention, he can't be president anywhere else.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0044par0155	That's what it's like to love a country, to believe in a system, to not surrender its will to a human being, friends. You're just gonna sit there and talk straight.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0048par0156	Let's not talk about individuals, let's talk about the system, Mr. Free.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0044par0157	What does this have to do with Erdogan? We want it for the country. You won't say it, friends.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0048par0158	We want it for the country. Recep Erdogan is a great match for him, too.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0044par0159	Then tell me this. We reminded Erdogan of this Parliament. We said that if the people elected the President, the President and the Prime Minister would be able to find legitimacy, access to each other's fields, and there would be a conflict of authority. The President said to his critics that both the elected President and the elected Prime Minister would be fine, and there would be no problem.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0049par0160	Free, coming, coming, coming, coming, coming, coming, coming, coming.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0044par0161	At the point where he came in today, look what you're trying to do. This is your Pravda, this is your Pravda.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0050par0162	Fear doesn't help at all!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0051par0163	He's coming.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0044par0164	Here is your Pravda, who threatens for you, who swears in your place, when the day comes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0052par0165	People do if you don't want to.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0044par0166	What did he write today? Do you remember this from somewhere? Precious citizens of the Republic of Turkey, on June 7th, you put your will into place and single-handedly removed the AKP (AKP) from power. The president's chief advisor, and from behind, this newspaper chose the chaos of the nation. Now, it's said that if we come alone -- the chaos will stop, the fighting will stop until the president chooses. You're saying, "I'll burn until June 7th." You've shown the country what chaos is going to happen until November 1st, and you're saying, "If we come alone -- if 400 MPs are taken -- then chaos will stop. You're saying now: "The President chooses." It's either the presidency or chaos. Shame on you! That's all I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0053par0168	Where did the martyrs of your reign go?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0054par0169	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0055par0170	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0054par0171	Mr. President, Mr. Free has made a statement that we don't run commissions, that we're trying to violate the parliamentary system, that we don't deserve the big picture to be like this...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0055par0172	Here you go, sir. I'll give you two minutes. Let's not afford another tease, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0056par0175	He comes into your dreams, Recep Erdogan, into your dreams.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0057par0176	We're gonna make him president.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0056par0177	It will be, God willing.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0058par0178	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0059par0181	Mr. President, dear friends, it's not the first time that commissions, commissions, and commissions in Congress work this way, sometimes the commissions don't work, sometimes they report like this. It doesn't make much sense to try to get a big picture out of here, I'll tell you that. There have been similar studies in the past. No one's trying to miss the parliamentary system, so for 14 years, the AK PARTY has been trying to perform through the parliamentary system. The point is, can we move on with this parliamentary system -- we're not going to think about it in 14 years, we're going to look at Turkey's democratic experience -- or are we going to discuss a system change? That's what we'll look into. Now, Özgür Bey's assessment of Mr. President, of course, is the position of the party's opinion on a different island beyond Mr. President in the presidential election. Of course he's respectable, of course he'll object, he'll object. We'll understand that, but it's up to all of us to talk before we forget that the person in that office is the person who represents everyone in this country after he's elected President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0060par0183	I wish we could talk about it!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0059par0184	While he's running for office, he's behind candidates in legitimate elections, and that's the policy and morality of the political game, let me just say that first. Second: Mr. Ozgur, it seems to represent a political mind that is so obsessed with Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0061par0186	It's not just that!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0059par0187	He's telling us that we can even discuss the presidency -- if I don't get it wrong. As long as you don't nominate Mr. President. lt means the emphasis is not on the regime, it's on the inside.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0062par0190	No, you got it wrong, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0063par0191	No, no, you got it all wrong. He didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0059par0192	Mr. Ozgur, don't forget that I don't choose the President, I don't choose the President, you don't choose the people, the people will choose this.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0064par0194	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0065par0195	I have to answer the last sentence.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0064par0196	Here you go, two minutes. Let's not afford another tease, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0065par0199	Mr. President, while the esteemed MPs were listening to my speech just now, I saw him, of course, very tired, very absent-minded at the end of this busy week, again, the Republican People's Party defends the parliamentary system independent of the people, against the presidential system. We have five red lines in the new constitutional negotiations, the first four articles of the Constitution, and the parliamentary system. We don't discuss it, we don't discuss it, we don't negotiate. If it's a test of goodwill, even if it's President Kemal Kilicdaroglu, we're against the presidential system.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0066par0201	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0065par0202	But since you represent the President's dream of president, a political mind driven by the desire to be president, I'm complicating the analogy you've given us...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0066par0203	He can't even win on paper!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0065par0204	...you see the issue from that side as a political understanding, driven by the dream of a president and the desire to be one man, the dream of a single man who becomes a dictator every day, to pursue the dream of his administration. Let me ask you a question. I asked a lot of questions last semester, and I didn't get an answer. Mr. President says this is the constitution of coup. No matter where you fix it, you can't fix it. Let's do it again. Of course, he took advantage of his flesh and milk for years, of his fat, of his law enforcement, of his 10% election dam. But I thought Mr. President voted yes to the constitution of this coup. One day they had him on the air, and he said, "No, I voted." I looked at that trunk and asked a question from here, and I said, "Mr. President voted in what chest on November 7, 1982?" How many "no" votes were cast in that chest? We expect that answer as soon as possible. If you do not answer, then you will give Recep Tayyip Erdogan the answer. My respects, my love.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0067par0208	You can get his answer from the YSK. Are you that weak? Go to the YSK website, it's already there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0068par0209	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0069par0210	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0068par0211	Sir, the valuable speaker said that I was preoccupied and tired, that I misunderstood his words, and that I was wrong in that frame. An assessment I don't deserve. In this frame...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0069par0212	Mr. Bostanci, please let this be the last time, let's not challenge a new taunt, I beg you. We need to get on the agenda. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0068par0215	Mr. President, dear friends, I have listened carefully to Mr. Free, and I know the CHP's position on this matter. I suppose the friends think that Mr. Kemal won't be elected anyway.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0070par0216	Let go, brother!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0071par0217	Let it go, it's polemic!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0068par0218	We'd better pull him over, and maybe they think it's a strategy to get Mr. Recep to step aside, too, I understand.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0071par0219	Yeah, yeah!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0068par0220	But in his following sentence, if you're sincere about the presidency, then Mr. Recep Tayyip should not be a candidate, find another presidential candidate.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0072par0221	I didn't say that. I'll answer again.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0073par0222	He didn't say that, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0074par0223	Let's do you, Mr. Naci.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0075par0224	Now, here's the thing, dear friends, we're not going to choose; I've got a vote, you've got a game. There's no point in beating around the bush here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0076par0225	People will choose, people.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0075par0226	People will pick it, candidates will be in front of the public. And we don't have to try to impose on anyone here, to be rhetorical. If the nation chooses Mr. Recep, no matter how loud you shout, this nation has chosen in the past, and if that happens again, Özgür Bey will choose.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0077par0228	Their roofs collapsed.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0075par0229	So it's impossible and very undemocratic to attempt to obstruct a right and authority that belongs to the nation through the engineering of the political language here, if you will. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0078par0232	Explain what it means.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0079par0233	Thank you. Yes, the second word in favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal belongs to Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0080par0240	Look, authority belongs to the free, unconditional nation, he says. You want to write there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0081par0241	Make it love.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0082par0242	Oh, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0083par0243	Congressmans, I've invited the clerk to the stand. Please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0084par0244	Yes, Kemal Kilicdaroglu can't be a candidate.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0083par0245	Here you go, Mr. Akçay. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0085par0247	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0083par0249	Congressmans, the speaker is on the stand, so please respect the witness.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0086par0250	He won't say his name, Mr. Ceyhun, I don't know what you're defending. Mr. Kemal can't even run.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0085par0251	Mr. Uður, help me with the calm. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have received a pledge from the Justice and Development Party in favor of the group proposal. We're going to discuss a lot of international contracts today. There are no doubt many arrangements, contracts, for the benefit and interests of our country. Some even have huge delays, such as contracts on criminal revenues and financing of terrorism are very delayed. We need to get him out of here as soon as possible. Dear friends, we all have a duty to make Parliament effective and powerful. This is a duty of all parties, of all groups, of all lawmakers who are present here, it should be. We, the National Movement Party, are acting with this sense of duty in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Therefore, we hope that Parliament will make more effective, stronger, more positive decisions, and that it will pass in a certain amount of time as much as possible. And you may well appreciate that our beloved nation knows that the Nationalist Movement Party has been trying to make arrangements for the benefit and benefit of our country as soon as possible. We don't have the effort to let go, to spread time, because our principles and attitudes are clear. First my country and my nation, then my party and me. However, we see, especially in public, dear friends, that Parliament is wanted to be investigated by some of the sections. So, in some indirect ways, some people who want to change regimes, to justify personal and arbitrary governance, are undermining the awareness of society, a propaganda offensive, such as the ineffectiveness of Parliament and its ineffectiveness, and the immaculateness of society. It's up to all of us to defend Parliament, this great House. Especially in the past, periodically, but lately, you know, the Constitution and presidential debates have been brought up. The entire Constitutional Compromise Commission has established members who will serve here, and from the outside, no matter who, whether the president or foreign focus...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0087par0257	These are the issues to discuss, of course, why should we keep it a secret from the public, that will be discussed.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0085par0258	Don't waste your time, we'll argue whenever you want.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0087par0259	It's not a speech, it's a discussion. The presidency and Parliament will be discussed.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0085par0260	Look, it doesn't work for you, don't mess with my people with such negative things.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0088par0261	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0085par0263	These constitutional debates need to avoid interference that will corrupt the institutional structures, people and groups, their working order, their harmony. As we've said many times before, of course, all groups, all parties, have their own principles and principles. As the National Movement Party, we have shared our views on the Constitution over and over again with our beloved nation, taking into account yesterday, today and the future perspective, and the philosophy of state time. Our principles regarding the first four articles of the Constitution, the definition of citizenship, our national identity and unitary structure are essential to the future of our country, our nation and our children, and our grandchildren. We can't sacrifice him for certain personal ambitions, personal ambitions. Dear friends, as we look at this frame, Mr. President has made some recommendations to the trustees, so don't comply. Now, when you say "mevzuat" to a president, the Constitution comes first, the law comes first, the law comes first. Such advice is a legal and illegal suggestion to public officials, property managers, who must implement law and law in the name of the state, in the name of the government, in the name of the property. I believe that the majority of the trustees will not comply, and I advise them from here to stay in law enforcement. And I suggest that people, citizens, take care to make the best use of the situation in the best interest of the country. Now, dear friends, every once in a while, once in a while when the presidential system -- sir, here's the president of the National Movement Party -- is the founding president of our late Prime Minister, Alpaslan Türkesh, who wanted the presidential system. We've known all these years about their efforts to find an ally and an ally. However, our question has yet to be answered. We've always explained them, and I'll explain them in a nutshell. Mr. Erdogan said in 1993 about the presidential system: "This presidential system is a wannabe, and it's a recommendation of US imperialism." He went against it with very clear, very clear words. To us, those who want to improve the Prime Minister's presidential system argument through Başbug Türkesh must first eliminate these contradictions, one. The second article, since 1969, has never been defended in the National Movement Party's programme, nor in an election declaration, nor in an official document. The 1961 Constitution's two parliamentary, bilateral system has always been criticised and stated that it will be removed. This is also a well - known issue, mentioned in the Book of Basic Matters in 1968, and included in various editions of the book "Nine Light" in the book. However, they should also know that especially during the time of Ozal, our late Prime Minister, he told us -- of course, they had made the necessary statements to the executives at that time -- that the presidential system, after seeing Ozal, could be considered extremely dangerous in terms of Turkey's future, in terms of governance. So, go to France, take care of the model of France, the American presidential system when it returns from the United States, sir, then the Prime Minister wanted Turkesh. We, of course, are very pleased that nine lights are adopted, but it is not right to consider a concept by removing it from its context, for one consistency -- nine lights -- should be a comprehensive adoption. But we also see how he's been accused of certain things in the past. We believe that these discussions were extremely dangerous and wrong during a period of deep separatist activities, which led to terrorism and terrorism and almost led to the country's closeness of division. So what did you want and you couldn't do it? We say, "What did the President want, and what couldn't?" This should be made clear to the public. 1 / 1 I'll do what I say. Article 2- In case I'm wrong, the 1st article is valid. This is what I take out of Mr. Erdoğan's constitution, the two-point constitution.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0089par0269	52% is what he says!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0085par0270	For now, I'd like to extend my regards to all of you to express them in our future talks.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0090par0272	The second and final statement, on the basis of opposition to the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, belongs to Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel. Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0091par0275	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, yes, we have made a promise against this proposal because we believe that the legislature, which is always the legislature, must work and carry out its mission. There was already a mentality, an understanding, that didn't run Parliament from June 7th to November 1st. We are also facing a situation that is not allowed to work in parliament next week, and the ruling AKP (AKP) has brought as a proposal, which also supports the ruling party and approves the CHP and MHP groups who do not want to work next week. If we are here today by the will of our people, we must solve the problems of the people here. If Parliament doesn't work, if the problems of the people don't work here, if they don't, where will we work, where will we talk? Yes, all over Turkey today, especially Sur, Cizre, and Nusaybin, we want Parliament to be dysfunctional while the blood is moving the body around here. This is not an acceptable situation, and we want to say once again that we have never rejected it, and we call on opposition parties to reject it. Again, I would like to rephrase that, without discussion, without discussion, without approval, we regret that even the commissions should be transferred there as a decision to be released even the Budget Commission. We would like to rephrase the fact that a decision that has not yet been made or that the Budget Commission has not made an agenda, that it has not been considered there, that a situation that has come to parliament's agenda, and that it should be expressed there before it is approved, that we do not really see it as legal. Yes, in a country where there are so many serious problems, we've expressed it many times, once again, that unemployment, the laborer, the poor, the woman, the child's future, can't weave the process after that unless it's done its job. So, once again, we say that 28 of our citizens were kept there for seven days in the basement of brutality, where they were told that they had not been taken to the hospital despite the decision of the ECHM, but had not been taken to the hospital in spite of the decision of the ECHM, and that they had lost their lives and that they had lost their lives. Currently, six people who died in seven days, and three people who had been heavily injured there, who had not even been given water for seven days, still have not done their duty to the ruling party, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Health, the Minister of National Defence, and the ambulance still has not been taken to hospital. How do we solve the problems of this country? If we can't get 22 more injured people from a basement to a hospital, how can we solve the problems of this country? That's what we'd like to ask. I'm asking the government authorities whether the government will solve this country's problem, or the ruling party will solve it, or the locals will solve it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0092par0279	You'll figure it out, you will.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0091par0280	That cop over there, the soldier's gonna figure it out? Has the authority been handed over to the military, or will the government solve these problems? If the government is going to solve it, why hasn't it solved it by now? We're gonna ask you one more time. If he can't figure it out, who are these powers, and where do they belong? These need to be explained, explained and said by the government. Yes, the President has expressed that if anything happens to the governors, the chiefs, tell me, call me, call me personally. So, today, we're asking, we're asking, we want to know: If the Governor of Cizre, Şırnak, does not solve this problem, who does he get this order from if he doesn't allow the ambulance to pass? That's what we want to know. We ask you again, we want to know the answers to these questions. Once again, our MPs are now in the Ministry, meeting with the Ministry of Interior for 36 hours, but it's not solved, and we all know it can't be solved. To solve it, the MPs put their bodies on a hunger strike, including our group's deputy president, to ensure that the people who go there live. Since we haven't been able to get the wounded to the hospital for three days, our MPs have gone on a hunger strike. As a group, if this problem is not resolved today as a HDP group, we will go on hunger strike by increasing the number by the decision of our friends in the entire group. Yeah, our party's deputies are in the area. Where? In Mardin, Diyarbakır, Şırnak, with the people. He sees with them what the people are going through, and he shares with them all their lives, together with what is happening.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0093par0284	Organised business!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0094par0285	You've turned it into Kerbala, don't you have a conscience? You're still talking!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0091par0286	Let's just say, once again, that the esteemed MPs are more than half our MPs in Şırnak, Mardin, Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0095par0287	With the terrorists!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0091par0288	President, I want him to take it back.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0096par0289	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0091par0290	I want him to take it back.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0097par0291	Congressmans, let's not interfere. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0091par0293	I want him to take back what he said to our lawmakers, take back what he said from the prisoners, and return it to him, and I want him to take it back.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0097par0294	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0091par0295	Our MPs are in public, seeing things for themselves. Come, let's go together. I'm making it clear that even on the battlefield there's a law, there's a humanity, a corridor opens, a delegation leaves, gets the wounded out of that corridor, brings them to the hospital, takes them to the hospital to treat the wounded, takes them to the health centre. Now come, I'm calling from here, let's go together, let's go together -- including MHP, AKP, and CHP -- we're ready -- let's go together, let's build a corridor, let's all go together, let's get the wounded out, if we can't get them out, this Parliament must do its duty, if the government, the Ministry can't do its job, then this Parliament must take this responsibility and do it by creating a corridor. I can make it very clear that you can't deal with what's happening now with just one perception misdirection. We're saying that those ambulances didn't go there, and we're very clear. We are told that the ambulances of 112 have gone and are kept waiting there, but the city ambulance and medical personnel, including the information of the authorities and the Ministry, have moved there and have not been able to get there and all the names have been given there. Obstructioned by who? We're very clear that the shots fired from the armored vehicles are blocked, there are images of this, there are images of this. Medical personnel who have been identified and trying to go to the injured are being taken into custody after being given a name, so you will either die or I will arrest you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0098par0297	Because Mehmet Karakuk had been lynched, the HDP had deceived us.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0099par0298	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0098par0299	You're talking about peace, lynched, tell me what you've done.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0100par0300	Let's not interfere, lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0101par0301	Let's be very clear: Abdulaziz Yural, one of the medical staff... it's obvious who killed the health workers, Abdulaziz Yural, Sheikhmus Dursun, and Job Ergen. Job has expressed for Ergen, Minister, that we should go together, meet their families, all the social media, all the people who have been slaughtered, the cameras, are very clearly expressed, and there are images. So the governor's, local authorities' false information, Parliament and ministers shouldn't allow this false information.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0102par0302	All you talk about is lies!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0101par0303	If you believe, let's all go together, if you are, let's go together, and we'll see all the problems there together. Say yes and we'll trust you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0103par0305	I submit to your votes the Justice and Development Party Group, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0104par0306	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0103par0307	Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0104par0308	Mr. President, the orator who just spoke to our group has made a serious, threatening speech to Parliament, and I'd like to answer that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0103par0309	What did Mr. Inceöz say?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0104par0310	In his speech earlier, he held the law, the power, and every one of us responsible for the deaths of the AK PARTY, but he also spoke threatening words.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0103par0311	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Don't take more than two minutes, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0104par0316	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, first of all, this is the stand of the nation, and our fellow lawmakers who stand on this stand have to speak for the nation. There have been other issues that have kept this place busy for several days, even for a few months. If you don't go out here and threaten the MPs, that's what's going to happen, and that's what's going to happen if you don't do it. No one from this stand has the right to be the spokesman for the terrorist organization. First of all, whose representation, whose spokesman we're speaking for, should be very clear about the distinction. Here are a few days that have come from top to bottom and had nothing to do with the facts, especially from the beginning of this week, where there are Faysal Yellow Star and 24 people. We've given you information about this. The ambulances are coming in through a secure area, but we said it couldn't go to the other side as a result of the shootings both from the pits and from nowhere. In that area today, around 7:05 a.m., Faysal Sarıyıldıldıldı was occupied by Parliament for several days, and there were those we said were lies, there were wounded. There were five people who were injured by terrorists and five others, one of whom were martyrs, Yusuf Haldun Adul, others injured by his finger, leg, and other limbs. I thought the ambulances weren't coming. When we take the ambulances there in the form of a safe zone, one of our expert sergeants becomes a martyr and others get hurt. When you come to this stand, you will not be speaking deceptively to our Kurdish brothers, 78 million of our citizens in Turkey, and you will speak the truth.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0105par0319	You were there, how do you know?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0104par0320	However, from the words of our President, he speaks the truth, and he speaks the truth about this. He's telling you, win a ditch, enforce the law against potholes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0106par0321	It's easy to talk from here. Then go to that area.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0107par0322	Come, see, don't talk here. We're there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0108par0323	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz. Your time is up.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0109par0325	What kind of dictator... you describe a dictator who declares he won't do business in spite of the people?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0110par0327	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0108par0328	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0110par0329	I want a direct say in our group and the accusations against us.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0108par0330	What exactly did he say? Because I...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0110par0331	The spokesman for the terrorist organization...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0111par0332	What didn't he say, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0108par0333	That's what I have to ask everyone, folks, according to the Civil Code. I didn't say no. Here you go. Okay.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0111par0335	You don't ask everyone, you just ask us.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0112par0336	You don't ask other groups.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0108par0337	I've asked Mrs. İlknur, and I'm asking everyone. No, that's my job. According to the Civil Code, I have to ask who wants to speak and why. Here you are, Mr. Ironel. Without a new pick-up in two minutes...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0113par0341	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0114par0342	Is this the middle of nowhere? Oh, my God! He has to ask. Open up, read the Civil Code, learn.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0115par0343	What are you talking about? What are you yelling about? What's going on? What's going on?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0114par0344	I'm not yelling.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0116par0345	Now, false or false information comes out very clearly from here, my friends. Friends, the deputy leader of the group says... (AK PARTY and HDP rows indiscriminately) Friends...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0117par0347	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0116par0348	Mr. President, is that any way to talk?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0117par0349	I'm telling your group, I'm telling the other group, I'm telling them all. Please, friends... Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0118par0352	So if you could reboot, I couldn't even use a sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0117par0353	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0118par0354	Okay, thank you, Mr. President. Now, let me put it this way, Mr. Faysal Yellowstar is not even in the area. Let me be clear, he's not even in the area.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0119par0356	He's got a gun, where he's taking the gun, what's he gonna do? Is Faisal carrying a gun?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0118par0357	At that time, he was in Cizre, Şırnak MP and Cizre MP. He's not in the basement.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0120par0359	I said Cizrede, Cizrede.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0119par0360	Do you have your snipers with you? Faysal, do you have your snipers with you?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0118par0361	Mr. Group Vice President says: "Faysal Yellowstar and those who are in it are there." I make it very clear from here to the AKP, which targeted Faysal Yellowstar. All my friends here, they've just been told...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0120par0363	Don't twist my words!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0121par0364	Guys, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0118par0365	...we're not going to let any of our members be spoken to, so let's say this one more time. He is also a member of this Parliament.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0122par0366	Is Faisal carrying a gun there?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0123par0367	Then he'll come and be in Parliament, not a spokesman for terrorists.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0124par0368	Are you going to decide, Mayor, or are you? Jesus Christ, why aren't all your deputies here?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0125par0369	Faysal Yellowstar is a member of this Parliament. He is an elected MP from Cizre. He'll be there, of course he'll be there, he'll be there, he'll be there, he'll be with the people. Like you, lying doesn't give false information. You will take back all the words you said about Faysal Yellow Star.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0126par0371	No way!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0125par0372	We're going to start the legal proceedings, and we're going to get all the paperwork out. Faysal Yellow Star struggles to save people's lives.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0127par0373	He's out there fighting to save the lives of terrorists!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0128par0374	Why don't he come in here and be a deputy?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0125par0375	Let's go to Cizre one day for two hours, I'll invite you to Cizre, let's go for two hours. Let's clear the roads, go for two hours, be with the people of Cizre. Faysal Yellow Star is not where the basement is, so let's rephrase that. That's how false false information gets passed on to you, so you get up here and talk about it with all this false information.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0128par0376	Your information is correct...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0125par0377	So this is the government, the government, the ministers today can't solve the problem because of false information. The information there is false and false to you. I'm making that very clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit02spe0129par0379	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0129par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly As part of strengthening the parliamentary diplomacy dimension of our country's opening policy to Latin America and the Caribbean, the non-zoning member of the Latin American Parliament (PARLATNO) was eligible for 13 January 2016 and 02 Decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The issue of being an observer member is submitted to the General Assembly under Article 1 of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. All those in favor... those who do not accept... are in favor of a countermeasure. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca has been nominated for one member of the Justice and Development Party Group, which has been idle in the Parliamentary Research Commission, established to investigate negative factors affecting family integrity and divorce events. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Under the decision taken, we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, ranking 1st, in accordance with the Agreement on Economic and Trade Co-operation between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Peru. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 64 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. The negotiations are complete.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0130par0030	I do. What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0129par0031	Where's your word?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0130par0032	There is, President, we want to talk.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0129par0033	Okay, but you're gonna have to let me know in advance, guys.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0131par0034	Speak in the matter now.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0129par0035	Talks are complete on all of them. I'll give you my word on the matter.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0132par0037	The president wants to talk to our friend Mehmet Emin Adıyaman on all of it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0129par0038	On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman is on the whole bill. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0133par0041	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, curfews have been imposed in the region for a long time, and during these curfews, we see that both soldiers, police, and civilian citizens, and again, guerrillas are dead, eventually the children of this country and the parents of this country shed tears. We have repeatedly stated that curfews do not have a legal basis for our internal law, that this is an actual situation, which is fundamentally contrary to the existing Constitution and internal legislation. Although the government bases the basis for the curfews on Article 11 of Law 5442, it is in our opinion, and according to the existing Constitution, it is ineffective and unconcerned by the governors. Where do we get that from? Article 13 of the Constitution has made clear the conditions under which freedoms will be restricted. In the provisions of the Constitution, which continue to date to Article 119, 120 and 122, in connection with this, it has made it clear to the country in what conditions, in what circumstances, and even in what conditions, the state of emergency, even martial law, and the procedure of the declaration.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0134par0044	Mr. President, what does the witness' speech have to do with the contract?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0133par0045	Dear friends, the government does not comply with these agreements, but it does not comply with the international agreements signed by Turkey. As you know, the 90th article of the Constitution has ruled that international agreements are binding in terms of our internal law, and that there will be no appeal to the Constitutional Court of Human Rights. Thus, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights comes at the beginning of the agreements on basic human rights signed by Turkey. Dear friends, the 1st article of the United Nations Bill of Rights is that all people are born equal at birth and have equal rights. Again, it ensures that it cannot be discriminated against because of its properties, such as race, color, gender, language, religion; its right to live on Article 3 is guaranteed by sovereign states; its fifth article cannot be tortured; it cannot be practiced cruelly, and it cannot be carried out in violation of human honor. And the sequel is 9, 10, which guarantees a lot of basic human rights, including property rights, rights to travel, freedom of expression. Turkey signed this United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights on 6 April 1949. What has been implemented today under curfew is a clear indication that all the rights in Turkey's contract signed in 1949 have been taken underfoot. The right to travel is violated by curfew, property is violated, right of life is violated, and more importantly, it is openly discriminated against because of the ethnic and cultural structure of the region. In addition, there are members of a terrorist organization in Cizre, Tyre, or Silopi. A collective punishment system is being carried out on the grounds of such a crime, for example, by violating the principle of the criminal law and the individuality of the international contract, which is clearly expressed by international agreements.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0135par0048	Mr. Orator, say something about Peru.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0133par0049	Suppose, as the government claims, even if there are some armed men out there, you can't punish a collective group of 120-130,000 people. Dear friends, there is also a European Convention on Human Rights that strengthens the Bill of Rights and is parallel to it, you know. Turkey has also signed this contract. This agreement makes and guarantees the provisions of the United Nations Convention on Human Rights more concrete, clearer, and clearer. The European Convention on Human Rights also underpins the relevant provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, such as life rights, discrimination, housing, travel and freedom of expression, under the direction of the current government, arbitrary, ineffective and local governor. Actually, this is a serious constitutional offense. Because the 90th article of the Constitution has made it clear that all of these provisions, these international agreements, are subject to the Constitutional Court as a Constitutional provisions, and that even his objection to the Constitutional Court is inconclusive. In accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights, where Turkey has also adopted its sanction and has adopted the right to judge, has recently lost five lives, even though only five decision on precautionary measures regarding Cizre has decided to stop the execution. Dear friends, the main problem here is that in Turkey, only the current government, let alone the President's office, let alone the internal law, let alone do what you know. At the same time, the current government is failing to meet its obligations due to international contracts, and its rights to international contracts are often dismissed. For example, the Kurdish problem is such a serious problem that it is such an obstacle to democratisation in Turkey that, like all of these contracts that we're talking about, when we look at the conditions of the European Local Governments, we see that Turkey puts many of these decisions on the conditions of the Local Governments, when we take too many decisions, when we withdraw them into the matter. What is the basic logic of the reservations here? Here's the logic: once we remove these reservations, when we withdraw the signature, the signature on the reservations, local governments born of the European Condition of Local Governments, can become autonomous governments. Thus, Kurds, who have been a phobia in this country for 90 years, are one of the reasons why Kurdish fear of division, of anxiety, is still a major reason for these reservations to continue. But the fact is that the provisions of international universal law, international contracts, and the conditions of the local governments, which the world, especially the European Union, are essential to the implementation of direct democracy in Turkey and in Europe. The primary way for local democracy to build a democratic system is to build a decentralisation system, as it has found its statement in the Condition of Local Governments. That's what we need to arrive at as a natural consequence of the process of sociological development in history. As you all know, the emergence of states is ancient Greek website states. In the Middle Ages, we see that these states are either empires by the identity of religion or through the identity of sects, but they also maintain their decentralisation. The nation, which was created by the bourgeois ideology of the capitalist age, has completed its term for the day from 1,700 years to now. We all see the practice of it in the world, how it's solved, every day. Here are the states in the 21st century, where decentralisation prevails, where local governments are strengthened, social property, differences can organize themselves at a local level, and can bring themselves into the decision process, and instead build the pluralistic, democratic nation paradigm, from the nation's state, from the nation's culture of this capitalist modernity or capitalist age, from the nation's state structure, and all the problems have been overcome. Unfortunately, countries that can't get over it still can't get over their internal problems with this system, they're facing internal conflicts and further disintegration. Dear friends, at the point of solving the Kurdish problem, which is also an important problem in Turkey today, we see that administratively and politically, the Constitution's situation and the administrative structure that has produced problems over the years must be reviewed. There are examples of the process and the fact that we have been able to solve the Kurdish problem that has cost the lives of many of our people and billions of dollars in economics over the past 30 years, and that we can reach a democratic republic and a democratic nation in a common country, their models are many in the world. Look, there have been similar problems in Ireland for years, but for many years, Britain has found a way to resolve this problem with oppression, violence, denial, to resolve it somehow, through negotiations and democratic methods, and to solve the Northern Ireland problem, as you all know. Again, between the FARC guerrillas and the Colombian government, which have been going on for years, the process that has killed thousands of people is increasingly reaching peace, a democratic solution. More importantly, the issue between the Moro Islamic Liberation Front and the Philippines government, which Turkey has personally played, which is Turkey's personal role and is the primary analyst in the process of resolving it. The Moro National Liberation Front, established in the 1960s, held various talks with the government in the 1980s, and, following the agreement on semi- autonomy, the Islamic Liberation Front, which left the Moro National Liberation Front, refused to accept this semi-independence agreement, and fought this side of the Philippines in 1981. But despite many talks, many talks being ineffective, the beginning of conflicts, and at times the government resealing the existing contracts, although the Moro Islamic National Liberation Front at times gave up the existing agreements, the process continues to be an observer and Turkey is also an observer, and even witnesses to the practice of the government's ability to reach a solution process in the process of leaving arms, even the government of the Philippines. Dear friends, there are practical experiences in which similar issues have developed in other countries, in which methods, in which ways, in how they can be resolved, in how they can be resolved. By volunteering in the Philippines, perhaps more than 10,000 kilometers away from us, with great enthusiasm, the government of the Republic of Turkey, which has played a role in a great deal of enthusiasm, has to work more enthusiastically, more constructively, and more creatively in solving the Kurdish problem, which is primarily in itself, in its own state, and causing great suffering. A government that cannot solve a problem within its own country, whether it is in the Philippines, or in any country in Africa, or in a country in Latin America, is a mediator, observer. The government's stance on the Kurdish issue, the concept of war, denial, denial, re-invention, and re-violence and violence, is punishable collectively by its policy to address violence, especially by the curfew imposed on Turkey for the past two or three months and violating human rights. Even if this is not subjective intent, the practice of mass punishment, mass prison creation is applied in practice. So these applications are a reality that, as they actually create a sense of emotion in the region, the results will be much heavier to us in maybe two years or three years. According to the General Staff's data, around 900 or so -- in a nail -- the terrorist was presumed killed within the last two months, in these curfews. Friends, for a moment, 950 people don't come from space, this country's children, and the alleged murderer has at least 10 relatives. We face the fact that in just two months, 9,000 people in Turkey, 9,000 close relatives, were affected by it. Likewise, when we assume that the families of the dead soldiers and gendarmes experience the same kind of emotional breakdown... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] At this rate, in this way, we face the fact that this problem will cause much deeper, deeper wounds. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0136par0068	Speeches for the group are complete. The first statement on behalf of the individuals is from Ankara MP Murat Emir. Mr. Emir, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0137par0073	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our council, our House. Dear friends, as of yesterday, the Republic of Turkey, we have won an important first place. But I'm afraid that first place wasn't a first place we'd all be proud and happy with. According to the European Court of Human Rights statistics in 2015, we have been reduced to a country in freedom of expression, where freedom of expression is the most punished, the most tried and punished. This is an important, urgent issue where we, first of all, will all be very upset and will come up with solutions from here. See, the European Court of Human Rights faces 28 cases in 2015, 10 of which belong to Turkey and Turkey is being convicted, unfortunately. It's not just these. See, Turkey is third place in the European Court of Human Rights, with 8,450 cases after Ukraine and Russia. I'm afraid we've been convicted of 20 convictions, torture and abuses in terms of the right to a fair trial, 14 convictions, and 13 convictions based on the lack of sufficient judicial prosecution against the violation of the right to live. Dear friends, I find it useful to remind you that Turkey is one of the rare countries in which 29 journalists are imprisoned in prison. These, of course, are the first in the world, in which we cannot be happy, in which we feel great pain. We'll have to go over it and fix it as soon as possible. See, what is freedom of thought? Freedom of thought must be taken very broadly. Freedom of thought and expression; freedom of thought and opinion; but that is not enough, access to thought and knowledge; that is not enough, it includes the right to spread thought and knowledge. Thus, this freedom, which guarantees the right to develop an individual's material and spiritual existence, also plays a key role in democratizing society. Dear friends, freedom of expression, freedom of thought is essential, it can be revealed, it can be spread, it's freedom of the press. Unfortunately for the freedom of the press, we can't stop being the last of the world. Freedom of the press is the foundation of democratic society, the keeper of democracy. The most basic criteria for whether or not the country's regime is democracy is freedom of expression and freedom of the press that takes its origin. The freedom of the press is one of the things where the authorities, not the things that the government likes, but the things that they don't like, the things they don't like, the things they don't like, the things they don't want to be made clear, and because these ideas are expressed, these articles are written, and because these reports have been written, they're not subject to prosecutions, investigations, and arrests. The European Court of Human Rights clearly states in its decisions that there is only freedom of press in this country, freedom of speech, not enough. We have an obligation to take effective measures to ensure that the state, the government, you, all of us, freedom of expression and freedom of the press live. Through these effective measures, we can provide freedom of the press. See, I'd like to read to you a decision by the European Court of Human Rights on freedom of the press: in a democratic system, press and public control play a role as effective and as important as administrative and judicial control to ensure that those in possession of public power can use their powers within legal limits. Since it depends on the freedom of the press to perform this function for the public, freedom of the press is a valid and vital freedom for everyone. It means that friends are as valuable as freedom of press and expression in universal law, freedom of justice and justice. Again, I would like to take a small quote from a court decision: "The European Court of Human Rights says that not only does society see positive, right or harmless news and opinions, but the government or part of the public finds negative or wrong, but they should also be freely expressed and that individuals will not be subject to any sanctions due to these statements," the European Court of Human Rights says. So what do we do, guys? Here's what we do: whatever ideas we don't like, what we don't want, what we're uncomfortable with, there's a great choir ahead of him, first Mr. President, then members of the government, then the trigger journalists of the advocacy media, and then he's not enough, this time we involve the mob leaders, and we're trying to drown every conflicting, separatist idea together. But in this country, especially in the process of building a new constitution -- you're always saying -- there's going to be a presidential system. Look, if we're going to make a constitution like this, we can only do it in an environment that guarantees freedom of press and expression. About fifteen days ago, our intellectuals, the intellectuals -- from outside this country -- issued a statement. I, personally, would not sign this statement, but I admit that there are conceptually problematic points, sentences. But, friends, we have to accept that without these discussions, without scientists, scientists, all parties expressing their views, how do we argue with them, how do we talk about our opinions, how do we find the truth? Look, I don't want to repeat the words that Mr. President used to say about these things here, but in fact, each one of them has discussed this with heavy and hurtful words that would be the subject of an insulting trial. At the same time, we will bathe with the other focal points of power from the President, even with their blood. They have brought this discussion to a level that is unsavory enough to reach its point. I would like to answer all these arguments: The 17th - century enlightenment thinker Voltaire says: "I do not accept any of what you say, but I will defend your right to say what you think until the day I die. Dear friends, Mr. President has not been able to absorb his presidential position. Every time the Constitution gives him power, he goes out of his way, and he can't help but overstep the Constitution several times a day. In fact, in his own words, this Constitution is narrow to my powers, to my actions, to my feet, to the fact that the situation has changed, to me, to make a new constitution. See, the 299th article of the Turkish Penal Code provides a special protection for Mr. President, he says: "Those who insult the President will be sentenced from one year to four years in prison." In our Constitution, the President has a special position because he represents the state and the integrity of the nation, but when we look at the implementation of the President, he is more than a representative of the integrity of the state and the nation, and every day he is at the top of a political party. Hence, the number of cases he pursues is growing like an avalanche. Look, we've been wondering, Mr. Abdullah Gül has been sued for defaming Mr. Ahmet Necdet Sezer in the last year and a half of his duty, but over 1,300 people have been sued in the last year and a half for defamation of Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0138par0086	No social media then, no social media.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0137par0087	There's a fundamental problem with...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0138par0088	Social media, social media.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0137par0089	You can't just blame social media.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0138par0090	Social media.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0139par0091	That's where most of the insults come from.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0138par0092	Ninety-five cases are social media.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0140par0093	Mr. President, like Abdullah Gul before, he couldn't fit into his constitutional position; it's a clear fact, his own statements. So, friends, freedom is the date of the constraint of the historic state authority. If we're going to develop democratization in front of us, we're going to have to live to the fullest extent of its ideal environment and freedom of thought and freedom of press. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0141par0097	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In order to make a deal with the Turkish community in terms of economics and trade-instruction between the peru community and the fact that the numbers are being carried out. Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Peru and the Economic and Trade Co-operation Agreement, signed in Ankara on 15 April 2011, has been approved. The first word on the 1st article belongs to Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0106	Mr. President, on the way to this bench, I thought, "We, as the People's Democratic Party, have been talking about the ambulance problem and the situation of the injured there for a week, and every time we tell it, it's completely rejected. None of you are asking, is that really true? Is there? If there is such a thing, why is it not done? I mean, is an ambulance problem so weak that it would turn into an international crisis that this country cannot solve, are we such a weak country? We're talking about a country this big -- in every respect -- we're talking about a huge economy, we're saying that NATO is the second largest army, we're saying that we're technically in the best place, but when an ambulance comes up, we sentence 28 people to death. We're looking at it this way because we have a problem with our point of view.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0143par0107	It's yours!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0108	From our point of view...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0144par0109	There's definitely a problem with your point of view.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0110	...there's a problem with the perspective of this House.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0145par0111	It's in yours. You have it, you have it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0112	You know why? So, now, the wounded people there are being sentenced to death as a threat and a means of blackmail. It's not human, it just has a political perspective. If it was political, I wouldn't be hurt, not even political. It's just a written rejection response. If you had a political point of view, you'd sit here and draw the political framework, and you'd stand up to it. But that's all we've been saying over the ambulance, so why isn't this ambulance going away? We're sending an ambulance, it's actually something like this. It can't give a concrete, practical response.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0146par0113	We did, we did.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0147par0114	How many times have I been told? How can you be more specific? The Minister of Health is here! How can you be more specific?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0115	He can't because he doesn't have the answer. He can't because he purposely, deliberately leads them to their deaths. On purpose, he's driving 13-year-old civilians to their deaths, and then he comes in and says, "There are people there with guns.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0148par0116	We use the truth, the channels that tell the truth, not the ones that lie.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0117	There are people with guns. You -- you're NATO's 2nd largest army -- you've got a tank, you've got a cannon, you've got an armored car. On all sides, there are armored vehicles inside the county, thousands of Special Ops; there are JSH, there are PSH, there are evadullah teams...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0149par0118	You're reading a story, a story!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0119	There's SAS, there's dozens of elements outside the local area that I don't know yet. Why, is it so hard to get those wounded out of these things? Is it that hard? Are we that weak? Doesn't this country have enough power to take those wounded?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0150par0120	That's what you want.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0151par0121	We are not weak, but it is clear to us who are weak.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0122	Doesn't this country have enough hospitals to deal with the wounded?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0152par0123	Ambulance at the end of the street.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0124	Doesn't this country have enough ambulances to take those patients?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0152par0125	There is, there is; it's on the street.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0153par0126	It's obvious who's weak.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0127	I mean, is there such a thing as weakness or is there such a thing as cowardice? Which one? Or are our perceptions that off?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0154par0128	It's open, it's open, it's clear, it's all clear.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0129	Is that all our perceptions are off? If, indeed, you would have taken away from these wounded, if they were what you think they were, concrete, practical. We went and got, see, it came out like this. You would have said, "You never continued this discussion." He'd go from day one to day, he'd get an ambulance, he'd bring it in, these people, these people, these people, you've got all these apocalypse, but there aren't any wounded here, you'd say. But as six people have lost their lives in eight days, now four people are at critical levels of life -- and they can't meet their basic needs. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] See, the same Health Ministry in Istanbul, because the ambulance was delayed for ten minutes, when they were investigating the staff of the building's health manager... CNN Türk., in response to the question asked by journalists on live TV, says:....... says: "Can you get a field of conflict there?. If our ambulances don't go, can the city's ambulances go?.......?" Yes, he can go because he knows it well. He says he'll take it. He says, "Well, why doesn't he go?" He says, "The safety won't allow it."
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0155par0133	Why are you doing this?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0134	Open up, look. Even to say, "Let them die in the lives of the people there. " And here we say, let them die.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0155par0135	The city ambulance with a gun in the coffins?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0136	So, I'm asking you, when 28 people die, people in this country...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0155par0137	And you're saying that we haven't given up on the government, that the government has every right.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0138	Would you care to intervene? ...there are 28 people who have lost their lives in an instant, and whether they have guns in them or civilians, civilians and children, when they die...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0156par0140	Ha, whether you're armed or civilian...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0141	And when you kill knowingly and willingly -- and I know you're trying to kill -- when 28 people die, if there's an infinitive, how are you going to look at it personally -- how are you going to look at it? What do you say?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0157par0142	That's what you want.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0143	If that's what we want, you can intervene.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0157par0144	We do, we do.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0145	Why don't you go get it?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0158par0147	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0148	We say we go get it, we say we create an alternative, we say we solve it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0159par0149	First drop the gun, the gun.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0160par0150	You hear what's coming your way, you don't hear what's coming your way.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0151	Even though we have all kinds of practical solutions to get...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0161par0152	Let's not intervene on the bench.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0153	From where you sit, you can't just form sentences through rejection, a dogmatic, taboo zat. That's the whole point.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0162par0154	Yeah, yeah
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0142par0156	Otherwise, I'm sure when you get out of here, even if a cat lands on the street, you pick it up, you see it's a living thing, but when it comes to the Kurdish people there, that coded nation, your primitive nationalism, gets in the way of your human emotions.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0163par0157	Don't mix it up!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0162par0158	Not at all, not at all! Terrorists are our problem with terrorists! That's your job, not ours!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0164par0159	It's not like that!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0165par0160	If, indeed, your human emotions were at the forefront today, for eight days, people here would not have made all sorts of extraordinary efforts to make such sentences for the ambulance. None of us have a problem making that many sentences.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0166par0161	We've memorized it, it's the same thing!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0165par0162	This country has hundreds of problems we're going to talk about, and we have dozens of data on how low this country has hit, numerical, statistical, scientific data.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0167par0163	Say it, say it, show me what those digits are! Show me what they are.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0165par0164	But right now, our human and principled reflex won't allow it because of a perspective that you condemn people to death because of the thought of them bleeding on one side of the country.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0168par0165	Not at all! It's not about identity, it's about organization, it's about PKK people!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0169par0166	No, it's not like that. Lies, lies!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0165par0167	Today it's not just in the Kurdistan, but if it was in Yozgat, if it were in Sivas, we would make a greater effort than you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0170par0168	When did you remember Syria? When did you remember the war in Syria, answer it!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0171par0169	You're in identity politics, ID!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0165par0170	Because we don't have a separate view of people because of their identity, and we won't. And we will never, ever look at it the way you do. Personally, I think, personally, what I would think is that the women here are a little bit different from the motherhood of femininity and a little bit more from the compassion of men is that I don't think, the people I don't tolerate, the people I see as enemies, but these people have been saying that for days, I really hear that as a human being, as a woman, a 13-year-old child is sentenced to death, and I go and...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0172par0172	Our Kurdish brothers are our brothers, not our enemies! Terrorists are our enemies!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0165par0173	...if a 13-year-old was really sentenced to death, how could I not answer? I would think about it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0173par0174	He was good when you gave him a Molotov, wasn't he?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0165par0175	But unfortunately, we've become in such a state that people make a statement about just protecting where they stand, not thinking about the next day, three years from now, five months from now, one day from now.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0174par0176	What happens to our children who are burned by the PKK in the hospital? Can we talk about the children the PKK burned? Let's talk about burning children! The children who were treated for burns are in the hospital in Ankara!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0165par0177	When all 28 people die tomorrow morning because of those tank shootings, no one here has the right to stand up and say a single word about us, because we've said it all the way to the end, with their data, their location, their address.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0174par0178	Curse terror, let's talk! Curse the PKK! Go ahead, curse it!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0165par0179	Look, we're giving out your address, we're giving out your ID information, and we're so confident that we're giving the Ministry of Health clear information, we're giving the Department of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, the Prime Minister, and we're making a clear statement here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0175par0180	Talk about the ambulances you burned.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0165par0181	A place with a sentence as clear as this...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0176par0182	You don't believe what our Prime Minister, our ministers say, but why should we believe what you say, Ma'am?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0165par0183	It's up to you: if you're making such a clear statement, I'll go and prove to you that you're not. How do I prove it? I'll go and get those wounded, I'll get them if those people have funerals, and I'll tell him in front of him, "These people aren't like that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0177par0184	Talk about the guns in the coffins.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0165par0185	But, on top of that, no to everything ordinary like you, terror, ditch, ditch, barricade... what is this?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0177par0186	Talk about the weapons coming out of the ambulances!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0165par0187	Are you talking about the ditch? You're the one who created the ditch.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0178par0189	The pit, the pit!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0165par0190	You're the one who created the pit and you're the one who created the barricade, your security policies.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0179par0191	You're the one who framed me!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0178par0192	You're in the hole, you're all pits!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0180par0193	You're all in the hole, the pit! You're all doomed!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0181par0194	If you don't make a city uninhabitable today, condemn people to death, watch them die alive every day, in seconds, in the face of those deaths, you'll never be able to judge them if the owners of those dead people, their relatives, don't have the slightest human reflex against you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0182par0195	Yeah, I wonder who's there. I wonder who's gonna get out of there. I wonder which seniors are there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0181par0196	And if 28 people were to die -- God forbid, I hope it won't -- I'm talking about 28 people -- and I'm talking about 28 people -- and I'm saying that they're all civilians, and I'm saying, I'm behind -- and you've seen that they've lost their lives, and you've seen that they've lost their lives, and I hope, God willing, that there's no such thing -- if 28 people lose their lives...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0182par0197	A lot of people have been dead for five months, a lot of martyrs, and you've never had to worry about that! I'm so curious. Who's getting out?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0181par0198	...those who make a statement against this will be sentenced to death here because of their identity.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0183par0199	Are you inviting the terrorists to drop the weapons? Should they leave weapons or continue to kill civilians?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0181par0200	...those who cry for joy in death here, those who scream, they die. Those who say, "It's a good thing they're dead." Those who say, "Don't let the ambulance go, we don't want the ambulance to go."
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0183par0201	What's your message to those who continue to kill civilians?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0181par0202	I hope he's here, really, in those tank shots, under the ceilings, just as those people have lost their lives.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0184par0203	You're slandering me! No one ever said that here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0181par0204	And I can assure you that those people will have lost their lives there, their humanity.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0185par0205	Thankfully, we see very well what God-fearing, unmerciful people do, ma'am.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0181par0206	We say six people have died in eight days, and you're still sitting here answering us.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0186par0207	Of course we will. You're lying.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0185par0208	People will give you the best answer.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0181par0209	So that's it? When did we ever lose so much humanity? When did we become so blind here?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0186par0211	Don't rent your minds out!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0181par0212	When did our perceptions become so closed? We say that six of the 28 people lost their lives, we say that a 13-year-old child could die at any moment, and you're still sitting there saying things that don't fit into reason, logic, morality, conscience, just to answer. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is that how it is? What I'm saying here is, if you're that clear, I say let's get our ambulances out of here, and I say, come on, let's get the ambulances out of here! I say we don't want to hear the same thing every day.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0187par0216	Mr. Heroalp, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0181par0217	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0187par0219	On behalf of groups on Article 1, the second word on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group belongs to Aydın MP Hüseyin Yıldız. Mr. Star, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've had ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0188par0223	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, of course, our Minister of Tourism was here when I received this speech, so I did, but the Minister of Tourism is not here right now, and I'd like to ask our Customs Minister to hear about it. Dear friends, the world's tourist cake is $1 trillion. As Turkey, I'm afraid we're getting a 30-35 billion-dollar share of this cake. Sadly, Turkey is a country with four seasons, so we can skate on the other side as we go into the sea in the summer. But unfortunately, because of the way this power has been going for thirteen years -- I'm sorry to say -- the tourist cake is going down. Previously, 4.5 million Russian tourists arrived last year. You know, the Russian plane was shot down and Putin instructed the Foreign Minister and that 4.5 million people won't be coming here in the summer of 2016. Dear friends, a bomb went off behind him -- I'm sorry to say -- five German tourists were killed, and the second-largest tourists were killed by Germany; he also dropped 60, 70%. We have 2016. Why is tourism important, friends? $30, $35 billion comes from tourism and completes the external debt deficit. There are 1,400,000 people working on tourism with their flanks. 100,000 of them are students, college students, children of a poor family with no income. He works for four months, takes his money, goes back to college. Currently, 50 percent of hotels will not be opened in Antalya, Fethiye, Bodrum, Kuşadas, Didim, the fountain area. So since he's the Minister of Tourism here, I'm going to ask him, what kind of precautions are we going to take? Dear friends, I'm also on the Tourism Commission. As the Republican People's Party, we don't want to beat up the farmer, we want to eat grapes -- we have 2016 -- because we first call it Turkey, we think about the interests of the country. The next 2016 is now missing, so let's save at least 2017. Let's sit down, Republican People's Party... we have serious friends on the Tourism Commission, we have AKP MPs on that Commission, we've been seeing each other all the time.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0189par0228	I'm here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0188par0229	I'm seeing my teacher from Palandöken, Erzurum. Let him tell you, between last year and this year, tourism revenues are now down 50 percent, right, Hajji?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0189par0230	Right.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0188par0231	Now, what are we supposed to do, guys? One, Mr. Secretary, I hear he's going to pay a $6000 bonus for charter planes, he's going to contribute. Good, we have no objection. But the customer potential from the charter plane is coming into the system, including everything. A tourist who comes into the system, including everything, stays at the maximum of 14 days, spends 14 days of his money out of the system for about 100-150 or 200 euros. What's important is that we have to pay premiums for chartered planes, because the customer quality that comes on a scheduled plane doesn't cost much less than $10,000. So I'm asking the Minister of Tourism specifically at this time. I met with Minister of Transport Buli Bey last week, and I told him about these matters, and he said to me: "We discussed it at the Council of Ministers, Hüseyin Bey, but unfortunately I couldn't make that decision in the Council of Ministers. I'm sorry, a minister who couldn't convince his ministers. We're talking 35-40 billion dollars, we're talking about a sector where 1,400,000 people work, and I'm sorry to say, to pay $6000 for scheduled planes, I'm afraid, dear friends of the Council of Ministers who have not been able to convince them.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0190par0233	But there are 18,000 miles of roads.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0188par0234	Dear friends, I am speaking to the Minister of Tourism here: As soon as possible, we need to meet with lawmakers from the Tourism Commission in Antalya; we need to meet with hotel owners immediately; we need to do it in Turkey, we need to do it in İzmir, we need to do it in Aydın. We're going out, Germany, Holland...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0191par0235	We've already done it, we're doing workshops.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0188par0236	That's what you're saying, but we have a 70% cancellation from Germany right now, folks, 70 percent.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0191par0237	Where did you get the numbers, Congressman?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0188par0238	I get the numbers from tour operators every day. I'm sorry. I'm a hotel guy, and I'm a colleague of yours. I'm telling you the truth.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0191par0239	But I'm an Antalya MP. There's no 70% cancellation.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0188par0240	Congressman, Congressman, I'm not here to beat up the lace...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0192par0241	Let's not interfere, Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0188par0242	My problem is, how do we save 2016 with little damage, how do we save 2017?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0193par0243	Right.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0188par0244	As the main opposition, I'm speaking to you as an MP, I'm making mistakes in front of you, I'm correcting this. We say, "Let's not say anything else."
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0193par0245	Thank you, that's right.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0194par0246	It's beautiful, it's beautiful. Go ahead, Mr. Hussein.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0188par0247	Dear friends, you have passed the entire city law, and I'm sorry to say, you've also suffered mistakes in passing the entire city law, especially 40 percent of the city's municipal income has turned into major cities. I'll give you an example: I live in Didim, the tourism district, the population of 70 thousand; there are 500,000 in the summer, 500,000 in the summer! You give that county a share of the County Bank according to its population of 70,000 people, according to him, you give them employees, staff, but it serves 500,000 people in the summer, that mayor, 500,000 people. I'm asking you, when I put 200 kilos on you, 300 kilos on you, can you walk, can you serve? Dear friends, the coastal areas... you may have only punished the mayor of the Republican People's Party, but you have Antalya, Antalya.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0195par0249	There's no such thing. I don't accept it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0188par0250	I say: Kuşadası, Didim, Bodrum, Cesme; we have friends here who are mayors among the MPs, let them come, let them serve only one summer, let them see. I repeat: you cannot serve 500,000 or 1 million people with the capacity of your staff, with 70,000 people, with your share of 70 thousand people from the Bank of Provinces. I'm especially speaking to you: Come, let's change this law at this time, not according to the population rate, let's do it according to the water times, or let's give those counties a share of 1 million populations for six months in the summer. Otherwise, when a tourist doesn't like it, he doesn't come next year. Dear friends, right now there's a $1 trillion tourist cake in the world. We have to get at least 100 billion dollars out of this one trillion dollars, so let's go with the right policies. We're not here to fight. I came here to serve the people, dear friends, I promised him I'd come here. Let's all sit down. Let's go back to our mistakes. I address you as a member of the Republican People's Party, the main opposition. Let me know if I'm wrong here. We've got friends who've run for mayor among the MPs, and they know what the problem is. In the same way, the law of all the cities passed as the law of Melih Gökçek; you bound all the villages, you built the neighborhood. There are 496 villages in Aydın. It takes 100 miles to get from the center to the other village. I'm asking you: Can a car owner go to the center to change a contaminant, 10 liras on the conta, 250 lira on the bill he spends; can that be a law? Dear friends, you have also passed laws from city to city. You have applied this law differently in Antalya, in Denizli, in Aydın, in İzmir. You've given us 386 personnel from the private administration, the operator, the driver, but you've taken their machines, their grapefruits, their scoops, and you've given them directly to the highways; is that possible? If the private administration is closed, if you're going to hire them, you're going to have to give them all the stuff they use, the machine. For him, I carry the faith that we must bring this law to the House and restore it as soon as possible, dear friends. On this occasion, hopefully, I have the belief that 2016 will be a good year of tourism, but if we don't take precautions -- I repeat -- it will go down from $30 to $35 billion to $10-15 billion. That's not a plus, that's a negative. I give you all my love and respect, thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0196par0260	Mr. President, the valuable speaker has made criticisms and complaints about tourism, and we'll listen to them, of course. However, the EC has made an assessment that the PARTY has discriminated between municipalities on this issue.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0197par0261	Absolutely, Mr. Naci, that's exactly how it's done.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0196par0262	Ms. Gökcen has a minute to comment on the matter at her place.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0198par0263	Sir, let the government respond.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0196par0264	Government, power is the same thing, it doesn't exist. Ms. Gökcen, sir, will make a statement regarding this matter.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0199par0266	Mr. President, there can't be an answer to a criticism from the government. It's a very constructive...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0200par0267	Mr Enç, one moment, please, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0201par0270	Mr. President, thank you. As the speaker puts it, there is absolutely no situation. For one thing, for nearly three years, our Ministry of Tourism has been sending money to all municipalities to complete the infrastructure for tourism infrastructure, such as wastewater, to the municipality and the municipality, regardless of the political party's difference. But I can't say much about how this money is used. He's sent that money to every political party. Besides, discrimination is never, ever at stake. In this sense, there are municipalities in Antalya, which receive excellent support from the Ministry of Tourism or from relevant ministries. Another additional note: I agree with the deputy's part of the fall of reservations in tourism. However, it's not something that's come up this year in a whole process that's been going on for two years. There are cancellations as a result of the dissolution in Russia, plus the economic crisis in Germany. I mean, it's not directly related to Turkey's current situation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0202par0278	Talks on Article 1 have been completed. I submit the item to your votes:
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0203par0280	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0202par0281	We voted.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0203par0282	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0202par0283	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0203par0284	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0202par0285	Matter accepted. It happened after I took the vote.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0203par0287	What about the president...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0202par0288	I'm going to read Article 2: MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Yes, on the matter, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0204par0294	Don't start without me, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0202par0295	Come quickly, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0204par0297	Yes, dear friends, I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the General Assembly, I salute you. Now, we are pleased that Turkey, of course, has developed different trade agreements, different relations with different countries. The enrichment of this country will also please us to develop relations that will increase this country's rights, fair share, increase its resources. But, dear friends, now, before we get into this, I would have told him why we've been talking here for so long, and why we haven't heard anything in return. For days we have been describing that basement, and look, dear friends, in the description of that basement, the Faysal Yellow Star is there. We never said that. Faysal Sarıyıldız is somewhere near the municipality for the connection point, where he meets with government officials and communicates with them. When you look at the contact with the Minister of Health, the health worker who responded to the Minister of Health also confirms that Mr. Faysal Sarıyıldız says that there are about 20 injured there. Now, there's no need to distort it, there's no need to change it. Dear friends, look, we're talking about 22 people trapped in a basement, face-to-face with death. It's like a kerb in there right now. They haven't had a fluid in seven days, and we've heard today that we know that someone who has a bowel injury has also blacked out. Now, again, the AKP people are probably not getting any information from the government. The information we have in our negotiations with the government is very clear. Right now, our group has gone to the Ministry of Interior to meet with Mr. Home Secretary, the authorities. Several talks have been held before, and in the talks, they clearly say they cannot bring power to it, the Interior Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister. It's all right here. It's all right. The ambulance is on its way... and five minutes ago, the ambulance is on its way and it's back, dear friends, step by step, second by second.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0205par0302	Why did he come back? Why?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0204par0303	Because the official uniforms are firing.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0205par0304	Why did he come back?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0204par0305	I don't know, but we know the shooters were in uniform.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0206par0307	Come on!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0205par0308	Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0207par0309	Don't lie to me!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0205par0310	Demagoji, don't!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0208par0311	No YPG uniforms.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0209par0312	Dear friends, dear friends, listen, listen, take a look, let's talk. Mr. President, will you intervene?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0210par0314	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0209par0315	Look, guys, yesterday, a clerk here showed me a picture of a 13-year-old boy trapped in that basement. Do you know what a friend in the back of the AKP said? He said, "Why is he there?"
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0211par0316	You're making a live shield, human shield!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0209par0317	Dear friends, we've already been evacuating the districts of the AKP government, police Special Ops are announcing and evacuating the districts. When we say they're lying, you say they're lying. Then why is he there, that 13-year-old person? She's there because her house is there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0211par0318	You're making a live shield.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0212par0319	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0209par0320	He's there because his house is there, because he's a human being.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0213par0321	You're making a live shield.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0209par0322	Yes, you're right, you're calling for evacuation of every county and district in that area. Cizre is a district of 130,000 inhabitants. What good is it to evacuate a town of 130,000 people, and what does terrorism have to do with it? What is the reason for evacuating Şırnak, and what wisdom is it to empty Cleopatra?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0214par0323	So your people don't get hurt.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0213par0324	It's because of you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0214par0325	Because of terrorists, because of terrorists.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0215par0326	Dear friends, now I speak of Kerbala, of Kerbala, of Kerbala, of Kerbala!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0216par0327	Mr. Toğrul, they'll take the patients to safety.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0215par0328	If the Republic of Turkey hasn't been able to take 22 citizens from a basement 500m away for seven days, I'm telling you, it's either weak or the people who run Turkey have actually overlooked it themselves and actually transferred it to Special Operations police, private Gladio. They're handed over to private Gladio because they don't listen to the Home Secretary because they don't listen to the Deputy Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0217par0329	Rocket's exploding, rocket.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0215par0330	As for foreign policy, dear friends, in Turkey's policy in the Middle East, we see how weak we really are in Syrian policy. Turkey has ruined everything due to Kurdish anti-Kurdish policy and has left itself alone in the world. We've come, we've come, we've got zero neighbors. We have no relations with Syria, no relations with Iraq, no relations with Iran. The European Union is entitled. Right now, the European Court of Human Rights, not the Constitutional Court, is making a decision to take one of our wounded. This is an embarrassing situation for Turkey, my dear friends. Turkey shouldn't be in this situation. The fact that Turkey is in this situation, I'm telling you, it's making us very uncomfortable, too. Turkey should not be at odds with its citizens in its own country.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0218par0331	If you were uncomfortable, you would have said something to Kandil, to the terrorists.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0219par0332	Fighting Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0215par0333	Now, dear friends, let me tell you what we think of anti-Kurdishism. We are now trading $12 billion with the Iraqi Kurdistan Regional Administration, but look at the work of your anti-Kurdish policy. What does Mr. President say about the POD in Rojava, about the Rojava region? It says: "We don't allow an end like the one in Iraq. "
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0220par0334	He's right, President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0215par0335	So no matter what happens... what are you doing in Iraq, where you let something happen? You're exporting $12 billion. This country is getting rich, this country is producing resources and feeding them to its children. But what are you doing? Your anti-Kurdish policy alones you in the world, and today people are on the verge of suicide because they've been fired. The Antwerp MPs are here. Four days ago, did one worker in Antwerp commit suicide because he was laid off, or not, dear friends?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0221par0336	Mr. Mahmut, don't.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0215par0337	Did 35,000 or 40,000 workers have been removed in the organised industrial area alone in the last three and a half months or not? If our friends say they haven't been removed, then let them.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0221par0338	Mr. Mahmut, it's not removed, don't!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0215par0339	Now, dear friends, this much against the People of Antwerp...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0221par0340	So don't look at the empty side.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0215par0341	Behold, dear People of Antwerp, I speak to you from here, that no workers have been taken out of the Organized industrial area.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0221par0342	It hasn't been removed, yes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0215par0343	Let's get him on record. Dear friends, this country is our country. We can sit down and talk about whatever else we have, with Kurdish, Turkish, all our ethnic differences, all our religious differences.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0222par0345	With a gun?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0215par0346	There was a gun before.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0222par0347	You have to stand up to him first.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0215par0348	Why did you start the thing in 2013? We said, "This country needs to solve its problems at the table," and we said, "There's nothing wrong with it that can't be solved." But you're so caught up in the anti-Kurdish that you can't see anything else. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Dear friends, I'd like to make another point.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0223par0351	Tell me about the PKK!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0224par0352	We're against traitors!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0215par0353	The AKP and Mr. President... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. President, don't let them interfere with my right to speak.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0225par0356	Congressmans, please do not interfere and address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0215par0357	Mr. AKP people and the President say, "If what we say today is true, if we say it's true, let everyone say it's true. But when we say it's wrong, let everyone say it's wrong." We called Israel 'Israel the Killer.' 'No, we have business relations.' Today we make Israel a friend, and everyone says, "How do you think we're enemies, we have business relations, we're friends?" Dear friends, it's true. What you call it is not true.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0226par0359	So what you're saying is true, huh?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0215par0360	Look, you used Mr. Fethullah Gülen. You've run cases of Balyoz, Ergenekon, KCK, and now you're saying we've been tricked. So, yesterday, when we said that Fethullah Gulen was doing this, you were supporting Fethullah Gulen, but today, Fethullah Gülen...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0227par0361	You're dating!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0228par0362	You're taking care of it!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0229par0363	They vote for you, they vote for HDP, what else?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0230par0364	We say go after him with the law, and you say: "No, he is the enemy." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, dear friends, we all need law, if we need law today, you'll need it tomorrow.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0229par0367	You're the last people to talk about law!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0230par0368	Remember, everybody needs law.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0231par0370	I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0230par0371	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0231par0372	Those who don't agree... You asked after you took the vote.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0230par0374	Mayor, you didn't pass! That's not gonna happen, Mayor!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0231par0375	Matter accepted.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0230par0376	No, President, I don't accept! I've asked for the number of decisions, you haven't started yet!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0232par0377	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0231par0378	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0232par0379	Mr. President, the speaker has claimed that an anti-Kurdish policy prevails in Turkey. This is an unjust and unjust accusation. In this frame, I want words based on 69.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0231par0380	Mr. Bostanci, please, come in without a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0233par0382	There's no vote, I want enough to decide!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0232par0385	Mr. President, dear friends, Turkey has no anti-Kurdish policy, Mr. Togrul.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0233par0386	There is, there is, there is an example!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0232par0387	Open your eyes and you'll see this. Turkey has an anti-terrorism policy.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0233par0389	You cleared 130 grand of county for him!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0232par0390	Do not see terrorists and Kurds in the same pool. That would be a great injustice to the Kurds.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0234par0391	By God, you're doing it!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0232par0392	Look, the one sitting behind me is Kurd. Don't you consider him Kurd? There are Kurds sitting here, CHP, various parties. Don't you consider them Kurds?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0235par0393	President, they can be anything, they can't be one thing: Kurds.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0232par0394	Barzani, don't you consider the Kurds in northern Iraq to be Kurds?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0236par0395	Can a problem name the president with the letter "v"?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0232par0396	The PYD carried out Kurds in the area who did political cleansing and disobeyed them, creating a space with PKK's supporters Kurds. Don't you consider Kurds expelled, humiliated, insulted? Does a man have to be in your head to become a Kurdish?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0237par0398	Wherever in the world, it's against you. Look, I gave an example of the southern Kurdistan.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0232par0399	My dear friend, Turkey has an anti-terrorism policy. Terrorists who victimise Kurds in the East and the South, killing Kurds. Why did they move terror to cities, why? You know that best.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0238par0400	The AKP moved it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0239par0401	It's because of AKP politics.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0232par0402	Let people be victims, oppressed, hurt, and have a revolutionary situation removed from this place. No matter who takes responsibility for public relations, no matter where he stands in terror, we won't let that happen. Those who dug those holes will disappear into those pits. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0240par0405	Those who dug those pits have a responsibility, too.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0241par0409	There is no word on the third article. I submit Article 3 to your votes...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0242par0411	President, you didn't vote, I want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0241par0412	I'll call the number of decisions I need, okay, I'll call this time. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0242par0414	We're talking about the 2nd Amendment, Mayor, you're wrong... Article 2 of the First Amendment, Article 2 of the First Amendment.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0241par0415	Sir, we didn't get the third article read. First, I'm going to read the third article, and then I'm going to vote. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0243par0418	I spoke on the 2nd Amendment, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0241par0419	You asked for it after you voted, after you started voting. There is no word on the third article.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0243par0421	There is, there is, there is the President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0241par0422	I submit Article 3 to your votes...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0243par0423	There is, there is, there is the President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0241par0425	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor of matter... Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0243par0427	Friends, Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0241par0428	I'm going to take a ten-minute break from the merger because there's not enough decision-making during the third amendment vote.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0243par0429	Yes, sir...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0241par0430	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0243par0431	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit03spe0241par0432	You will request word on all articles. It's a break.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0241par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the previous session, the decision to vote on Article 3 of Bill 64 was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the item back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept Article 3... those who do not accept the article... are accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume the talks of Bill 64. The commission is here. The government is here. Now, the entire bill is subject to an open vote.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0244par0008	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0241par0009	I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0244par0010	I'd like to make a promise to show the color of my vote, if I may.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0241par0011	We've moved to a vote, and the next item...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0244par0012	I raised my hand, sir, I'm tracking it, it hasn't even started yet. If it's okay, there's no demand.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0245par0013	The last word is for the congressman.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0241par0014	Mr. Pitcher, in favor, against?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0244par0015	It's got... It doesn't matter, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0241par0017	Okay. In favor of the 86th Amendment, Mr. Aytuğ Thrower, here you go. You have five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0246par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I welcome three of our soldiers and two of our officers who have been killed in Sur. One of these martyrs is Captain Yiğitcan Çifa, from Mersin. Today he has embraced this child, not only in the earth, but also in his heart. Every day, we get martyr fire in our homeland, in many places. We wish these fires to end, we curse terror. We don't want anyone to die in combat. To tell you this, we've become truly ashamed of our humanity. Now everyone must understand that the only person responsible for this is the AKP, who can't run the country.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0247par0023	I mean, come on!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0246par0024	Now everyone has to understand. A government that hasn't ruled this country in 13 years is responsible for these martyrs, these deaths.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0248par0026	You got a speech on the international agreement, you got a say in the deal! Don't change the subject, please! Talk about it!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0246par0027	No one should ever forget that. We want a country just like Cahit Sitký..
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0249par0030	Congressmans, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0246par0031	We want no trouble at first, no longing at heart. We want no end to the brother fight. Dear friends, this agreement is an international agreement based on your trade with Peru. This agreement brings not only business, but the contractor you're an expert in, sir, business in many areas. Dear friends, Peru is a good country; Peru is a pleasant country with a population of nearly 30 million, so don't make any deals with Peru, Peru.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0250par0034	The CHP members also have signatures here, and we have even more valuable members of the CHP.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0246par0035	Think about it once more and decide what will happen if you all agree to make this agreement with Peru. Why am I saying this? Because according to your data, in our country, Turkey has started taking antidepressants out of every four people. It's not mine, it's yours, I'm just telling you again so your blessed ears can hear the numbers you've written.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0251par0036	I think you need it, too, so use it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0246par0037	26 million people are on antidepressants, 26 million people are on antidepressants because of you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0252par0038	Peruvians won't believe you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0253par0039	There's some of your contribution, and there's your contribution.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0254par0040	You use it, you need it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0255par0041	Congressman, it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0256par0042	Is it pinning on you?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0255par0043	I'm a physician, so use the antidepressants. It's not very, very good for a lady's MP.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0257par0044	You're telling everyone.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0255par0045	Look, I keep giving you your numbers, for God's sake, look again if you're going to make this deal with Peru. In my country, because of you, divorce rates have increased by 37.3%.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0258par0046	Peruvians don't believe it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0257par0047	Oh, for God's sake, what does it have to do with divorce?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0255par0048	In my country, because of you, violence has increased by 1,400 percent.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0259par0049	That happened because of you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0260par0050	This happened because of you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0255par0051	It didn't happen because of me, because I'm not in power, you're in power, and because of you, violence has increased by 1,400 percent.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0261par0052	If it's a natural disaster, you'll know it from us.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0262par0053	Just say no!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0255par0054	We have over 6 million unemployed, over 17 million poor people, for God's sake, decide whether you're in power or opposition. It's only up to you to be in power and to be victimized and to blame someone else.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0263par0055	They're from when you were in power.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0255par0056	Look, people with consumer credit or credit card debt...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0264par0057	Tell me the color of this game, the color of the game.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0255par0058	Do you know how much it adds up to? A number you'll never hear, 5.682%. Yeah, what kind of number is that? So look at the increase in debt, 5.682%. It'll look great on you. Don't kill Peru, don't tell Peru. Come on, even if you say yes, don't take what you've done here to Peru. Because of you, suicide rates have increased by 33 percent, drug addiction has increased by 678 percent, prostitution has reached incredible numbers, 790 percent. For God's sake, spare Peru. Good evening.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0265par0061	The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to request that members who can't get into the system ask the technical staff for help, but who can't get into the system, to deliver the ballots to the presidency within three minutes scheduled for the vote. In addition, there are the ministers who will vote as acting minister, who will vote as minister, who has the color of the vote and the name and name of the vote, and who will also have the signature of the vote, asking them to deliver it to the presidency within three minutes of the scheduled time for the vote, and I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, the draft of the Dair Law Bill on Agreement Between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Peru and the Economic and Trade Co-operation Agreement and Agreement on Agreement Agreement Approved by Agreement: ▪ Used Number of Votes : 213 [[x]] So the relevant bill is legalized. After that, we will begin negotiations with the European Council's Bill of Law and Foreign Affairs Report, which is ranked again, in the 2nd place, in accordance with the Law and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, in accordance with the Accord of the Convention on the Council of the Council of Europe, in connection with the Accords of Criminal Influences, Investigation, Investigation, Constigation, Construction and Terrorism. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 51 rows. The first word on the entire bill is from Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Akçay, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0266par0085	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your honorable committee. This bill includes the ratification of the Council of Europe's Convention on Acquired, Researched, Handheld, Permission and Finance of Terrorism, and an important contract. This contract was opened on 16 May 2005, with valuable MPs and Turkey signing this contract on 28 March 2007. How many years has it been? I say eight years, you say nine. So, why has he waited for eight years, this contract is coming to this day, and it's being discussed in the General Assembly?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0267par0088	Mr. President, quiet in the hall, quiet, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0268par0089	Congressmans, the speaker is speaking on the stand. Please, let's not ruin the heart's reputation.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0266par0090	Perhaps one of the most important international contracts we'll be interviewing today. The approval of a contract signed by Turkey in 2007 is only coming today. This signature is very important for the government to demonstrate its will to fight terrorism and criminal revenues, dear friends. In fact, the process of progress so far is a crystallizing, crystallizing approval that clears the understanding of power, government's anti-terrorism, because it's been eight years, nine years. It's a negligence, I'll make it clear, it's a negligence. This should have left in 2008 at the latest, and also, of course, according to Article 90 of the Constitution, the signatures are adopted only after it has been approved in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're talking about an international document, which has been repeatedly kidnapped from the public opinion and the agenda of the House. Now, we need to take a brief look at the Capitol adventure of this contract. First, it was presented to Parliament on July 7, 2008, and it was nullified before it even got out of the Foreign Affairs Commission. Secondly, on September 22, 2011, he came to Parliament again, and the Foreign Commission submitted the Commission report on October 7, 2011, the bill entered the General Assembly agenda, but this time withdrew from the agenda on March 28, 2013. Thirdly, 24 bills were resent on November 7, 2014, and the Foreign Commission submitted the Commission report on March 6, 2015, the bill entered the General Assembly agenda, but this time the bill failed again without meeting in the General Assembly. Now, the contract that came to parliament again on December 3, 2015, after the Foreign Commission submitted its report on January 7, 2016, the Commission report was printed in 51 rows, and finally came to the General Assembly agenda today. The General Assembly came to the agenda of the General Assembly 3,230 days after the signing of a contract related to the Acquired, Investigation, Confiscation, Co-operation, Finance of Terrorism. After this long and roundabout journey of the contract, we are now approaching the final stop. I call it roundabout because he came to the House twice in the 24th term, was taken back in one, and the other was nullified. So, what makes the contract so different? As the Republic of Turkey, we will fight in international cooperation with the laundering of criminal revenues and financing of terrorism. He said with this signature, Turkey, but why is it eight years late? It is the AKP's government that has signed this contract that has brought it to Parliament, and the AKP's government that has withdrawn it from parliament. Dear MPs, what the Justice and Development Party has said is that it even considers drinking hemlock poison, there are promising developments. We've been living together since 1 August 2009. We have seen Oslo; we have seen the accounts of the Imran; we have seen the abomination of Habur; we have seen the letters of the murderer of Imran read in the meetings; then we have seen the agreement of Dolmabahçe. By the way, no sound or breath from the Court of Justice and Development regarding these Imran reports... but if we remain silent for a few more days, we will now rule the truth of those who have been declared to be a prisoner. So we saw these, but the only thing we didn't see was the fight against terrorism. We never saw the war on terror because it didn't exist. And the terrorists' finances weren't fought, so here's the trick. Why? The digging of the pits they call the Ditch has also been ignored by terrorist organizations to collect and provide money, just as ammunition, weapons, explosives have been stored and set up. No, we didn't, we fought. If you say that, then -- 2007 -- the government must explain from the date you signed this contract to this day. In cities, terrorist organizations everywhere provide almost public financing, extortion. They've even created what they call a tax office, which is written down, but it's been watched for a long time, and we haven't seen any steps. No one knows what the CID did. There was no fight against terrorism, but there was a way to negotiate, and funding was not fought. Unless the financial resources of these terrorist organisations are blocked, you will not be able to fight effective terrorist organizations. I'd like to read a very brief chapter on the basis of this bill we discussed, dear friends: "Turkey, head of the countries that have suffered the most damage from terrorism, believes that governments must take the necessary measures to prevent and eliminate terrorism and that cooperation should be made on a national, regional and international level in the fight against terrorism, and who is saying that? The government. Isn't that an innocent expression? Isn't it wonderful how Turkey is willing to cooperate internationally in the fight against terrorism? But it's not. It's been eight years. Now, dear friends, in this period, the rise in terrorist attacks after June 7, 2015 is remarkable. When the AKP took power, terror was at zero. However, President Erdoğan and AKP have brought an understanding that prefers to negotiate rather than fight terrorism, and since 2009, they have constantly changed the name to justify this process in our nation's favor, and on 12 August 2015, Mr. Erdoğan is asked to create an air that will no longer be passed on by the state or by the government -- of course -- which should not be explained -- because everything that needs to be done has been done -- as if terrorism was being fought on the one side. Chaos, terrorism, and witnesses continue to continue as AKP's people stall the public. On the one hand, Turkey is the first target of many terrorist organizations, while fighting the separatist terrorist organization as part of an international network. In recent years, however, the government has also been made a target in international public with covert or open support for some international terrorist organisations. We need to embody and refresh memories with an example. Yasin Al Qaedi was a Saudi businessman who was subjected to sanctions by the United Nations, the United States and the European Union because of their financial relationship with other terrorist organizations. I am as sure as I am of President Erdogan Mr. Yasin Bey, who has been branded by the international public as a terrorist. It is not possible for Yasin Bey to have a relationship with a terrorist organization or to support it. No one knows that. Because of this example, Turkey has been asked to become the country that supports terrorism in the international community -- almost -- to create that perception. For example, the Financial Action Task Force, which operates within the Economic Co-operation and Development Agency, is listed on the dark gray list for money laundering and financing terrorism. This list includes Syria, Algeria, Ethiopia, Ecuador, Indonesia, Myanmar, Pakistan and Yemen. One of the top steps on this list is the blacklist. The countries on the blacklist are Iran and North Korea. Turkey is in danger of even falling to the blacklist because it does not fight money laundering and terrorism financing. The Financial Action Task Force has even made a statement that on October 19, 2012, Turkey could be blacklisted. We consider the contract we discussed today important to our country's international reputation. We also want to state that we consider the fact that the contract has not been approved to date to be a major flaw and a big mistake. As a result, we are deeply concerned about the ratification of the contract and its implementation as it should be. I want to reiterate that the fight against terrorism is a total struggle, and the most important part of this struggle is the fight against the financing of terrorism. By hiding behind the opening process, we pay heavy prices every day for what they have not done so far. The most important aspect of fighting terrorism is the will to fight terrorism, the strong will. It is also important that this contract is discussed in order to show this will. But we can't help but ask: Will the solution process be removed from the refrigerator and completely destroyed? Will the talks with Ocalan continue, as some AKP MPs say? Answers to these questions will also be a clue to the sincerity and will of the fight against terrorism. My speech ends here, and I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0269par0106	The second word for the groups is Idris Baluken on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. Mr. Baluken, please. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0270par0110	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, we've tried to address your conscience, your heart, your humanity, your mind over and over again, while mankind was being brutally slaughtered in a basement of savagery in Cizre. I'm certainly not going to address any of these features that I'm talking about today, because we've tested them countless times in seven days, and unfortunately, step by step, I'm only doing it to make a note of the time when the rights of the 28 citizens who were there, one step at a time, they're going to die. And one day, when our children open the minutes of Congress and look at what happened in the basement of the violence in Cizre, I'm giving this speech to explain what happened when they looked into it. For the past seven days, 28 wounded citizens have been transferred to a hospital and sent to die step by step in an environment where they expect to provide rights to live and health. So far, we've had information that six of our citizens have lost their lives. We had information that 22 citizens could still be saved wounded. However, just before I went into this conversation, our party councilman, who called me from the basement of the savagery, said that the building was now hit by mortars, that they were completely smoked on the floor where the wounded were found, and that they didn't hear anything but a few others. I hope and hope that the possibility that I can think of as a physician does not occur, that the deaths you sent to Suruç, Diyarbakır, Ankara, where the ambulance should have been sent were not killed at this time in the basement of the savagery in Cizre. In a full week, this state and this government have not been able to move 28 wounded from a house in Cizre to Cizre State Hospital. Despite the European Court of Human Rights rulings, Turkey, despite the high sensitivity of public and public opinion to remove the human shame on this issue, unfortunately, the government and state have been openly responsible for the crime in which humanity died. The bottom of this is clear: the responsibility for the deaths of every citizen in this country is in the government, but the number of those 28 citizens -- the number of people who have died now -- is 6, but not only the responsibility of every citizen who has lost his life along with possible different developments -- but the perpetrator is clearly the AKP government. We've had numerous negotiations during this time. We had hours of talks with the Home Secretary with the top officials of the Interior Ministry. With the Prime Minister's information, the Home Secretary has been transmitting to us. After the public pressure, the government wants to take the wounded there as soon as possible. We want to send the bodies to the hospital. He passed on his knowledge and will. Prime Minister Davutoglu stated that he had instructed him to do so. In accordance with this directive, we told our friends in Cizre that the mothers and all the people of Turkey who were waiting for their children to be rescued would have such progress and that the positive results would come out at any time, that ambulances would be sent there. But unfortunately, in this process, every attempt to send an ambulance to the basement of this savagery in Cizre, so that there would not be the slightest inconvenience in the process of time, so that there would not be the slightest inconvenience between the interior ministry and the top officials, unfortunately, has been blocked by some artificial, artificial, artificial conflict mechanisms. We had the paramedics go in there to pick up the wounded, put the phone on speakerphone, put the whole process on tape, and played it to the ministry's authorities. Those who prevented that health intervention at the checkpoints said we don't know the Minister, the Prime Minister of this country, and the highest officials of the Interior Ministry who listened to that process with us heard it with their own ears and witnessed it. After hours of phone calls with each of those checkpoints, when they went within 150 metres of the basement where the wounded were, they turned them back again -- fully planned -- in a unilateral way -- to create a unilateral fire, a unilateral conflict atmosphere. And while all this was going on, the saddest thing is that the top officials of the Ministry of Interior have seen our initiative, and we can't get through it. Prime Minister Davutoglu's instructions remained in the air. For the past two days, Prime Minister Davutoglu's wounded and funerals must be removed immediately and sent to the hospital. Since the state in Ankara and the state in Cizre disagreed, the initiative of the state in Cizre has no longer exceeded the current state and AKP government, those wounded and bodies were not taken.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0271par0116	There's no such thing. Lies, all lies!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0270par0117	If it weren't for that, the Prime Minister's orders would have been carried out. Even in his statement yesterday...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0271par0118	Our prime minister and our Home Secretary and all of our party's spokesman said that everything you said was a lie.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0270par0119	You're not following.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0272par0120	Let's not interfere, fellas. Please, Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0270par0122	Look, even yesterday, he said to the public that whatever their identity was, their responsibility was to get them to the hospital as soon as possible, and after the necessary intervention, forensic investigations would take place later, he told the press. Let's say if you don't trust what we say, open up the newspapers you trust, read the statement Prime Minister Davutoglu made about it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0273par0123	The ambulances are waiting there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0270par0124	So, unfortunately, you've been faced with a state of failure here that clearly and clearly you've handed over Kurdish provinces to a war device that you've completely transferred to. I hope those 22 citizens who are fighting for their lives right now don't lose their lives. I hope that basement ceiling that's about to collapse doesn't collapse on those people, the wounded people. And believe me, if that ceiling falls on these wounded people, these people who need help, the victims, underneath that, you will remain both government members and members of this group, unfortunately, in the face of history. Under the great shame of humanity, each of you will be made a note of your insensitivity, contributing to history. In all the wars in the world, even in the war between the two states, opening a corridor of life, a human corridor, is a matter in which states of war guarantee international contracts and their own legal laws. Imagine that you do not accept that there is a war in Cizre, that you insist there is a fight against terrorism in Cizre, but for seven days you cannot open a corridor of life between the busiest main street of Cizre and a house 400 meters away. You're not opening a human corridor. For seven days, there was not a single food, not a drop of water, not a single medicine. As a physician, they don't need to be injured to get those people killed; 6 ▪ has already bled to death, but for seven days there, people who need a drop of water, all their functions, including kidney functions, are already rapidly going to bankruptcy. Each one of them is waiting for the moment when they're going to give their last breath without a care in the end. Velev, you didn't take those people out of there, you didn't show any human sensibility at the point of getting them to the hospital, at least in those seven days, you could have sent the most basic human materials, including water and medicine, but you didn't, and unfortunately, six of our citizens lost their lives because you didn't. In the last two days, two of our citizens have died while we were interviewing the Ministry of Interior officials. We had to report the death during our meeting at the time to find out the consequences of the situation. We're dealing with a situation that's so heavy, so violent. One step at a time, not the people in Cizre, but how this country's humanity was crushed, how it was destroyed in public.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0273par0126	Unfortunately... Unfortunately, we see it, even here we witness it. Even in this House, we are witnessing the loss of that human being.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0270par0127	Correspondences...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0273par0128	We're witnessing that conscience go missing.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0274par0129	Mr. Pine, please... Let's not interfere... Let's not interfere...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0273par0130	You show up, we see that conscience disappear.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0274par0131	Please, Mr. Bauken, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0275par0132	I have stated that I did not make this speech to convince any of you or to address the conscience of any of you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0273par0133	Neither do we. It's written on a tablet.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0275par0134	And what you're saying now is going on the record.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0273par0135	Before those reports, the crowbar is written in ruins.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0276par0136	Just hear me out! Listen!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0277par0137	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0273par0138	They'll all be in the Hereafter, and if they're not here, they'll be in the Hereafter.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0277par0139	Yeah, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0278par0140	I hope, one day, when you look back, you won't be ashamed of the words you used here, that's all I'll say for you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0273par0141	And I'm returning it for you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0277par0142	Mr. President, why aren't you interfering?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0278par0143	Because step by step, we are experiencing a process of violence, a process of death that has not been seen in the history of mankind, whose consciences, the conscience of mankind, the conscience of mankind. So, valuable lawmakers, the results of this process so far, unfortunately, have increased all the concerns about this country's democratic future to an extent that we can't imagine, each of us needs to increase. To put this approach between our people, to allow Kurdish mothers to step by step to death in the municipal corridors of Cizre for seven days, to consider the sensitivity we showed to all the cry for help there just to speak from the stand to the MP, to address the witness, I think you will have no initiative at the point of collecting this landscape. A big break between our peoples, a big emotional break, and a mental break, unfortunately, with these practices, you continue to weave one step at a time.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0279par0145	There's a major conflict with terrorism, terrorism.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0280par0146	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0278par0147	Again, in the same way, the government and the state of the Kurdish provinces should be in a position to be unable to control the war device I mentioned, and it should raise different concerns in each of you in terms of Turkey's democracy. And believe me when every one of you realizes how that sense of custody, which you proudly expressed as being eliminated, is actually going to be too late today on the streets of Cizre, on the streets of Şırnak, Sur, and on the streets of this country, one step at a time about the democratic future of this country.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0279par0148	The agony of custody is on the streets of Cizre.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0278par0149	And I'm afraid you won't find it in front of you to talk like that. To sum up, I would like to say once again that all 28 of these citizens have the right to live, especially the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Health, the responsibility of the National Ministry of Defence, the Chief of Staff and this government, which is responsible for the operational process in that area. We'll go public with all the details of our talks on the rescue of those people. But we still don't want to give up on the efforts and hope that those people can be saved. Thus, in the coming days, if negative results do not arise, our efforts as the People's Democratic Party will continue the same way until the very end. Look, with the debates here in the House for seven days with such an agenda, there's a burning process going on somewhere in the country that's bleeding our consciences, while you've closed this House today with the suggestion of the group that you've brought in, you've also established how close and far this House is to the public's agenda, the agenda of this country. Every day in this country, soldiers, civilians, guerrillas, young, old, women, children's funerals, taking this House on vacation for a week, to be clear, is a public defunctioning of Parliament. The moment you defunction the parliament, the moment you reveal that Parliament has been removed from the public agenda, the moment you look into the eyes of all the public, unfortunately, you have destroyed the faith in democratic politics and its power of solution with your own hands. The current position on this issue is clear, but I especially want to address the CHP Group: After June 7th, this Parliament, the palace and AKP were consciously disabled, the actual lock was locked on its door, and for 37 days, a diversion was carried out in the name of CHP's non-responsibility. If the CHP had requested it, it would have made it very clear that the 37-day process with its 110 MPs would have been available to the public and the peoples of Turkey, keeping it open every day. There'll be a test like this in front of you next week. We believe that 110 lawmakers cannot close this Assembly, that this Assembly cannot turn its back on the agenda of the country that is full of blood; that parliament must prove that it cannot leave its people's true agenda behind, and that the conscientious MPs in the Republican People's Party in particular should start an initiative for all those in favor of democracy in this country. No one gets away with the crimes they've committed, that's how history puts it. A government may want a war solution, it's normal; here, it may want to continue until it kills the last warrior of the power it fights; it's normal; we don't approve; but Velev has made such a decision, it's normal, but every war has a moral and law. No government and no state has the freedom to commit crimes against humanity in order to eliminate the laws of war and the morality of war. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm saying that even if it's in that kind of practice, human beings are bound to answer to that historical government and to that government.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0281par0157	We're fighting terrorism, to save the Kurdish people in the first place.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0278par0158	I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0282par0160	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0283par0161	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0282par0162	Sir, Mr. President, I'd like to make a promise to make an assessment of what Mr. Idris Bauken means to our party. In their statements, they said that the Republican People's Party was responsible for the process after June 7th.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0283par0164	Here you go, two minutes, without a second pick-me-up, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0282par0168	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're going through a very critical process. We all agree that this process is responsible for all of us. We, the Republican People's Party, have always distanced ourselves from terrorism, very clearly, but without it. We don't accept ditch politics, barricade politics. Every terrorist act against innocent people, whether it's the PKK, DHKP-C, ISIS, whoever it is, we declare them all terrorists. In this regard, the Republican People's Party is very clear, very clear, and everyone needs to be in the same clarity. On the other hand, it is responsible for today's events when the government screws up what it calls the solution process, becomes committed to commitments it cannot give, remains silent in the east and the southeast. Now, I find it very serious what Mr. Idris Baluken, Vice President of the HDP Group, has said, without being bullied, that there is a struggle for life. On the one hand, I find it very serious that the state is expressing what ministers or AKP spokesman are saying, there are allegations that a gun was fired by terrorists on the way to pick up the wounded. Now, there's only one way to solve this, and I'm betting on it, dear friends. All people's lives are important. The state can only arrest and detain anyone by continuing to live within legitimate limits. Mr. Baluken, I'm ready; if the AKP group's deputy is ready, if the other parties' members of the group are ready, let's all go to Cizre, let's all decide what's going on there, and I'm here with this heart. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In these initiatives, as Deputy Group Chairman of the Republican People's Party, I say I am prepared to go to Cizre at this hour, to go with you, with my AKP friends, with all my friends, and to identify the problem there, and to tell the truth to the public. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0284par0175	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0285par0176	Mr. Can...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0284par0177	Mr. President, Mr. Baluken mentioned in his speech that the AKP was responsible for the deaths. There are a lot of other reasons, and I want to talk to you about teasing for those reasons.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0285par0178	Two minutes, please, without further ado...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0284par0181	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Especially when I'm starting my words... no one should justify terrorism under this roof for any reason, not make terrorists innocent, not the terrorists' advocate, not his lawyer. All of us, as political party groups and representatives, are going to this nation, asking for votes from the nation. In order to raise the welfare level of the nation, to ensure the safety of the nation, we strive to get the nation to the level of troubled civilization one step further, and we collect our wages from the taxes that the nation has given us. But here, with the taxes we've been paid by the nation and under the sacred roof of the Republic of Turkey, our national security forces will be recognized, and... betting that their goal is to ensure the peace and security of the people there, it can't be that we just split the apple in half and never see the other size of the apple. If there's any intimacy, we need to see the whole picture. I'm Kırıkkale MP. The cleftkale is at the top of the cities that give the most martyrs compared to its population. If we can't internalize the innocent tears of those martyrs' families, if we're pushing this side aside, we can't talk about intimacy here. Every day here, we're tempted to represent terrorists, terrorists, by international contract or by some other law! That's enough, that's enough! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I especially want to say that if there's going to be an honest inquiry, we're going to have to look at the whole picture, the other half of the apple. That goes for us, and that goes for you. But in particular, I think we should stick to the taxes we received from the nation and the oath we made here on behalf of the nation. I don't want to talk about any more things. In the international contract, I think we should address the content of the subject, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0286par0187	Bravo, Mr. Ramadan.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0287par0188	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0288par0189	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0287par0190	In Hatibi's speech, he accused our party of being the lawyer for terrorism...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0289par0191	Aren't you or aren't you?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0288par0192	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0287par0193	Osman will speak to the president.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0288par0194	Two minutes, Mr. Baydemir. Please, let's not afford another tease. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0290par0198	Mr. President, I have made a promise once again for the record. There is no doubt that death is painful, and no one is bored with it, and the death it creates is a great pain, a great trauma. In our hearts, we feel the pain of every mother's child that falls to the ground in this country's geography.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0291par0200	If you felt it, you'd have them put down the guns.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0292par0201	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0290par0202	The other thing is, there's something more painful than death, which is that killing is carried out by monstrous emotions.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0293par0203	Yeah, it's like Yasin Bör, isn't it, Yasin Bör? Osman Bey, Yasin Börü and 5 of his friends... his head was crushed, his head crushed with stone.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0290par0204	Look, six of the 28 people who are currently under the basement in Cizre were killed in a loss of blood. At present, two people have lost consciousness for seven days of not taking a drop of water and moaning, saying, "water, water, water." 22 people are facing death right now.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0294par0205	Did you go there, too?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0295par0206	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0290par0207	I'm not saying this to your conscience, but I've given up on your conscience. The war kills the truth, and the truth dies, which is when the objections come out. Just as Mr. Sky puts it, we have our heads on top of our eyes, one of our group presidents, you, those of you with hearts, let's join hands, let's see what's in that basement. Let's get those people out of the basement. If there's a criminal, there's a judgment in this country. All right, let's get him out, bring him in, get him to the hospital, get him to the doctor first.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0296par0208	You won't be able to use them to your games. It's over.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0290par0209	Whatever happens next will be done, but bear in mind that what is being done now is a persecution beyond the coup d'état of September 12th. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The coup of September 12th was one of the reasons that caused this rebellion, and in these six months, we have created enough anger in the conscience, in the heart of the Kurdish people.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0297par0213	Not the Kurdish people, the terrorists!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0298par0214	Mr. Baydemir, your time is up. The third word for the groups is Eskişehir MP Cemal Okan Yüksel on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Yüksel, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've been on for 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0299par0222	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The day goes by so we don't wake up to the news of the martyrs. Today, now, just now, while we were in session, we received another news of a martyr. May God have mercy on all our martyrs, and my condolences to their grieving families. This morning, at the age of 28, the deceased, High Sergeant Yusuf Haldun Küldü who died in the prime of his life, is the martyr of our Eskişehir, his mercy and his condolences to his family. When I was listening to Mr. Hatip İdris Bauken, who had just spoken, I was deeply grieved. I intended to make sure that what you said wasn't true, that it was an assumption. Congressmans, those who are in that basement are life, and those who are in them -- as you say -- terrorists.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0300par0226	Aren't you?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0299par0227	Our very powerful army, the army that was mobilized to pick up a chest from Solomon's Shah Temple and bring it here, is it too weak in a town, in an alley, in a basement, to get people out of there, or are there other accounts, other plans behind it?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0301par0228	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0299par0229	Look, a person's life is very important. Let 550 of us sacrifice the power of the legislature to one person. But if there's a terrorist there, a powerful government, a powerful army does this: you go, you take, you treat, then you judge, you punish.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0302par0230	It's compassion, mercy, mercy, mercy, so there's no loss of life.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0299par0231	No, sir, my dear Regent, this is not mercy. Velev is compassion, the state needs mercy.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0303par0233	Why won't he turn himself in?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0304par0234	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0299par0235	Now, I'm not going to dwell on that. Look, the Republican People's Party is not on the side of the HDP, nor is it on the side of the AKP.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0303par0236	You're right next to HDP, right next to HDP. You've even become HDP's envoy.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0299par0237	I speak frankly: May God punish the PKK, and may God punish the terrorists, but may God punish the one who mauls them.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0305par0239	Amen, amen! Amen to that!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0299par0240	Now, I'm done with this.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0306par0241	Congressmans, I beg you, do not interfere with the court.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0299par0242	Now, as he is doing now, Mr. President has repeatedly warned the speakers on the stand not to use a rude and hurtful tone. Indeed, His is the right and the right. Now, I'm going to list the statements made by one of our MPs and one of our special deputies at various sessions, and I've found some of the transcripts. I think these words that were appropriate to be used in a workshop were said under this roof, said by a special MP. What did he say? What's that got to do with it? For God's sake! You've all heard it!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0307par0243	So what?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0308par0244	Okay, what's in it?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0309par0245	He didn't grow up in the living room.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0310par0246	Now, this MP doesn't sit in the MHP desks, this MP doesn't sit in the HDP desks, nor does he sit in the CHP desks, nor does he sit in the AKP desks. This MP is sitting behind me.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0311par0247	Nice to meet you. I know.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0310par0248	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0311par0249	I wish you'd read the statements used by all the other lawmakers in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0310par0250	Mr. President, please don't interrupt me, I'll invite you to speak in a clean language, as you have done.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0311par0251	You know your position. You're not the President, you're a preacher on the stand, the President will enforce it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0310par0252	Dear President, I'm a member of parliament for the Turkish people's representation, and I speak on their behalf. I invite you to speak in a clean language, as you do.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0312par0253	Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0310par0254	Not only that, the Speaker has to be neutral. He has to conduct these sessions fairly and democratically, but as you, us, and those who watch the screens at the beginning of it, unfortunately, he can't lead this House in a fair manner.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0313par0255	The people on the screen see everyone, they see you. They give you your note, they give you yours.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0310par0256	Ma'am, if you're so eager, come and talk here. That's not your style.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0313par0257	I'll talk there, I'll talk here, don't worry, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0310par0258	We're the president's...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0314par0259	Congressmans, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0310par0260	...we also know the days when Mr. Bashir, who did not want to speak in previous sessions, for example, made a promise that he would not turn there and taunt him.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0315par0261	Come on, come on, come on!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0310par0262	We also know that even though Mr. President is neutral, he speaks on behalf of the political party as if he were part of a political party here. I really consider it a misfortune. Mr. President, the current President tells academics, judges, take off their robes, come, enter politics. And I'd like to invite you to take off your robe, tie, and sit in these seats, if you've missed your days as former group vice president. If you don't agree, please run the House like the previous presidents.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0316par0265	Congressmans, please do not interfere.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0310par0266	But when I wasn't a congressman, I remember a speech the President had at the time from this stand.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0317par0267	Yeah, what's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0316par0268	Now, Mr. Orator, look, if you want me to apply the Civil Code, there are a lot of articles in the Civil Code that require me to interrupt and invite you to the issue right now, but I'm being broad. Please don't...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0310par0269	Mr. President, if I use a rude and hurtful language, you can interrupt me.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0316par0270	Not only that, there are other provisions. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0318par0272	Then get to the point.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0316par0273	Don't interfere, Councillors, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0318par0274	What do you mean, don't interfere? Then get to the point, talk about it, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0319par0276	Call the General Assembly!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0320par0277	Now, the speaker is going to address the General Assembly there, and he needs to stick to the point.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0321par0278	I don't think there's anything left to talk about. You're rolling. If so, speak up and we'll listen. Don't keep us busy. Speak up on the stand if you have anything to say. If you don't have a say in this, you can't go out of your way to address the President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0322par0279	Mr. Cahit, if you're so curious, you'll come and talk here, but when you talk here, you'll have to lick your spit again and apologize. Yes, sir, now, Mr. Bostanci...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0323par0281	Now, look, Mr. Orator, you don't have to deal with individual names, personalities, you need to address the General Assembly. You can't go from the president to the Regents with one name at a time and deal with the person. Please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0324par0282	Mr. Sky, please step in.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0325par0283	Mr. Cemal, if you'd like to address the General Assembly...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0326par0284	There's nothing left to talk about.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0327par0285	My dear President, if you'd listened to me until the end, you'd understand why I'm addressing Mr. Bostanci. Please don't interrupt me, let me finish. Mr. Bostanci, in a previous session, some of our fellow lawmakers love to quote some of our ministers, referring to my speech on December 17th. I recommend to them that it's more acceptable -- you probably didn't use that word -- that they should quote other AKP people. I suppose Mr. Metin Ashunk, who I quote at the time, Mr. Atalay is not well-appreciated AKP. So, let's see, who's good for you? Perhaps the most acceptable is Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0328par0287	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0327par0288	I'll take your advice. I'm going to say your experience in politics and your rank as vice president of the group.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0329par0289	Mr. Sky, look, it's not going, it's not going, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0327par0290	I'm going to quote Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The year is 1994, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is running for mayor...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0330par0291	Twenty-two years have passed.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0327par0292	And he says: "I have nothing but this ring on my finger." I left with this.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0330par0293	No, no, it's not like that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0327par0294	Well, good, good. In 1999...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0330par0295	It's not like that! It's not like that, it's not true!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0327par0296	...again, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan says that if you hear one day that Recep Tayyip Erdogan has become very rich, he has been deprived. I didn't say that. Now, according to rumors and Wikileaks documents, since the Queen of England has left the Prince of Monaco behind as a fortune and become one of the richest leaders...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0330par0298	Look, all these lawsuits are over. You're not telling the truth!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0327par0299	Now I'm asking Mr. Bostanci...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0330par0300	You're not telling the truth!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0327par0301	I'm asking, I'm not accusing.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0330par0302	Retribution cases on all of them...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0327par0303	I'm asking, Mr. Bostanci...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0330par0304	You're not telling the truth. All the journalists who wrote these were sentenced to compensation.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0327par0305	Mr. Bostancı, did Recep Tayyip Erdogan lie at that time, or did he eat unlawfully from today's wealth? Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0330par0308	You're speaking unrealisticly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0331par0309	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0332par0310	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0331par0311	My Makbul AK PARTY is also one of the...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0333par0312	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0332par0313	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one moment...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0331par0314	Also quote the people of Makbul AK PARTI. There was no sentence.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0334par0315	Isn't that what you said?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0335par0316	Mr. President, I'd like word on Article 60.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0336par0317	Mr. Group Vice President speaking. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0337par0319	He made an assessment in a context that I didn't mean; it's clearly a taunt.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0336par0320	Here you go, Mr. Botanci. Please, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0338par0322	Showman, showman! He doesn't know what he's talking about.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0339par0325	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have not made an assessment that might mean anything, as I did not make sense of it. But of course, if you're standing in a sworn opposition position and you're playing mind games to translate what you're told according to your position, you take the words and twist them, like your friend did. What I'm saying is, if you want to understand what this party is saying about the AK PARTY, there are a lot of various statements, look at all of them. That's what I'm saying. Everyone knows I'm saying this, but the friend insists on understanding it in a specific way; I understand, from his position. He just said a very unfortunate thing here, so I said it to Levent Bey. The conversation that Mr. Cahit had here, unfortunately, has led to understanding beyond the mean... we've sat down with the CHP's friends, we've talked, and it's a virtue when it's time to apologize. Of course, Mr. Cahit didn't mean to accuse people while they were talking here, it wasn't to blame the opposition parties here, but to apologize for the way they understood it, for the way they understood it. Now, if you say that you suck it up, then one, no one apologizes; that's a very wrong thing, people from these platforms sometimes make promises that will cause misunderstandings; two, a CHP fellow from there with Cahit Bey apologized, and they say, "Did he also spit?"
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0340par0327	You didn't answer my question.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0339par0328	This approach is not a good thing. As for Mr. Recep, it's based on such rumors about Mr. President and all that, in the form of questions, it's not appropriate. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit04spe0341par0332	I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0341par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks with Bill 51. Government? Here. Commission? Here. In the previous session, the talks were completed on behalf of groups on the whole bill 51 rows. Now, I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... Those who don't agree... Sustained. THE ACTIVITY OF CRIMINALS, RESEARCHING, CONTINUE, CONTROL, PRODUCTION OF THE LAWYER AND THE FINANS OF MY TEROMISM MADDE 1- (1) In the name of the Republic of Turkey signed on March 28, 2007 in Strasbourg, the declarations and reservations of the Council of Europe's Convention on the Financing of Co-operation and Terrorism have been approved. On the 1st article, Van MP Tuğba Hezer Özturk on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0342par0016	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, yes, the international contracts we make to look cute when our country has such a painful problem are much brighter than we are, in fact, debated. And before we get to what I'm going to talk about, this is the last thing I want to say about the ambulance we've been talking about for days, at least for myself: we've been trying to address your conscience and your human perspectives for days. But there is one reality that we need to know that the Parliament that we're in now is a Parliament that has come together with a result of being a law state rather than a human and conscientious state. Thus, it is necessary to ensure that law enforcement and control activities are carried out in the most appropriate manner, and if that is not protected while we advocate the protection of the right to live with the laws we impose in law enforcement activities, then again, Parliament must demonstrate its control activity. In fact, that's basically what we expect from this Parliament. So it is the implementation of the law, which is the necessity of the legal state, to be questioned and resolved why it is not implemented if it is not implemented. And we, as the HDP Group, or as other opposition parties, are going out here to voice our criticism, our objections. And your approach is as if everything in Turkey is rosy and there's nothing missing, but we're just being critical as if there's nothing else. I wish there was something like that, and we wouldn't object to all the situations that exist. All freedoms of expression, freedom of the press, unfortunately, are now being eliminated, and we're left with whatever we're dealing with. And as a result of that, there is a terrible war reality that we are facing right now, unfortunately. Yes, you may not accept it, you may say it's not war. But no one, no person, no party, can explain the bombing of a city with thousands of soldiers, with a tank, with a cannon, we need to see it in another way. In fact, as we look at how we came to this situation, we decided to enter the election as a party on June 7th as the HDP, and we said: "We will break down the dam established by the fascist coup constitution and run a democratic policy in parliament and keep our promises on behalf of the people of Turkey. This is our argument, our statement, and this is what we stand behind." However, the ruling AKP, which has been in power for thirteen years, has, of course, refused to accept it under its own circumstances. An election campaign was carried out, as a result, the HDP breached the dam and the AKP failed to rule. Now, why fight a war when the HDP is already over the dam and prepares to conduct democratic politics with its current position, with the number of MPs; on the other hand, a party that has lost power for 13 years or lost power? And from that day forward, there is a ditch there. We know very well when there was no ditch, when a policy was carried out on destroying the child, the woman, the young, without saying, the child. Look, after June 7th... Still, as you know, there are no moats in Van. We've seen with our eyes a lot of gas sprayed on people's weddings, and we've seen people cancel those weddings. Today we see very clearly that the internal security package that you've released is once again an investment in the concept of this prepared war. You've singled out the press, you've collected it in one hand, and you've imposed that no news has been made except for the ones you've asked for. You've already done what's necessary for those who haven't done it, he's his trustee, and that's that. You tried to silence those who wanted to use their democratic right to protest on the streets with indiscriminate force, protests, detentions. You either suspended the co-chairs or you had them arrested. Judgement, again, has been brought together in one hand as an expression of the end of the separation of powers. In this situation, we insist that this existing, unmovable system does not help any of us, not one individual in Turkey. We have to put aside the patterns we've memorized, the ones we can't go beyond saying. We don't have the luxury of ignoring the benefits of society for personal gain. One side is clearly and truly facing destruction. Yes, in the region, the soldier who was sent there to his death, the police are called: "You are going to defend the country, you are saving the country from division, you are going to go with honor. Let me make it clear to you that there is no country facing the threat of division. That's how much you understand the Kurdish people. That's how much you understand the rights of the Kurdish people, what they want.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0343par0019	We understand Kurdish people, you understand terrorists.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0344par0020	What do you call terrorists?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0345par0021	Without these rights, you wouldn't be able to express it there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0346par0022	Therefore, the children of those whom you send to die for the love of the palace, the day will come, and we will ask you with them.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0347par0023	Are you threatening me?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0346par0024	No, if we insist under this Parliament... I've just stated, distinguish between threat and reality.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0348par0025	The only truth is, terrorists put the gun down. Our government is fighting terrorism.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0346par0026	I'll tell you this: We're all pretty much critical of the 1990s, aren't we? Thousands of unsubs, thousands of burned villages. What's the difference when we're looking at the present?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0349par0027	Look, you can talk freely here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0350par0028	Do you know where you're talking?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0346par0029	Hundreds of civilians were slaughtered. Again, over a hundred thousand people were forced to emigrate, and nearly 1,300 ▪ were victims of this war.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0351par0030	What war?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0350par0031	Not war, fighting terrorism, fighting terrorists.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0352par0032	Hey, listen up!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0353par0033	Again, over a hundred people have been arrested, and that's how we remember the 1990s, but that's how they'll be remembered years later.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0354par0034	In the 1990s, you wouldn't be able to talk there, they'd have taken you away. You can talk there because of the reforms we've made.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0353par0035	Thanks to what? Look at you. Look at you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0354par0036	Through reforms. You're talking there because of the reforms you oppose.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0353par0037	While Mother Taybet still saw the bodies of the Miray baby, we...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0354par0038	You can't convince anyone, let alone you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0355par0039	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0353par0040	You can't fool anyone, you can't fool anyone.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0356par0041	We don't have that problem.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0353par0042	Freedom doesn't come this way.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0357par0043	Will he come with terror?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0358par0044	We're ignoring the terrorist, the terrorist.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0353par0045	Freedoms don't come to the love of the palace by ignoring one side, slaughtering another. You should know that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0359par0046	We don't want to convince anyone.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0353par0047	And as long as we exist, we will continue to stand up to your monogamous system with dignity. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0360par0049	Even the European Court of Human Rights doesn't believe you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0361par0050	No one believes you anymore.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0362par0051	You don't believe the truth of what you're talking about.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0363par0052	I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There is no word on the 2nd article. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On the matter, Bitlis MP Mizgin Irgat... Here you go, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0364par0062	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. In fact, before I started speaking, I saw clearly that what I learned in college, what was taught in books when I was a student, what was taught in books, what was taught in books, what wasn't in reality.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0365par0064	You must've missed it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0364par0065	I'd appreciate it if you didn't answer. Please, we all have our maturity. You know nothing but to provoke this House, I know you. Please listen. At the point of human dignity and truth, I really think we should listen to each other. On behalf of 550 members of this legislature...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0366par0069	Let's hear it, guys.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0364par0070	So if you won't listen, I won't talk. Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0367par0072	Congressmans, please. You go ahead and talk, Mr. Irgat. Mr. Lawmakers, please don't disturb the minister's people.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0075	I mean, we're aware, we're very clear that the activities here are purely an image, and we have no doubts about that. So it's pretty clear that Parliament, which claims to be conducting legislation with what's happening now, is not already a match. So I'm trying to tell a little bit of the truth here. The right to know the truth at a human rights point is also considered a right. Unfortunately, what is spoken in Parliament now, what is done, what is spoken of, is not reflected in the truth. A motion for our group here today has been rejected. What was our motion? It was about sick prisoners and prisoners. Unfortunately, a motion has been submitted here regarding sick prisoners, including 282 of whom are heavy, 720 of whom are sick. Here...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0369par0078	There is no such thing as a prisoner.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0370par0079	What is a prisoner? He's under arrest, so he's under arrest.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0080	I'm talking political prisoners, political.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0370par0081	Prisoner, prisoner, not prisoner, guilty.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0082	According to reports in Strasbourg, Turkey ranks second after Russia. Where is it located? At the human rights point, we come after Russia, because of the pressure on the press and its policies to increase violence. This is probably not a random report, it's not my report, it's an official report from Strasbourg. Why did we get this report, why did Turkey get this report, why are we in second place? It's all about reality, violence. Despite a contract of violence against women, violence against women in this country is not over. When we look from economy to law, freedom of press to freedom of expression in the 13-year AKP administration, you'll see under all of them violations. Turkey has decided to condemn all of them, and we say, "Let Turkey fall behind this ranking." Turkey is private...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0371par0084	If we're sitting here in a headscarf, it's the success of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0085	No, no, not at all.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0372par0086	We've fallen behind that lineup. There were no convictions in the 1990s at the European Court of Human Rights.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0087	You can't impose power on the majority here. Everyone here, here... is the representative of Turkey's mosaic. And here the AKP's government claims to have done very good things in 13 years, saying he's done very well with fancy motions, but what comes out of it? Under it comes journalists who are charged with violence, oppression and life imprisonment, dead children come out, women who are murdered. So all of us, all of us, but we need to change our genetic code. I'm saying this for all the parties.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0373par0089	You change it first.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0090	By getting rid of the genetic codes of all the parties here...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0374par0091	You change it, we'll settle for our genetic code.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0092	...to survive, but to survive, to look at the legislature that way. We all have to know the truth and act accordingly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0375par0093	Hitler began by altering the genetic codes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0094	In view of the truth, the AKP in this country has never been the solution to any problem. If our problems were solved, we wouldn't be in second place today. Now, when we're talking about sick prisoners, as a lawyer who actually travels all the prisons, and now, unfortunately, we're supposed to be visiting prisons, we can't even use our most normal rights, and I can't go after I'm a deputy to prison when I'm a lawyer. Thus, the prisons of this country, the prisons of this country, the prisons of political prisoners are troubled. Do you ever wonder what these people are living behind that wall, what's behind that wall? Have you ever wondered what's going on in those prisons, what kind of a story those people make there? We all thought we'd go to those prisons and investigate, but you refused.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0376par0096	Did you ever wonder why they came in?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0097	It doesn't matter. They are there because of their political opinion in this world, and unfortunately, because of the militant policies conducted during the AKP administration, they also face very serious rights violations there. When we look at the history of this country's prisons, it's really full of rights violations that we can't explain here today during legislature activity. Let's look at Imralı Island; the Imralı Prison -- which is mentioned today is the best place to be cared for. From 1999 to 2009 -- it was ruled by a crisis administration of the Prime Ministerate, which had been ruled by a high-security closed prison organization. Then, after CPT and similar reports, five prisoners were transferred there, and one day suddenly, two prisoners were transferred to Silivri Prison in January. In the middle of the night, he was sent to Silivri Prison in the middle of the night, without collecting any of his belongings, without receiving any books, poems, notes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0376par0099	What stuff in prison?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0100	He was not interviewed by his attorneys in Silivri Prison, his lawyers were restricted, and the state of emergency in İmralı Prison was continued in Silivri. So the person you're talking about there is an honorary citizen of Naples, Mr. Ocalan. So we couldn't create a real democratic prison standards for political, political prisoners, convicts, and other criminal prisoners. We're trying to open up new prisons every day when we're trying to shut down prisons. Therefore, we have seen clearly that after the events of children's prisoners, especially in Şakran, İzmir, prisons, detention centers, there is no obstacle at the point of preventing crime. The way to prevent guilt is not to open prisons, or, in your own words, the ones caught in terrorism, which we call "politic prisoners."
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0377par0102	That's what you always say, he's got a gun.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0103	They're there because of what you think, you can't put shackles on their thoughts by throwing them in prisons.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0378par0104	Whose Parliament are you in? Are you a prisoner too?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0105	No force has ever put a chain on thought.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0379par0106	We don't hit your feet, we hit your hands, we hit your shackles.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0107	Thus, we believe that rights violations in prisons should be changed immediately, and Turkey should take steps to move its second position back. In the third article that just passed, it was a substance that we didn't get a chance to talk about, which I had made a promise to give a speech about the transfer of prisoners, and I had to talk about it here. So what you're all calling the church now, but life is as real as we are now, is that 26 citizens still haven't been brought to the hospital in a basement.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0380par0109	If you hadn't shot the ambulances, they would have made it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0110	If there's a crime anywhere, you take him in, you take him into custody, you take him to the hospital; the prosecutor goes in for questioning, he either arrests him or releases him. The border around a geography...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0380par0112	If you don't shoot the ambulances, the ambulances will go there and pick them up.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0381par0113	The ambulances can't get in there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0114	Listen to me... Listen to me... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] By drawing a border around a geography, we will blockade the entire community under the name of government.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0382par0117	There's no such thing. It's just surrounding terrorists, being enforced by law.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0118	No, that's not the truth. Yeah, that's something you've memorized.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0383par0119	Mr. Irgat, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0120	Look, these people...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0384par0121	Traitors?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0122	These people will lose their lives...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0385par0123	Mr. Irgat, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0124	...Turkey will rise to first place, but the facts will not change.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0385par0125	Mr. Irgat...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0386par0126	There's nothing credible about a terrorist who calls himself a political prisoner.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0127	The presence of Kurds in this country...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0387par0128	It's only against the existence of terrorists... Fighting terrorism and terrorism.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0368par0129	No one will be able to suppress the righteous struggle the Kurds have fought for their own honor, no one. No one will be able to stop this struggle. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0388par0132	Talks on Article 3 have been completed. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Thus, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and in spite of that help, the members of the voting boards will be delivered to the presidency within three minutes of the scheduled vote. In addition, I request that the ministers who will vote by proxy, which minister will vote by proxy, vote by the color of the vote and the ballot bearing its name and name and name, again be delivered to the presidency within three minutes of the vote, and I will begin the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of a clear vote on the adoption of the Council of Europe Convention on Clearing, Investigating Criminal Influences, Investigating, Confiscation, Co-operation, and Finance of Terrorism: ▪ Number of Votes Used: 198 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which are ranked third. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 52 rows. Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel is on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group who wants to speak on the whole bill. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0389par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, yes, in the speech on the transfer of prisoners, I would say that indeed, all cities and districts in Turkey are filled with prisons, and we can say that Turkey has become a pressure element in prisons, which states that there is no freedom of thought, that people do not express themselves freely and that they cannot have free will to express their thoughts. When we state the terms of the prison today, it is freedom of speech that Turkey is most convicted in the European Court of Human Rights. Academics, journalists, politicians, co-chairs, Assemblymen, women activists, who freely express their opinion in Turkey today are arrested and sent to prisons for the thought of youth. Not only are they sending the judicial system to prisons, but the judicial system in Diyarbakir is also being exiled to other provinces, unfortunately, in the process in which it should go to prison. There are so many arbitrary practices that we can determine so many situations where the law, the Constitution, has been violated that we want to hold you from isolation and torture in prisons, from the naked search of women prisoners in private, to the discrimination of women prisoners and general political prisoners. Currently elected mayors of the municipalities in Turkey are sentenced to life imprisonment for participating in the press release, which is not enough, facing a number of sentences and exiles. It is a shame for Turkey to be in prison for the chosen ones now. It is a shame for the chosen ones to be banished, tortured, kept in prisons, and even postponed their trial. Yes, in 2009, there were arrests of the ACK with a political genocide operation, so it was said: "What shall we do, shall we slaughter like the 1990s, or shall we arrest him? Of course we will. Ten thousand Kurdish politicians were released from prison, then released from prison without a statement. The trial has just begun, the trial in the TK main case has just begun today. Where's 2009, where's 2016? In Turkey, the legal system is broken. With such unjust and unlawful practices, his transfer with another member of the family environment, the survival of an exile, in fact, is an understanding of how much the AKP government considers family integrity. When it comes to political prisoners, the AKP government, who considers to be in the family integrity, has, unfortunately, eliminated what must be tried in Diyarbakir, which must be kept in prison with another one, and family integrity. I'd like to point out that there was a commitment to the immediate recovery of the 60-year-old, 70-year-old prisoners in prison, but that commitment was not fulfilled. Despite forensic reports, there was an eviction order, the coroner's report said that arrest warrants were issued for those who were released from prisons later. However, the decision was changed six months after he was released from prison, despite a report that his stay in prison was not justified due to health problems, and that his life was in danger in prison, and the sick prisoners who were sent back to prison... I'm going to name a few things. Makbule Uzbek, 65 years old, has diabetes, blood pressure, heart, many diseases. He was arrested for attending a press release and sent to prison for ten years. We've already stated in the previous bag law, and we're saying again today: Despite his sentence being reduced to less than a year, Mother Makbule is still being held in prison. However, according to the Penal Code, he should normally be released after going to an open prison, but women should be treated with positive discrimination, while, unfortunately, women, as usual, are forced to take less advantage of certain rights because such an opportunity is not available to women. What's it called? We want to know how many prisoners have died in prison so far. Secondly, I'm going to say this about prisons: Yes, lawmakers from our group who want to visit political prisoners in prison are unfortunately being blocked from even entering prisons. However, the government, which has to treat all parties equally, is closed the prison doors to HDP MPs who want to go to the prison of the Minister of Justice, and are not allowed to take advantage of such an opportunity. When our lawyer friends entered more comfortable prisons, they became MPs now, but they can't go to prisons to see anyone. But no party asked me why this discrimination was made. I mean, if you question the environment you're doing in prisons, the isolation you're applying one more time, I think if you develop empathy, this Congress will work a lot better. But, let me tell you, your segregation in prisons will determine your next process more precisely. Yes, we've told you before: our co-chairs have been arrested for attending the press release. There is a state understanding of the democratic autonomy project of municipalities that does not even comply with international contracts on the creation of self-government, the giving of authority to municipalities. When we say self - control, or management, we are at the point where these words are almost eliminated. Let me be very clear, this has been discussed today, and again, we know very well what this parliamentary system really means when this Parliament is not allowed to work. The fact that parliament is either on vacation or failing to perform its function is a situation that should be questioned. So, if we're talking about freedom of thought, the parliamentary system, the democratic autonomy or the presidential system, why don't we discuss them all equally together? Why can't we discuss them all together in Turkey, together with the public? When we say "Democratic autonomy," we destroy the world. But I'd like to ask, there are too many democratic autonomy models in this world. Then we must destroy the whole world. I'll give you an example, just a few examples. I'd also like to give an example of Mr. President's earlier speech. For example, in a question asked him, he answers: "There are now 27 ethnic groups living in the Republic of Turkey. The existence of these ethnic groups must be recognised. It states that Kurds can live in a similar system with the state system. I'll tell you once again that the state system, autonomy, democratic autonomy, the cantonese system is something that should not be feared. It's not the idea of division, disintegration. I want to express that living together, together, is a system of democratic politics for all of Turkey. Democratic autonomy is not just a system the Kurds want. In democratic autonomy, it is the freedom of everyone to express themselves, the local one, in the district, and decide how they want to live freely. This applies to the Black Sea, to Diyarbakir, to Aydın, to Aegean, to Hakkari, and to Istanbul. I want to give you examples of autonomous states: Australia has nine states, Australia consists of nine states. The Republic of Azerbaijan also consists of 59 rayon regions, called rails, and 11 cities are autonomous. Again, the municipality and municipalities in France have autonomous regions and autonomous municipalities. Georgia has two autonomous republics. Iran is divided into 30 states. Spain has 17 autonomous regions. We can say it all with one name at a time. Switzerland also consists of 26 states. Italy is also a structure dominated by an administrative system of decentralisation. However, there are also 14 administrative states in Kazakhstan. Again, Kyrgyzistan is divided into seven administrative regions. Again, the same is true in Uzbekistan. Pakistan is also made up of five states, 11 provinces. Romania, again, has organized itself in the form of communities and has formed the form of governance, administrative departments, states and cities. We can increase them even more. I really don't think anyone should be afraid of democratic autonomy, self-government, self-management. It's a thought, it's controversial, it's political, it's generally discussed, and it's discussed within the Constitution. This is one of the essentials of a democratic country. If we want to live in an egalitarian, democratic and free country, then we'll do it with a constitution that everyone will feel in. That's what international contracts need to be observed. Now, you can't get out of this by not complying with international contracts, disregarding the decisions of the ECHR, or simply paying for Turkey's conviction of freedom of thought. So what we're saying here is that both democratic autonomy, self-management, and at the same time giving authority to locals and municipalities in private, we're not just referring to Diyarbakır, Ankara, Istanbul, Mardin, or Van. In all Turkey, local governments should also form their own autonomous structure, and we say that local resources should be developed through local governments. If we want to solve these problems, we can't solve the local executives by arresting the co-chairs. The mayors are in prison for their thoughts, perhaps because they're expressing what they think today, but tomorrow, just as with the KCK operation, evidence will be revealed that they were taken innocently, as with other operations, and all of them will return to Turkey in the ECHM. Now, if academics, journalists, lawyers are detained and arrested today, if they are questioned, you can't talk about democracy in this country, you can't talk about freedoms in this country if academics who have called on the EGO to take office are being trained here in national education or universities or are being prevented from attending seminars or panels here. If we want to talk about democracy and freedoms in a country, then we need to have an environment where everyone can express themselves freely, express their opinion.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0390par0169	Except divisive, except divisive.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0389par0170	Everyone has to express freely how they feel, how they feel. If we say democracy is essential, then democracies can't be a democracy if friends here just raise their hands. If we can't express our thoughts freely and develop a democracy through these freely expressed ideas, if we can't develop freedoms, if we can't create them, then there's a problem here. So once again, we condemn the prosecution, the arrest of Kurdish politicians, who express their views here and many places, as a disgrace to Turkey, which we already know, in many cases, Turkey has been convicted. This is one of the biggest obstacles to Turkey's entry into the European Union. We sign international contracts, but we don't stand by what we sign in international contracts, what we pledge. Istanbul Convention, CEDAW Convention, violence against women, discrimination against women, discrimination against women, which one of them have we obeyed and signed, and today we're expressing contracts? Again, in the government's programme for the initiative of local governments under democratic autonomy, it is a requirement for local governments because of autonomy in international contracts. So instead of interpreting everything that's going on in literature, we have to evaluate it by literature and by freedom of expression. Now, we have to see very clearly that people in the Black Sea in Turkey have said that they don't allow the HESS to slaughter their own olive gardens, their own nature, that they're not allowed to do HES.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0391par0174	There is no olive garden in the Black Sea, there is no nut garden.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0389par0175	We all know Mother Eve very well. We know the resistance to travel. As we are opposed to these HESEs in the Black Sea, so is Hasankeyf today.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0392par0176	There are no olives in the Black Sea, olives.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0389par0177	Today, we have made it very clear that at the same time today, Hasankeyf..
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0392par0178	There's anthrax, kiwi.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0389par0179	I know where the olive is. I invite you to Derik. The main olive is in the most important part of Turkey, Derik. You'll come, Derik, the olive that didn't grow up in Aydýl is in Derik.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0393par0180	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please. Mr. Demirel, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0389par0182	Here, let us invite you there, the world's most famous olive, named after you. So if you don't know any of this, we know how to talk about it here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0394par0183	This has nothing to do with the Black Sea.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0389par0184	You can see them very clearly in Derik. There are nine kinds of olives, and most importantly, they're wild. You won't find this anywhere but Derik. I mean, we know exactly what's growing in what country, what district, what district. The olives of the light and the Bergama olives can't keep up with the Derik olives. But let me put it this way...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0394par0185	Bergama is not in the Black Sea, he is not.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0389par0186	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0394par0187	Bergama is not in the Black Sea.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0389par0188	So you don't want to understand, so we're telling you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0395par0189	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0389par0190	Because Eve was against the HESS in the Mother Black Sea...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0396par0191	There are patriots in the Black Sea. There are patriots in the Black Sea.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0389par0192	... And again, because olive trees are not allowed to be removed in Aydın, because you're doing natural destruction everywhere, people are doing it by having ecology and caring about ecology. But as long as you produce and perform ecological damage, you will not be able to improve the country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0397par0195	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. CONTINUES TO CONTINUE PROTOCTION TO CONTINUE TO THE CONTRACT OF THE GOVERNMENT MADDE 1- (1) was approved by the Republic of Turkey on November 10, 2010 in Strasbourg. Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul has asked to speak on Article 1. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0398par0204	Mr. President, dear MPs, dear workers of the General Assembly, I salute you all. Dear friends, Turkey, unfortunately, is going through a period when the parliamentary system is being discussed. The parliamentary system has been virtually converted into a single man system by the President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0399par0206	That's how you talk here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0398par0207	The judiciary, which is now the foot of the parliamentary system, is completely neutralized, and this is dangerous, and this is not positive. Judgement has turned into a man who has become completely personal. When we come to conduct it, it is the same way that the execution was created during the AKP administration, in the person of Mr. President, by the people that Mr. President prefers. Unfortunately, when we come to the legislature, it is not a pluralistic law; it is not a region of Turkey that debates the needs of Turkey, but only the issues that are discussed on the part of the AKP -- no matter what problem Turkey is having -- they do not care, they do what they want, and they only rely on their majority. Look, this bag has been seen since the law. Laws are being stopped from discussing, the adoption of quality laws by society is being tried to be completely disqualified. Dear friends, look, on several examples, how the judiciary was immediately converted into a person in the past, just recently to the problems of the rectors, the DG, the universities, the intellectuals -- in Turkey -- we will not be a party to the people who created this situation. Unfortunately, right after the President's statement, the CEC has been criminalized, immediately taken into action, the rectors have taken action, and the intellectuals have taken action and gone away with a lynching campaign about academics. Dear friends, until the AKP government took power in 2007, the EPI, the rectors, it was always said that the RD should be replaced, and we will remove the OPJ. If you remember, in AKP's first government, a SEC amendment was also on the agenda during the Erkan Mumcu period. However, with the capture of the rectorys in 2007, it was discovered that the area was really important, that the area was a purely virgin area for the organisation of the AKP (AKP), and that the SEC was transformed into an unchanging, undisputable institution. Because AKP put dynamite at the foundation of science, saying "Her" with a university, and the basic sciences have been exhausted; the fundamental sciences that will now produce technology and science in Turkey are unfortunately at the end. According to our academic nature, science is run by science schools. When we say science, we think of basic sciences - physics, chemistry, mathematics, biology. At the moment, when you land a stitch in Turkey from Samsun, all universities on the east side of Turkey have been shut down; they haven't been shut down, but there's an actual closure situation, because the students have been somehow prevented from choosing this place. First a university with her. Then they told the rectors: increase your students. How do we increase them? At most, the quotas of the most important basic sciences have been first raised to 2, science faculty has opened up everywhere, and suddenly the number of science faculty graduates has increased, unfortunately, 100, maybe 200 percent. And in the end, all of these friends are out of work -- and we've mentioned in our previous talks -- a lot of them are depressed, and they're forced to choose expertise, police, and unfortunately they're losing their lives in the battle in the Kurdistan today. Is basic science only in the east, where you come down from Samsun? No, there's no such thing as basic science in the west of Turkey. Only the science departments of the major universities are open right now, and the other departments are closed, unfortunately. So why was science a positive science target in the AKP era? Because the AKP is a party afraid of the light. The AKP perceives enlightenment as a threat.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0400par0214	Is that why we increased the number of colleges?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0398par0215	Because the AKP wants to return to the caliphate, and our President wants to declare himself caliph. Today, in the Middle East, before Assad gave alms to Assad, while meeting at the level of Parliament, at the level of the Council of Ministers, going on vacations together, unfortunately, they became fully bloody because Assad did not accept the caliphate of the President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0400par0216	What kind of story are you writing? What kind of story is that?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0398par0217	At the moment, Syria's policy is based on the fact that Assad (Assad) does not accept the caliphate of Mr. President. Are you the one who did this to me? They made Syria, which is Assad's country, and now they have created an immigrant population in our country that has reached 2-2.5 million: Syrian immigrants. And most of them are scattered throughout cities, some of them staying at the AFAD camps.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0401par0218	Why? Are you uncomfortable with them coming to Turkey? Assad couldn't find a man to kill.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0398par0219	AFAD camps are a disgrace. ISIS is organized in AFAD camps, ISIS is organized and fighting in Syria, return to Turkey, there, here, in different parts of the world, blowing themselves up. Again, at AFAD camps, at the AFAD camp in Karkamish, the agenda came up at a certain time when 31 chiefs gathered together to form a prostitution ring, and during the day, the prostitution ring took women out at a certain time and used them in prostitution, and then returned to the camp at a certain hour. We give questions about this, we give questions about ISIS. Sadly, the government does not answer the questions we ask, especially when you know that ISIS has threatened all kinds of lives, sleep cells, even in everyday life, is now visible, and everyone is concerned. Well, it's not going, it's not going. Why are you covering your ears, dear friends? Antwerp is in danger of Peshawarization. It is the same situation in Peshawar, and the same danger lies ahead now. And what is Peshawar? Just as the Turkish Republic's AKP government supported ISIS, it supported the Pakistani government of al-Qaeda gangs who once fought in Afghanistan, and when one day it was forced to pull its support, well, those Al-Qaeda gangs turned around and started shooting Pakistan. They raided a military school in Pakistan and shot 150 military students at the age of 150. They just recently killed 20 people again. Tomorrow, that danger will keep him waiting at the door of Antwerp. Because at the moment, everyone is concerned that he is living in the same building with a DAHI gang. Because they're being treated in hospitals in Antwerp, they're being protected, they're being protected, and no official in the state perceives the DAİHK as a terrorist organization. When we announce them to local authorities, when we get them to local authorities, when we share them with them, unfortunately, we don't get the necessary response. Because, like I said, fish stink all over again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Recep Tayyip Erdogan believes that this war in Syria must continue. In order to do so, he needs to be able to keep working with the DAIST. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0402par0225	You've written this script, make a movie, and I'll watch it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0403par0226	I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Van MP Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan has asked for a statement on the 2nd article. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0404par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, today is the seventh day in the basement of violence.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0405par0234	Oh, that's enough, we're sick of it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0406par0235	Enough, enough, enough!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0404par0236	Yes, I know, you're very upset.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0406par0237	We're sick of it. We're sick of it. The same thing, you're like parrots!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0404par0238	Yes, you're bored.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0406par0239	You're like parrots, parrot! We're sick of it! We're sick of it!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0407par0240	That's enough, that's enough!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0408par0241	I mean, even if it's possible, you'd better sign it at home and bring it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0406par0242	This is writing a script now! Write, write! Write the script!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0409par0243	But we, on behalf of our nation, are obliged to express, express, and remind, on behalf of our people, the drama that happened there, the human drama, and the responsibility of the government, that is our conscientious responsibility. You need to see and hear the truth of what's happening in the country.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0410par0245	You see, we can't!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0409par0246	Yes, you can't see, Congressman, please listen. If the severe violations of rights in the 1990s had been tried in those days, the responsible had been brought to justice one by one, and the original perpetrators had been punished, we might not have been doing the same thing today. One of the biggest causes of the problem we face in the country today is punishment. Because there's a system, a structure, a promise of punishment, a promise of punishment. Both the ECHR applications and the Constitutional Court applications are mainly focused on the right to live. Because the basic right to live is right. That's the highest and ideal stage of humanity's mind, but instead of making effective investigations in hundreds of cases, unfortunately, in thousands of cases, by making acquittals, by time-consuming, by judging those responsible...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0411par0249	He remained in the 1990s, with no decision from the European Court of Human Rights on their behalf. That was in the 1990s.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0409par0250	...providing a reward to the victim, he's somehow exonerated the perpetrators in cases of aggravated human rights violations every time. There are hundreds and thousands of decisions against Turkey from the ECHM. In today's specific case, an open crime is also committed according to Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0411par0251	At that point, the European Court of Human Rights no longer makes an executive, practical, systematic unlawful decision. They're behind us.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0409par0252	First of all, the European Convention on Human Rights is bound by Turkey.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0411par0253	Despite your struggles, we've done these things, reformed them.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0409par0254	Congressman, I suggest you open up the legislation and take a look.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0412par0255	Let's not interfere, Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0409par0256	This is our internal law norm. He's in violation of the ban on torture and malfeasance, Turkey, and he's clearly committing a crime. Six people have died in front of the whole world for seven days, and 22 lives still face death there. Another aspect is that Turkey is also committing crimes under the Geneva Conventions -- the law of war. The absence of the wounded, not being taken, not being allowed to pass the ambulance, making it look like a conflict every time an ambulance is on its way, it already reveals everything. You don't want to see this, but that's it. The people there, we have all the reports of the world, there are millions of witnesses, but... you can call it the fight against terrorism. Turkey doesn't call it war to escape the Geneva Conventions, but there's only one definition, the only definition of what happened, is this war. Look, the esteemed MPs, that's Cizre. This is Cizre, 2016, and this is your work. Remember that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0413par0259	It's your work.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0414par0260	It's the work of terrorists.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0415par0261	It's the work of terrorists.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0413par0262	We don't take it personally, it's your doing.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0416par0263	And here's the basement of the savagery 400 meters away today.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0417par0264	Those terrorists you call the ones who took our power, they did it, and you're taking your power away from them.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0416par0265	It is the responsibility of this state for the failure of the ambulance to make it from Nusaybin Street, a distance of 400 meters.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0418par0266	If that's what the terrorists did to him, why are you a government? What will you now manage in Turkey?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0419par0267	You tell me what you're going to say.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0418par0268	I'm telling you, you. Then why are you running Turkey?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0419par0269	Tell me, why are you telling me?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0420par0270	Do you know when these ditchs were opened? It's a one-party period.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0418par0271	The trenches opened in 1930!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0420par0272	The moats also opened during a single party period.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0421par0273	You put them in the House in 1991.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0418par0274	Where have you been? Did you rule in Germany? Did you rule in Somalia? Then where were you?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0421par0275	Even the minister did it in 1991.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0422par0276	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0423par0277	Today we took the Supreme Court's decision as an example, a real legal disaster.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0421par0278	Didn't you go to Parliament together in 1991?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0424par0279	We still can't turn off what they've opened, and they're opening a new one. They're devastated.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0425par0280	You can't close it, and you can't close it with that head.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0426par0281	It's a real legal disaster because the Supreme Court is asking how the wounded were injured there. The Constitutional Court has made a decision on Cizre exactly as to whether the people remembered were injured, whether they were injured, whether they were injured under what circumstances, whether they were all injured, whether they were armed and at what address they were at.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0425par0282	Where have you been?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0427par0283	The government does the meeting with Ocalan, the AKP does the double routes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0425par0284	They put all those guns in there, where were you? What were you doing? What do you do for a living?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0428par0285	Where are you?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0425par0286	What do you do, what do you do?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0429par0287	We've been looking at your reviews, looking at how you've been critical of the solution process.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0425par0288	What do you do, what do you do?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0430par0289	We've been messing with you!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0431par0290	Mayor, if you don't mind, I'd appreciate it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0432par0291	Mr. Akar, Mr. Koktaş, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0431par0292	The Constitutional Court's decision is a disaster in the name of the law. There's a Constitutional Court that needs to secure rights and freedoms...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0433par0293	If they put those guns in there, if they did, what the hell did you do?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0434par0294	Why don't you say it there once?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0433par0295	That's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0434par0296	Since then, say it since then.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0433par0297	Tell me what you do for a living. Where was the government? Who was running this country?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0435par0298	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0434par0299	Say it this way, ever since...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0436par0300	You can't say it there, there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0437par0301	I can't tell him there! Come on! You're being easy, I'll tell you! I'm telling you, who was running this country!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0436par0303	What's with the hand-to-hand moves?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0438par0304	What the fuck are you doing in there?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0439par0305	Mr. President, I'm asking you to stop my time.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0440par0306	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0441par0307	Don't say that, you... talk decently!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0440par0308	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0441par0309	Speak up!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0442par0310	No fucking way, no fucking way.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0441par0311	You're gonna talk like a man!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0443par0312	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0442par0313	No fucking way. No fucking way.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0444par0314	Mr. President, I'm gonna have to ask you to step in.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0443par0315	What can I do?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0444par0316	Interfer, stop my time, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0443par0317	You address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0445par0318	Take a break, Mayor, take a break.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0446par0319	He's talking nonsense!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0447par0320	Don't be an artist!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0448par0321	Congressmans, please... Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0449par0323	How can I proceed, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0448par0324	What can I do?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0449par0325	I'm asking you to stop my time.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0450par0326	Don't be an artist! Know your manners, sit there like a man!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0451par0327	Don't come in here, don't come in here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0450par0328	I've never fucking told anyone here!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0452par0329	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0451par0330	Don't go through here, friends, don't go through here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0450par0331	Sit down, don't come! Don't come, sit down!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0453par0332	Don't come in here, don't come in here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0454par0333	Say something to Haydar Akar. Let Haydar Akar take a proper seat there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0455par0334	Congressmans, take your seats... please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0456par0335	Guys, come on...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0457par0336	He's saying "Ian," he's saying "whatever."
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0455par0337	Mr. Akar, please, please... Congressmans, take your seats.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0458par0339	All right, fellas, sit down.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0459par0340	Okay, what are you excited about? Sit down, everyone. Sit down. That's how one talks when one has no words.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0460par0342	Here you go, Mr. Ertan.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0461par0343	I stated today that the Constitutional Court's decision on Cizre was a legal disaster because there are questions about how the wounded were injured. Clearly, the court has ruled against the law.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0462par0344	He's talking nonsense!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0463par0345	Okay, guys.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0464par0346	Tell him, tell him.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0462par0347	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0465par0348	Come on, we're here, we're here!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0466par0349	Congressmans, please, please... Here you go, Mr. Ertan.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0467par0351	Yes, even the Constitutional Court, which needs to secure rights and freedoms, is trying to categorize wounds in a way that violates all human rights standards. Civilian or not, everyone, whoever was injured in the war, must be treated first, and then, if he wishes, he can be tried, depending on his condition. Turkey is now on trial by leaving him to die directly. Everyone should know that it is the law that lasts. Anyone who commits a crime will be tried one day. Today, law enforcement officers and government officials who commit crimes in that area openly commit war crimes, and there is only one reason why they are so reckless, which is the promise of punishment. It has recently appeared, so do not hesitate to stand in front of the prosecutor. Instead of entering the coffin, go to the prosecutor's office. Also, put aside the order. The statement is a top-notch promise of punishment. Those who take courage from it continue to practice all kinds of illegalities. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0468par0355	I submit the 2nd Amendment to your votes... those in favor...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0469par0356	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0468par0357	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0470par0358	He's taking a vote.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0471par0359	No, we did, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0472par0360	President, we've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0470par0361	You're late.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0473par0362	Sustained. You'll want it next time, before.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0474par0364	Mayor, you're not giving me a chance. What kind of argument is this?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0473par0365	But once it's processed, there's no interference.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0474par0366	When did you start processing, Mayor?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0473par0367	Before we begin the procedure, you have to tell me before the vote.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0475par0368	We did, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0474par0369	President, you're preventing the law from being healthy. If the AKP Group is so curious, let them come to pass these laws.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0473par0370	Oh, for God's sake! The Council of Ministers shall carry out these laws. In the name of the People's Democratic Party Group, Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0376	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I speak, I'd like to start with a statement from Erich Fromm. The truth can never be rebuttal with violence. First, I'd like to read you a map of Turkey. In the general ranking of 99 countries in the Supremeity of Global Law Index, Turkey ranks 78 in the main rights category, 69 in the open state principle, 67 in order and security, 38 in the order of regulatory and 35 in the ranking of non-corruption, 47 in the civil justice system, 72 in the government's accountability, 27 in the last, and 78 in the global ranking of fundamental rights. At the same time, Turkey is ranked 41st among 76 countries in the overall global education research conducted by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development so far, and this is only in 2014. 2015 is probably going to be two or three times that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0477par0378	How do you know?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0379	We know because we can see the consequences from the current violent policies. And we've told you a lot about it, but unfortunately for you, your perceptions are off, so I'm not going to talk about it again, because that's where it ends. I just want you to know that now, with these eight months of violent policies, with these war policies, as many, hundreds of people have lost their lives so far -- this is a personal prediction -- today, if the wounded in Cizre are not removed from there, in the morning, and after that, I honestly don't have much hope that anything will be done, even if they are already gone. And while we're sharing these with you, don't think about it: it's a service that deserves to be taken and served there as a mother's milk. Health care: Today, we all know very well what health care is like, and we know very well about health care, the Public Hospitals Association of Turkey -- created through complex hospitals -- bringing performance systems to work through performance, and through it, we know what kind of working conditions there are for health workers who are sentenced to pay-axis care. He needs to take care of at least 70 or 80 patients a day so that he can have a living, a salary, but if he has money, he can be treated for 400 percent of his contribution at the private hospital. So you can get as much service as you can, if you don't have money, you can't serve, you can't get service. When you look at the social state sense, you keep telling me that everything is so perfect, that everything is so beautiful, but because you don't live your own practices, you don't see it happening at the bottom of the public like you always do. You don't even know how poor people are, how millions of unemployed people are, and how millions of people live with them, where they live on the edge of poverty, when you look at the living area, but when you talk, you do your literature very well, all your language on it, but when you look at practical applications, it's zero. It's just that we've always explained the social dimension, the extent of violence and security. I don't really care to tell you because I have no hope that you'll understand, that's clear.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0478par0383	We're just trying to keep it simple, but...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0384	But I don't want to say this, and I want to stress that I hope that tomorrow, hopefully, everything will be better, but with your policies and your stances, unfortunately, you'll be overwhelmed. We carry out all our responsibilities on our conscience and from where we stand and as a party.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0479par0385	Yeah, yeah
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0387	Now I'm looking at bag laws being made, and they're going very quickly, very quickly, but it's very comfortable for the next week, the CHP, AKP and the MPP partner, they can get together and immediately compromise on the holiday. When it comes to the Kurdish problem, it's odd that they're able to look at the ceiling and move on from the same perspective. Look, one week, next week, when all these countries are on fire, it's a great measure of responsibility for this House to be able to think about vacations, make sentences over vacations.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0480par0389	What vacation, what vacation?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0481par0390	Because we don't have Kurdish problems, we don't. You won't have any trouble with Kurd! Kurd is my brother, no problem.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0391	Today has nothing to do with work. Congress has to work all the time.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0482par0392	We're working on it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0483par0393	We're working, but where are your deputies?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0394	Today the struggle of the Kurdish people is a battle for status, and this struggle, one way or another, will eventually come to a point. You can't speak for the Kurdish people! The Kurdish people's status struggle, of course, and of course...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0484par0398	Where are your MPs?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0485par0399	You speak for the mountain, mountain! You speak for the mountain you hold your back on. Don't speak for the Kurdish people!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0400	...and you'll be the first to look over there and applaud her...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0486par0401	Where's Demirtaş? Where's Demirtaş?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0402	...just like you sat down and applauded the Dolmabahçe agreement, all of you, including your presidents.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0486par0403	Where is your deputy who carries a gun in Cizre, Şırnak MP? Don't lecture us!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0404	Dolmabahçe agreement, February 28th... you remember, all of you, when the microphones were handed to your hands, when they were stretched out to your mouth...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0486par0405	Where's your congressman?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0406	...through heroics and peace, what beautiful sentences you've made over mothers.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0486par0407	She's on vacation, she's on vacation! He's on vacation with terrorists, your congressman! Don't lecture us!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0408	Because by that time, you were all behind the Dolmabahçe agreement. Whatever happened after the Dolmabahçe agreement, it's strange that you all started to form the same sentences, like long before the conflict process, over a sign. Your will, your will to that moment, is suddenly reversed. What happened? You were people who didn't cry until yesterday, today...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0486par0409	What's Mr. Faysal doing? Is he taking a vacation?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0487par0410	We fought politics, we didn't fight guns.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0411	Mr. Faysal is fighting with his people.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0488par0412	It's not the people, it's the terrorists, it's the terrorists.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0413	I wish you were as brave as Mr. Faysal! I wish you were as brave as Mr. Faysal!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0489par0414	Don't do this!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0415	If you were as brave as Mr. Faysal...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0489par0416	Then you won't say anything! Don't talk to us!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0417	...today, as we talk about your city's problems...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0489par0418	Don't talk to us! Don't talk to us, don't talk to us! Over here...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0419	...in your heart, in your faith, you would have said it at all costs.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0489par0420	Don't talk to us!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0421	You are the last person to sit here and speak to Mr. Faysal.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0490par0422	Mr. President, the reports... will apologize to Mr. Faysal.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0423	I'll never take Faysal Bey... and I won't even answer you, it's not right where you're standing.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0491par0425	Don't, don't!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0492par0426	He was a courier to terrorists! How can you put it in the same pocket! Of course you can't.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0427	At the same time, the Dolmabahçe agreement today was a manifesto of the common life of all peoples, of pluralist life. (AK PARTY) Everyone had opened that manifesto to a very beautiful debate, but in an environment that was open to debate, none of you had a single negative sentence against the Kurdish people until then, and suddenly you began to speak the most negative, the most hateful, the most racist words to the Kurdish people.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0493par0428	Mr. President is explaining our opinion of him.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0494par0429	The police are giving the manifest to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Cizre. He knows what a manifesto is...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0430	If you thought about the cops today...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0494par0431	He gave you the manifesto.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0432	...in order for the police not to die, for solutions and negotiations, you would not sit here, you would form the sentence, you would work on solutions and negotiations, not deaths. We didn't discuss death until one day.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0495par0433	You dug a ditch for the solution, dug a ditch for the solution.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0494par0434	Ask Faysal Bey if he has any other weapons left to give to the PKK.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0435	Don't even mention the name of Mr. Faysal! It's not worth it, I'm not even answering to you. How many people like Mr. Faysal, how many deputies are there, I ask you?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0494par0436	Ask him, is there any more weapons he'll give to the PKK? Maybe they ran out of guns.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0438	How many deputies do you have like Mr. Faysal?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0496par0440	That's why the deputy who supports the terrorists is there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0476par0441	Look, there's 90% vote for Mr. Faysal.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0497par0442	Mr. President, why aren't you interfering?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0498par0443	Congressmans, please, do not interfere. Mr. Heroalp, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0499par0445	Look, in Şırnak, the People's Democratic Party received 90 per cent of the vote.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0500par0446	Weapons-powered, weapons-threatening.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0499par0447	This is faith in the people who work like Mr. Faysal and this policy and this ideology. If you really believed that much, you would have removed a deputy or received a vote.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0500par0448	With a gun threat?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0499par0449	Why didn't you get it? You're bombing cities with tanks today because you can't get it, that's all you're worried about.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0500par0450	With a gun threat, a terrorist threat, a PKK threat?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0501par0451	Why did they beat up the artist?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0499par0452	Wherever we get a high vote today, you bomb them with tanks, because the Kurdish people are conscious, because they call it self-government, democratic governance.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0501par0454	What are you doing?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0502par0455	With the PKK threat, right? You received all those votes with the PKK threat, with the threat of terrorism.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0499par0456	You can't overcome your ambition, your anger. Your anger has dulled your conscience, and therefore, Mr. Faysal, you are not fit to respond to a heroic deputy as valuable as the Yellow Star.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0501par0458	Look, they beat up an artist today, put him in a coma.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0502par0459	Is Faysal carrying weapons to terrorists? He's a courier for terrorists, as you call them.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0499par0460	I'll say it first. Besides, I'm not answering your hate language. I'm gonna put you on the public conscience...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0502par0461	Faysal Yellowstar was caught delivering weapons to terrorists. He was arm in arm with terrorists, caught with a gun.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0503par0462	Who beat up that artist today? Who put that Kurdish artist in a coma today? Why don't you tell us about it? Let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0504par0463	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0505par0464	Now, are you interested in eating grapes or beating up the laces?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0503par0465	Did they beat up a Kurd? They beat him up just because he said something to the PKK. Tell them, let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0505par0466	If you were really interested in eating grapes, you'd talk about solutions and negotiations today; you wouldn't sit down and make sentences over advocacy, polarization, and you wouldn't make plans for next week's holiday.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0506par0467	You're the other ones.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0503par0468	What a vacation! Your friends are making the holiday! Where are your friends? Look at your group.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0505par0469	You're thinking about your people, your police, then you'll come and work in Congress. You're thinking about security, you're thinking about your security staff, you come in, you work here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0503par0470	Your friends are taking the holiday, not us.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0505par0471	30 of our deputies work in the field, including myself.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0503par0472	Look at your own group, your own group! Look at your own band, they're all on vacation!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0507par0473	If 30 are in the field, who is working in the Parliament?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0505par0474	I'm a deputy in the field. Today, I'm here to tell you about the problems of the field, but because of your racist language and your hatred...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0508par0475	Are you digging a hole or a hole?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0509par0476	Who dug those pits and ditchs?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0505par0477	The pit... Ditches have even been in the sacred period of Muhammad. What are you guys talking about today? You can't talk about anything, you can't talk about anything. It's your policies that condemn those people to the trenches.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0510par0478	Thanks to you, you let them, you support the terrorists.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0511par0479	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0505par0480	Your policies, which you condemn today, have created moats.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0512par0481	Are you defending the ditch?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0505par0482	Ditches and pits are your creations, and the pits and the ditchs are made by you. The dead, the soldiers, the police, the people - all because of you. Today, you have deceived the people through solutions and negotiations and strengthened your power from an environment of non-conflict, and everyone knows that very well. There's no back and forth. Until yesterday, look, even your close, backyard parties are thinking the same thing as you are, and when the time comes, Dolmabahçe can hit you over the agreement, and when the time comes, Mr. Commander can shoot you through Mr. Ocalan. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Why? By yourself, then... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Yours truly. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Talk to your own free thoughts!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0513par0490	You're under pressure from the mountain!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0514par0491	Article 3 of the Third Amendment...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0515par0492	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0514par0493	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0515par0494	During the speech, Mr. Orator, you've agreed to our party, the MHP, the CHP, the AKP... he made an accusation at the point, and we need to clarify that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0514par0495	Here you go, Mr. Special. Two minutes, please. Let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0516par0500	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Just now, Mr. Orator, on the stand, you've signed a deal with the AKP, the MP, you're going to take the Parliament on vacation. He's made an accusation like that. First of all, I'd like to say that there's a new debate, a new bullying, and I don't wish for any delays, any further delays in negotiations, because there are international agreements. In the current international agreement, the four parties agreed, no one voted against it; the agreement you voted against will soon be discussed, but this agreement was passed by the agreement of the four parties. If you're going to talk about the agreement of three parties, the Republican People's Party has planned and programmed itself at the point of parliament next week. We've been informed of the Justice and Development Party's intentions at this point, but they say the Plan and Budget Commission will continue their work. Our objection to that situation was that from here, we reinforce the Plan and Budget Commission on whatever ministry's budget is being discussed, and we contribute, and we add value to the negotiations there, and we care about the struggle there, the opposition, the contributions. Our request was that if the Justice and Development Party Assembly were to take a vacation, the Plan and Budget Commission would take a simultaneous vacation. If talks are concluded today by the AKP group proposal, which will be coming in soon or was made today, the Assembly will not work for three days next week. If you're saying a consensus on this, then yesterday, your member of the group, the vice president, signed a text first, and then -- a four-part agreement was wanted -- and when he signed his signature, a three-way agreement was not approved. The AKP group proposal came in today, and if you followed it carefully, it was decided by AKP's votes. Before we accuse the Republican People's Party of this, please, let's be careful of who suggested what and who voted what. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0517par0504	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0518par0505	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0519par0506	First Mr. Akchay made a request. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0520par0508	Just now, with the name of our speaker party on the stand... here's the AKP, the MHP Assembly...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0519par0509	Here you go, Mr. Akçay. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0520par0512	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, a holiday is a different concept, a break from work is a different concept. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not condemned to impose HDP (HDP); first let me express it, dear friends. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] There is no Kurdish problem in Turkey; there is a problem of terrorism; that is the first thing to know. (MHP and AK PARTY) That's what the Nationalist Movement Party was saying yesterday, and that's what it's saying today, and that's what it's going to say tomorrow, and I'll remind you, especially, dear friends. Alone and terrorist organizations want to make Kurds a problem in our country, and all their efforts from here. Therefore, those who act as if they were their own representatives by putting the Kurdish concept behind them are extremely wrong; one. Their attempt to become Turkish is becoming a complete contradiction. I'm going to be from Turkey. You're going to say, "I'm going to be from Turkey." And you're going to make some definitions. It's not possible. Mr. Speaker, please take the correct information from the deputy president of his group; he also has the necessary information; and I have not looked at the right arguments in his speech -- Mr. Deputy Director of the Group Demirel's speech -- but as far as I remember, let's discuss the presidential system as well. He says, "Let's discuss it first." He says, he also called it, but I don't think the next speaker didn't know about it either. It's obvious. We benefit from these international contracts as the National Movement Party. We also think it would be helpful for the Plan and Budget Commission to interrupt the work of both the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the next three days. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0521par0521	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0522par0522	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0521par0523	The bullying of both CHP Group and the MPP Group is obvious, President. Me, all at once...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0523par0524	We didn't!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0522par0525	What exactly did he say? That's why I have to ask.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0524par0526	Why don't you ask the others, Mayor?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0522par0527	I'm asking everyone, Mr. Mahmut. Please, Mr. Toğrul, don't interfere! I asked Akçay, and I asked Mr. Private.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0525par0529	I mean, we're not doomed to be imposed by the HDP. I mean, what did the HDP impose on him, not the prisoner?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0522par0530	Okay. Here you go. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0526par0534	Mr. President, I mean, all the talks are about bullying the HDP Group; they're still saying what they're saying! Yes, I'm a Kurd, I have a Kurdish problem.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0527par0537	No, no, no!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0526par0538	We're very clear on that. Turkey can never be democratic unless the Kurdish problem is resolved in this country. So if we want Turkey to democratize, we have to solve all problems.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0528par0539	You democratize first, you first!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0526par0540	We are a political party here in Turkey. We are a party that embraces the whole of Turkey and is free and equal to the Kurds and the Turks and the Laz Way, the beliefs, the identities. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Second, our friends from the CHP Group expressed themselves. There was only one thing we agreed on yesterday: to increase the amount of money for young entrepreneurs. Other than that, we've come to no agreement here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0529par0543	You must have thrown it out by mistake!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0526par0544	We've never allowed a break or a break for next week, and we're not going to. And that's what our struggle here today is about. Why don't you just...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0530par0545	If you don't, the House will decide!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0526par0546	So listen, listen, you understand. Why are there so many funerals going on all over the country, in a period when the soldiers, the police, the civilian population are in a pool of blood, with curfews in Cizre, the People's Republic, Sur. It is not for us to take a vacation while this country is in the field of war, it is not for us to shut down this Assembly, it is our duty to build a solution in this Parliament. So we're saying that the only thing we've come to terms with is the condition of young entrepreneurs, and we're expressing that we have no understanding except that, and let's just say...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0531par0548	It shouldn't be.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0526par0549	And we're saying it won't, yes. We're in favor of Parliament working in the parliamentary system. The presidential system, the parliamentary system, the unitary system, the decentralisation system, democratic autonomy, self-government, all of which should be discussed in this country. Democratic autonomy and self-expression, giving authority to the locals is a policy we've always advocated for. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0532par0553	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0533par0554	Mr. President, I'd like to make myself clear about this holiday.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0532par0555	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0533par0556	As for this holiday... a little while ago, the Parliament will be given a holiday next week by the AK PARTY. I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0532par0557	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes, please. Let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0534par0562	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, yes, yesterday we gave a group proposal, and today we gave a group of suggestions. The House is working on its agenda, and we're trying to get it to work, first of all. If they're sincere about running the House, they don't try to lock down the House every day with group advice; first of all.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0535par0564	Group advice is right, right. That's not true!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0534par0565	Secondly, our group proposal to run the House states: Yes, when international contracts ahead of all of us are completed today, there will be no meeting next week -- in any way -- in any way -- in any way -- in any way -- in any way -- in any way -- in any way -- in the future. That's normal, given the demand from other parties, it's not a vacation. Look, I don't want to confuse this with anything else. You signed under the Counsellor's Board yesterday, and then you pulled it out, and you gave that reason, and it's not very convincing, and I want to make it very clear. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) This is the expression of double-faced -- I'm not saying anything else -- which means you can't show your will. You should have stood by your signature. However, you're saying that there is a Kurdish problem in Turkey. Look, in this parliament, almost every party -- up and down -- we all sit together; if there was a problem, they would just sit there, just this one shows it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] However, I would like to point out in particular that, yes, there are curfews. There's only one reason why the PKK terror organization is threatening the lives and property of our civilian citizens there. There's a terror problem there, and until that's resolved, these restrictions will be enforced, and they will continue to be implemented until the pits are closed. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0536par0571	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0537par0572	Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0536par0573	The preacher publicly made statements to our group, as if by bringing in a group proposal, we were clogging the House. We need to make this clear.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0537par0574	Here you are, Mr. Ironel. Please, let this be the last time, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0536par0577	Now, we, yes, will bring in group proposals, we will always bring them because in this country, we believe we can solve problems by bringing group proposals, by arguing here, by expressing them. We don't lock this place up by bringing in group suggestions.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0538par0578	What are you doing right now?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0536par0579	You're the one who locked this place up! When this place opens, it only starts with how many people, just how many people do you end up with when you come to vote?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0538par0581	Take care of yourself!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0536par0582	I think you need to express it. We come with as much as we do.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0538par0584	Look at you!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0539par0585	Congressmans, please, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0536par0586	We come with as much as we do. Half of us, half of our friends... we don't have to pay for this.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0538par0587	Are we going to answer to you?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0536par0588	You're already here. It's obvious what you are.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0538par0590	How do you know?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0540par0591	Congressmans, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0536par0592	It's not just the Parliamentary effort to lift a finger, to download it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0538par0593	That's what you think!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0541par0594	You can't even lift a finger!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0536par0595	The AKP must know that very clearly at first. [[Get out of the AK PARTY rows! Get out of here!]] Parliament is not just a place to lift and lower a finger; it needs to be very clear. You can't solve this problem if you don't even know what's being discussed, and you just come in and put your finger down when you're called on the outside. If you want to solve problems, you will discuss them freely here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0542par0598	Look at you, yourselves!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0543par0599	What substance did you discuss? He's got 30 ways. You've been blocking everyone for six days! What substance did you talk about? What were you arguing about?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0536par0600	That's not going to happen with words or insults. Every word you utter, and every word you say, you will apologize, and you will apologize to them all.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0544par0601	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0536par0602	You can't mortgage our thoughts, we can freely express our thoughts here...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0545par0603	Our thoughts. Don't tell us the terrorist organization's instructions.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0536par0604	I mean, we don't let anyone tell us. We have made our thoughts and our will very clear here. Our group and we both know what we're signing up for, what we're talking about, and we're gonna keep knowing, and we're gonna keep talking. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0546par0609	Members of lawmakers, especially recently, there have been some talks on the stand, and we also see very clearly public opinion. In accordance with this Constitution and the Civil Law, I feel the need for an explanation. The Constitution of the Republic of Turkey states that the State of Turkey is undivisable with its country and its nation. The 14th Article of the Constitution also states that none of the rights and freedoms in the Constitution can be used in the form of activities aimed at disrupting the undivisable integrity of the state and its nation. Thus, at times, especially in recent times, the harsh and hurtful statements presented as a certain and physical reality are contrary to the laws of universal law with the Constitution and Internal Law, which are strongly contradicted by statements such as civil institutions and organizations and even by genocide. [[AK PARTY, ▪Bravo (Bravo) voices and standing ovations from the MHP rows, applause from CHP rows]] The foundation of the central and local management structure of the Republic of Turkey is organised on Articles 126 (b) and 127 (b) of the Constitution. Within these grounds, there is no administrative or geographical unit in the state of the Republic of Turkey under the name "curdistan." (AK PARTI and MHP, applause from CHP rows) (Kürdistan) is not right to mention a region within Turkey's borders as a separate sovereign and legal and political entity rather than using the expression as a historical and geographical term.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0547par0614	Haven't you heard of it?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0548par0615	We're touched because it reminds us.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0549par0616	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit05spe0550par0618	In addition to using a clean language under the Constitution and the Civil Code, it is the primary duty of all elected MPs to defend the undivised integrity of the country and the nation, to take a common stand against all kinds of terrorism and to act in accordance with the Constitution. As a result, there is no struggle between our Kurdish brothers. And as a Kurd, I'm very clear and clear that this is a fight against terrorism and I curse all kinds of terror. [[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0550par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks with Bill 52. The commission is here. The government is here. Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 3. Here you go, Mr. Agha. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0012	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Of course, I'm going to talk about Malatya, but I can't help but say a few things.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0552par0014	We're waiting.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0015	I mean, I can't stop. Now, friends, even though my memory is a little short, I remember some things, and I can't stop saying them. Now, you're always arguing with the HDP. There's no Kurdistan, there's no Kurd, there's no Kurdish problem, there's no terrorism.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0553par0017	They even denied the olive.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0018	For the first time, who used this word? On November 17, 2013, Mr. President used friends who called it "curdistan." I mean, there's so much interesting stuff going on that you can't believe.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0554par0019	"Lazistan," he said.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0555par0020	Are you on behalf of the HDP, Mr. Ağbaba?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0021	Look, dear friends, the same President says one day: "Let's get these BDP MPs out of the House." One day later, he says: "We're having peace talks. Look, I congratulate you, I really congratulate the AKP Group, I sincerely congratulate you, because there's not another party in the world that creates this kind of perception as much as you do. Look, Free Special told me the other day, and I keep telling you, congratulations to this AKP Group, congratulations to the AKP, you're the only party that can talk to the mountain and the island. What do you say? You're talking to Ocalan, we're not talking to Ocalan. You're talking to him. Who are you talking to? We're meeting with the Israeli. Is anyone talking to the island? Sir, negotiations are ongoing with Kandil.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0556par0022	You learn some manners. Get your memory together, talk like that!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0023	Do you talk to the mountain?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0557par0025	Connect the kandil to Malatya.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0556par0026	We're even talking to you! We're even listening to you!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0027	Who are you talking to? You speak to Sabri Ok. You speak to Murat Karayalan. You speak to Cemil Bayik. Dear friends, look, you have a lot of wheels, but I really congratulate you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0556par0029	Ya Agha, the people congratulated you on November 1st, the people congratulated you on November 1st.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0030	Now, what's he saying? Sir, I know you're not seeing him either. The AKP makes the double roads, the government does the meeting with the PKK, and you don't. Look, when you read Ocalan's journals, you need to blush a little bit; we started reading about your plots to CHP, your plots to CHP.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0556par0031	Yeah, people are slapping you, you still don't get it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0032	There's a lot to say now. Oh, one more thing, before I forget. This ditch, it's a ditch.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0558par0034	The hole, the pit.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0035	Ditch, hole, whatever. Do you know who did that, during the party season?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0559par0037	It's not the pit, it's the pit.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0038	The ditch, the pit, whatever you call it. Do you know what period that was? The AKP wasn't in power, who was? During the single party, those ditchs and pits were opened; you weren't in Iran, you were in Iraq, you weren't in government. [[!]] Guys, you're looking us in the eye and you're saying...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0560par0042	The holes you've dug...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0043	...a ditch, a chamois, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, He's got a heavy machine, he's got a ditch, you don't know.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0561par0044	City hall, city hall.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0562par0045	Keynes did it, Keynes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0047	He lays mines in the center of Iğdır Province, sets bombs, 13 young policemen die; there is no government. Who did it? (CHP mentality) When? During the single party period, during the National Chief period.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0561par0049	Come to Malatiah, to Malatiah.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0050	Tell me that, folks, please, I'm asking you. Now, it's hard on you, but I'm afraid one day you say "terror," and one day you say "PKK."
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0561par0052	Look, the more you talk, the more the HDP laughs.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0053	Now, I'm going to say some things, or should I not say them?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0563par0054	Even the HDP is laughing. Even HDP is laughing, HDP!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0564par0055	We laugh at you, you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0056	Now, look, we know your views on the Imralı, we know your views on the PKK. For God's sake, I'll tell you something: Why don't you say a word negative about Ocalan, why don't you talk about Ocalan?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0563par0057	Even the HDP is laughing at what they say.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0058	You're attacking HDP, you're yelling, and you tell Ocalan. Why are you protecting Ocalan?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0565par0060	You talk, you talk!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0566par0061	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0062	Do not speak to us about Ocalan, for if you speak to us, I will speak too heavily, and you will be overwhelmed. Now, dear friends, look, we haven't been flirting with Ocalan since 28/12/2012, we're not talking, we're not talking, we're not negotiating, we're not negotiating. But, excuse me, I'm sorry, you're not talking to Ocalan, you're talking to the island.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0567par0064	Tell me again, I don't understand: who said Kurdistan at the date?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0065	On November 17, 2013, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. We know very well what the AKP and the UMP Group applauded for our Constitution since 1923, and we've absorbed it. We believe in the secular democratic republic up to all our veins.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0568par0066	Why didn't you get up, why didn't you get up?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0569par0067	How's that for digesting?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0068	Yes, my dear friends, you applauded this, but on November 17, 2013 - Mr. Gökcen Hanım, just so you know -- Recep Tayyip Erdogan said: Don't tease Recep Tayyip Erdogan too much, you know... All right, fellas, let's get you...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0570par0070	What did Ataturk say?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0071	Look, if you're going to continue, I'm happy to continue this discussion.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0571par0072	What did Ataturk say?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0572par0073	Congressmans, please do not interfere.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0074	"We have not met with the terrorist group PKK." he says, "The government has spoken." You say keep going, I'll have to keep going.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0573par0076	Your memory's messed up, your memory!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0077	I sent the friend who was meeting with the PKK." he says. There are talks going on through institutions such as Israel and MIT," he said. he says. Now, for God's sake, there's a Dolmabahçe agreement, would your men sitting at the table in that Dolmabahçe agreement go to the bathroom without knowing Recep Tayyip Erdogan?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0574par0078	There's no such agreement.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0079	There is no agreement." They said. Is it possible, then, that Yalçın Akdoğan, Mahir Ünal, and Recep Tayyip Erdogan, could do anything without knowledge? No way.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0574par0081	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0575par0082	They're both ministers now.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0083	Yeah, he looked at the poll and said, "I don't know the Dolmabahçe agreement." I mean, I can't say they're conscienceless, but they're conscienceless; can this go to Dolmabahçe Palace without having any knowledge of Recep Tayyip Erdogan and show off with HDP MPs?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0574par0084	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0085	Do you believe that? Do you expect us to believe that? You're all aware of all this. Anyway, I don't want to go in any further this time. If you want to talk, I'll talk. [[TALK, TALK, TALK, TALK FROM THE AK PARTY]] I'm going to tell you something, dear friends, a story of success.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0576par0088	Tell the story of the CHP's success!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0577par0089	Congressmans, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0090	I'm going to tell a success story in Malatya, in an introverted city in Anatolia.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0576par0091	Describe a success by CHP.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0092	I'll tell you. Now, there's a success story, and you can brag about it, maybe you can brag about Turkey, because what Malatya is doing reflects on Turkey, and you can brag about it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0578par0094	We founded the 100 million-dollar Institute for Liver Transport.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0095	In a hospital in Malatya, we have a Turgut Özal Medical Center, named after our 2nd President, Turgut Özal, and a university named Ismet Inönul.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0578par0096	We built it, Mr. Veli, we gave the money and built the world's first Liver Transport Institute; that's the story of success.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0097	There, dear friends, unfortunately, someone can't speak about Malatya, they don't know how to speak, they don't know the city. Anyway... A survey has been published recently, and Malatya is the 67th in Turkey. The AKP has also received 67 per cent of the vote. Now, it's a good thing they didn't get 70 percent of the vote, so we'd be 70. This is what the AKP gave Malatya.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0579par0099	Are you going to vote?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0100	But a group of doctors, who founded this university, founded this medical center -- I'm sorry -- founded the liver transplant center -- led by the Conqueror Hilmioğlu, and then by Mr. Cemil Steel, who worked on it, achieved a significant success in Malatya.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0580par0101	Who gave you the money? Did they give you the money?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0102	They did something that no one else in the world could do, couldn't do, became the center of the most liver transplants in the world. I thank you, Professor Sezai Yilmaz, and your friends, who have come to this story of success.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0581par0103	Here's the success story of the AK PARTY, the success story of the AK PARTY. You're singing from this podium.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0551par0104	In addition, some AKP MPs who have been involved in building this liver transplant centre -- perhaps not -- have been working for Omar Faruk Öz., Mujahit Nutsman -- who have been working for the past few years.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0582par0105	They're parallels! Please welcome Minister Cevdet Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0583par0107	You'll thank the government.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0584par0108	And I also congratulate everyone, including Mr. Secretary, who has been working with the late, dear Mevlüt Aslanoglu. It's out of Malatya now, not just a hub for us to brag about, but a hub for Turkey to brag about. It's the second most liver transplants in the world yearly. Of course, the possibilities are important, of course, the physical possibilities are important, but I would like to point out to his professor that all physicians are contributing to this success story from his expert, who has not left Malatya, who has been offered money in a very serious way.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0585par0110	There are no success stories before us, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0584par0111	Dear friends, look, this place doesn't just serve the Malatians. This may provide a very serious foreign currency entry to Turkey in the coming years. And maybe he's on the fast track to becoming the most important health centre in this region. Patients from Azerbaijan, Iraq, Albania, Romania, from various countries around the world come to the University of Inönu, to the Turkut Özal Medical Center, where Sezai Yilmaz and his friends are getting their health back.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0586par0112	Thank your government.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0584par0113	Look, dear friends, I wish we could tell these success stories a lot. However, I would like to say that the service of the AKP in Malatya is limited by the vote taken by the AKP. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Again, my regards to everyone, especially Mr. Secretary, who's been working hard.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0587par0117	I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. As such, negotiations on the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to request that members who can't get into the system ask the technical staff for help, but who can't get into the system, to deliver the ballots to the presidency within three minutes scheduled for the vote. In addition, there are the ministers who will vote as acting minister, whichever minister is going to vote, I request that they pass the vote with the color of the game and its name and name and signature to the presidential office again in three minutes scheduled for the vote, and I begin the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, it is a clear vote that the adoption of additional protocols to the Criminals' Nakline Dair Contract is appropriate: ▪ Used Number of Votes : 212 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin the talks of the European Council's Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the fourth place, in accordance with the European Council's Agreement for Action Against Human Trade. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with 53 rows. On behalf of the National Party's Party for Movement Group, Bursa MP Kadir Koçdemir has asked for a statement on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is twenty minutes, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0588par0142	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all with respect and conversation. Yesterday we had five more martyrs today. At the beginning of my words, I ask God's mercy on our martyrs, my condolences on our nation, and my patience. It's been a rough day. As to these days, there is a long air, which Aysun Gültekin has performed so beautifully, he says in a fourfold: What is this habar? / Sinem gabar gabar gabar. / Part of me ate a wolf bird,/ part of me is a bihabar. (Somewhere in the country there's a life market; there's a struggle to ensure the state's survival of the flag, but the other side is unaware. We hope, we pray that today's martyrs will be the last, and our homeland will be a country like the state, where the law will be enforced, like the state. Today we're negotiating the process of internal law enforcement of international contracts. International contracts -- some of which are very trivial -- include increasing tax compliance through electronic exchange with the United States, increasing trade and other relations with Peru, which have little place in our foreign trade. It has to go through here because this is the Great National Assembly of Turkey. When he doesn't pass through here, there's no response to these contracts in the legal world. On this occasion, I would like to present to you the knowledge of something that is wrongly known in our country, that reduces the confidence of our young people, our children, and the respect of their ancestors. The text we call the Sevr Agreement is not a legal agreement. Because Congress is on vacation when it's signed. He didn't pass the House and was not approved by the Padişah within our legal system that day. It's a text that we can see as a draft of an agreement that wasn't born on the basis of the legal world. But as we look at it, we're here today discussing trade or human trafficking issues with Peru, even if it's a figure, and we're negotiating on them. We pretend we don't know why the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been disabled without ignoring the questions asked in matters that are closely concerned about the state's stay. What was discussed in Oslo? In exchange for the opening of negotiations with the European Union? How does he feel about Cyprus? What is behind the opening of figrity? These don't come here because it's not an official contract, but it affects us, our children, and our grandchildren, more than a lot of the deals we've voted for today. The abduction of foreign policy from the Turkish Grand National Assembly has recently led our country to a serious stalemate. Politics is, in general, but especially the art of bringing together foreign policy, the elements of national power, the harmony of national interests, national goals. The high-value foreign policy that our Prime Minister is bragging about is that if you don't have the power to implement these values, if you don't have the national opportunity, it's just nonsense, it'll do serious damage to you and your country. It's like this: Imagine a system of justice, a law, a right, but a criminal who says he's guilty, but he can't take him and put him in prison, and he can't keep him in prison. What you would call an antiquated foreign policy, if you do not have the power to stand up for it, will do serious damage to the country and to that society, and that is what happens today. I started with the Turk, and we have a song to explain this, and he says, "We brought freedom to some people, we brought some of them to the geography that this history has made normal, but while we've brought them from diplomacy, from the language of diplomacy, from the state position until now, we're the leading country of the great Middle East, we're the regional power." We said, "We're the regional force of the state." We said, "We've brought freedom to some of us, we've brought some of us to freedom, we've brought some of us to the geography that history has made normal, but while we've brought them from diplomacy, from the language of diplomacy, from this time until now, we've gone from our state position, and we can't find a strange point of memory, please tell me, if I can't find it today." The United States has collaborated with Russia once in history, and you know who it's against. He made his second co-operation today against the policies of the Republic of Turkey in our neighbours. We've come up with zero problems, and we've made it a problem because we don't consider this historical buildup. The talks would begin today in Geneva. The Republic of Turkey is the only country whose opinion is not asked to participate. We were bragging, we were deciding, we were doing, that's where we came from. There are other areas, as well as things that we've discussed a lot today. Someone who had no interest in the collection, the collection, threw out something called the lower identity, the whole idea, our whole world, our whole heart. In modern society, today, multi-identification is a reality. I'm a nationalist, I'm an MPP, I'm a Muslim, I'm a Muslim, I'm a Hanefi, I'm a man; all of this is a matter of identity, but it takes a mind to think about hierarchy in identities. Which identity will be subject to which identity? Which identity do we leave before the threat? What kind of a thing is that? But none of the great professors in this country have subculture-top culture, but there is no lower identity, sir. He didn't say, and we came here today because he didn't say. Again, I've said that democracy is a combination of two words; one is a combination of the two words; one is a combination of the two words, and one is a kratos. There's Kratos, there's an autocracy, there's other things that end with it, and it's a community that has a sense of us. It's not a democracy if you can't provide it. The European Union, look, has been on a 60-year adventure; they've lifted its borders, they've gone for the only currency in many countries, they've provided free movement of goods, people. There is a survey that they repeat every six months with the same questions. Somewhere in that survey, they ask, "How do you feel about yourself? You have four choices: 1) I feel Turkish. So let's say it's for Turkey. 2) First I feel Turkish, then European. 3) First I feel European, then Turkish. 4) I only feel European. The ratio of the first two responders to these questions is still over 90 percent, since a common sense of us has not been established. The first reason why the collective sense of us cannot be established is because the language does not speak the same language, so there is no common public opinion. The second reason was that he couldn't do the European Union thing about identity. Today, when you say the European Union's deficit of democracy, it is a victim of a weakness that everyone accepts. There's a German professor named Claus Offe, constitutional lawyer. He has a beautiful expression that says, "No way, if the European Union appeals to him, this application will be rejected before the cover of the case is opened. Because the European Union's own mechanisms are not democratic. Despite what the European Parliament has recently taken, it does not have much authority. Why? Because today, in terms of globalization, the legitimacy of decisions that concern identity, belonging, privacy and co-existence, democracy can only take place within the national state, and there's nowhere else that it can happen. There's no way we can say anti-national state based on division. Today Germany is a federal republic, but when we look at this time from 50 years ago, law enforcement has a way towards the unitary state, and the same is true for America. Now, we have a word for beating garlic in the yoghurt on the plateau. I'm from Orhaneli, we're from the mountains, we've got a saying like that in the Yörüks. The garlic we beat up in the yogurt on the plateau is in our hands, and today we're in a very bad foreign policy situation. Our mistakes in that foreign policy are cutting off our power inside. All we've accomplished is that we've made trouble all over the place. We've shown the success of making America and Russia move together for the second time, if that's a success. So again, if we continue with the song, this Bergama (song) has a song, from 17-25, it has lines that express the deception of the congregation and the present, and it says: I leaned in front of the court/left side of me, I fell, I fell, I fell, I fell, I became an enemy, I was surprised. I'm afraid this is where we came in today. At this point here, I'd like to make another point in these discussions. I read the Constitutional Court's verdict this evening. One of our orator friends here read some things called the conclusion of this decision. The grounds for the Constitutional Court's rejection decision on the incident in Cizre, the basis of the decision, are that the plaintiffs are reluctant to contact the public authorities directly, that they direct the third party to the Constitutional Court, that they give different address information on their whereabouts, and that they are constantly changing locations. That's the news I read. We have the right to be suspicious of the incident in Cizre when even the way a report is reflected here is so different, but it is our right to ask: The state has to act as a state here and clarify this issue which has been going on for seven or eight days, and it has to demonstrate the rule of law, the rule of law. As far as we're concerned, no one's listening. Again, there's a proverb that says that it's not necessary for the Turkish National Assembly to immediately remember the place of our constitutional system of living together, act accordingly, and make decisions, create will, and also ensure the outcome of a mutual interaction. The only thing we care about is that we are a great nation, we solve these issues, but if we're paying $5,000 for a bill that we're going to buy for $5, then we haven't learned from history, and we haven't used the very rich, very precious legacy of living together, the heritage of civilization that we've created so far. Ben says that I wish that this unprovoked environment would quickly end, that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would enter a working environment that would justify its hopes, not only in everyday life as we see today, but in the same way as the laws that do not concern the rest of the nation, but also in the interests of the nation, to discuss and decide here, to begin this process as soon as possible, in the hope that our children, our descendants, will be able to make decisions that make good times for our grandchildren together.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0589par0164	Thank you. In the name of the bands...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0590par0166	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0589par0167	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0590par0168	Now, the speaker said something in the Constitutional Court's decision that there has been a constant change of venue, but we've been given the same address for eight days now when we bring it here, and it's Cizre Jaferi Sadik Street, where it's a basement.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0589par0169	It's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0590par0170	You know, of course, I don't know what that thing is about the Constitutional Court's decision, but as I said, the point we've been talking about for eight days is the same point as Cizre Jaferi Sadik Street.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0589par0171	It's on the record, Mr. Toğrul. The second word on the entire bill is for the groups, on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, and on behalf of Siirt MP Besime Konca. Mr. Konca, come in. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0176	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute you. Mr. President, now that we're talking, you insist on speaking a clean language and warning. That's right, a clean language is used in democratic politics, in a democratic constitution, in an environment that is the Parliament of the people. If our policy isn't a clean policy, if our understanding of government, if our understanding of power is not based on a clean past, if it has no clean tradition, if it has no clean language, it's not easy to express what's happening here, with beautiful sentences, with beautiful concepts, and to be understood. At first, I'd like to point out that this concept is often given a clear language warning. And since there's a lot of pollution in our politics, that's what the words can tell us, so let me start by saying that. Second: Mr. President's warnings about the Constitution have been issued, he said that the concepts of war, the war, the war, the massacre, the genocide, shouldn't be used, and this is the equivalent of the Constitution, Mr. President. But to silence us, or to obey this fascist Constitution, you either showed us that red pamphlet, or the Kenan universe was here. Yeah, you say that, all the parties said that. You know that the military junta, created after the coup of September 12th, is a constitution that has become a constitution. So we don't have to abide by this law anyway, under any circumstances. This Parliament is here to change this Constitution. The majority of us are here today to improve this difference, and we will criticize this Constitution. Since the Constitution needs to change, we will use these words to overcome this constitution, which does not accept the multitude, its peoples, its beliefs, its cultures, its differences, its languages -- concepts that are a crime for the Constitution, as you call them -- and we have to discuss this very broadly. Now, we've had a lot of assessments of our conversations. Mr. AKP Group's deputy group leader said: "Parliament, Parliament, you don't want to run it. If you wanted it to work, you wouldn't have made a motion, you wouldn't have blocked it. Now, that's the last thing we've come to. Let's just say, let's just say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, your subconscious is talking, sometimes some concepts, some of the words you're saying, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, He'll consider it a crime to even make a motion here, and what does it mean to have a sense of power here that we shouldn't even have a motion here, that we don't have to bring it here, that we have a problem, that's a criticism, that's a criticism, that's a criticism? Why are we here? We're going to give the motions to the end, we're going to argue until the end, and we're going to get our say-so; that's why we're here, that's to run Parliament. So this is what happens: let only the AKP bring the laws, the motions, let everyone vote, let Parliament act. This mentality is the expression that you don't understand the Constitution you call it, you have to know it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0592par0180	Your vote will be two?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0181	Because of the environment you have created, we are voting today for two. We will not vote on the non-democratic, non-committal, non-committee, rights, law, justice, free individuals, non-responsive proposals, and we will oppose them to the end, and we will do what we have to do. At least our conscience, at least in politics, will have expressed where we stand, at least what we think, at least that's what we're going to be saying. Mr. President, you're saying there is no Kurdistan. I want to improve this discussion again. MHP and AKP also stood up and applauded Mr. President's statement. It was Erdogan you applauded. Kurdistan, that's what I'm saying. Erdogan said there was a Kurdistan, and we said in all our talks here: Kurdistan is a concept that existed long before the concept of Turkey. We didn't come from Asia Minor with swords on horses; we didn't come to Diyarbakır with swords on horses; we didn't come to Batman, or Urbana, or Elazığ, or Hakkari, or Bitlis on horseback; we didn't come to Bitlis by sword.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0593par0183	Are you from outer space?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0594par0184	What if that happens? There's no source, just some information, read some, please!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0185	He went all the way to Malazgirt, with tens of thousands of soldiers, and contributed to Alparslan, and that's how you went to Anatolia, where you boasted today. Look at historical sources, you know that. Look at historical sources, historians.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0595par0186	Historical sources say different, no such thing. For a thousand years, Turkey has been this Anatolian.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0187	Check archeologists' research, anthropologists' research. Today, Urbana is Batman, today, the center of the history of humanity in Diyarbakir, the history of mankind. The area of life, the transition to settled life, the economy, the production, the development of free life is Mesopotamia and Kurdistan, and the Kurds have never been here. He lived here as one of the most historic, ancient, honorable, most insurgent people in the world.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0596par0188	Where's it written?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0189	Then you need to find out. You guys go find out.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0597par0190	You find out.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0596par0191	Yeah, we've studied them, we've studied them. Read what we've written.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0192	Let's say again that you and those who were before you were the 28th rebellion for the conditions of the exit of the PKK. At the beginning of all 28 of these riots, there are no moats, no barricades. You've slaughtered Kurds 28 times, you've imposed genocide on the Turks 28 times. This concept of genocide does not exist, nor does it, according to the Constitution. Don't use a dirty language, you say. The Constitution may be a crime because this state has done it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0596par0193	Where did you come from, if there was genocide? This bloodline went on, why are you being so unfair?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0194	Then he forbids it through September 12th fascism. It is true when you say that you have taken advantage of the state today. Is it against the Constitution to say such things?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0598par0195	Anti-terrorism...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0596par0196	Yeah, that government already existed.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0197	Aren't you the one who broke the Constitution? Wasn't the Maraş massacre a crime, a genocide, a massacre? Sivas, right?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0596par0198	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0199	There's been some serious massacres in the last 30 or 40 years outside the 28 riots. It wasn't just made for Kurds, it wasn't made for Kurds in the history of this republic. You've imposed these massacres on other ethnicities and other beliefs. We won't hesitate to use these concepts to change that, to overcome this fascist Constitutional mentality. We're going to develop the struggle that is required for those who don't know, for those with reactions or reflexes to overcome it on this platform, on the street, on every form of struggle, on every aspect of our approach; we're going to develop it by writing, by talking, by talking, by doing action and activity, and by politics, we're going to try to improve it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0599par0200	Stop the violence first, stop the violence!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0201	Resolved from violence...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0599par0202	Drop your weapons, drop your weapons!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0203	Look, CHP often says that to use the talks with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) often as blackmail against you, telling you to meet with Mr. Ocalan. The Kurdish movement has made serious efforts to resolve this process for years, from the 1993 Autonomous period to now, with Ozal, with Demirel, with Mr. Necmettin Erbakan, whom you have inherited, and with the politics you represent, they have made very serious sacrifices. There hasn't been a conflict in 15 years, it's been developed. We paid the price for it, we risked the dungeons, we risked being slaughtered in the streets. If you remember, you're experiencing a ditch phobia today, and at one point, there were a lot of children's phobias throwing stones in this House. You put thousands of children in prison. Then you took it out and changed the law: no, that's not how it works. So, why is the kid throwing stones? This mentality, your concepts may change, but your logic, where you look, where you stand, has never changed; we know that there is a singularist, racist, fascist, transformation, time, space, a non-compliant, non-changing reality. But for 30 years, Kurds -- let's say outside these 28 riots -- in each 28 riots, the Kurds have always been based on living with the Turks, fighting for their rights, their cultural identity, their language. If we are to be democratic in the 21 Constitution of Turkey, we must have Kurds. The Ramgiri rebellion is the expression of this. If you haven't read it, if you haven't, let's not say it here, learn it from neutral historians. The Sheikh Sait rebellion, the Dersim uprising, is to protect his rights, his own rule, his own freedom, his own culture, not to slaughter the Turks. The Kurds have lived in this land for thousands of years, not slaughtered, not occupied other lands, not wanted to fight other people, never fought, always peaceful, always at his side, protected, protected, and lived together. You have nothing to say to the Kurdish people, nothing to say to the Turkish people. You say the great nation, but this Parliament does not represent the great nation. At one point he represented the white Turk, the monogamy, the bourgeois, the ruling class, and now he represents the green Turk, and now he represents a new class, a power, a power, a state authority, and he does not represent the people. Our Turkish people and the Kurdish people and their ethnic structures... both Arab and Laz. This Parliament has not shown the democratic reality that society accepts by the way people live, the self - sacrificing union that they accept. In this Parliament, politics are not produced, this is not represented, and I want you to know this, over and over again, to cross this Constitution, to change this Constitution, and to say that we will not do politics according to this Constitution. You often say... not the changing Kurds. What you did to Kurdish politicians in the 1990s, what you did to Orhan Doğan, what you did to Leyla Zana, what you did to Hatip Dicle and his friends today, you have imposed it on us again. We've never changed. You've closed dozens of parties, brought political bans on dozens of politicians. There were no ditchs then, were there? Make a call today, why do you support the moats, and why are you there? We don't say that to support the trenches. Ditches are a consequence. The ditch is not the answer to a problem on its own. It's a reflex developed by humans and a self-defense motive for the massacre you've imposed over the years as a result of the political genocide you've imposed. On its own, the trench is not a danger to Turkey's future and its way of life, but a defense against political operations.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0600par0208	You dug the pits.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0209	You could call it a pit or something. The Ditch is defined like this, and this was done in Islam, and the ditch was dug at the suggestion of an Iranian Selman.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0600par0210	They're the pits, the pits!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0211	And there was a great reason for Islam's development. The idea of one person, the idea of 10 people, the idea of one person, can do a lot of things. Wherever there is fascism, immorality, politics, injustice, remorse, people can defend themselves in every way. Like I said, how many years ago throwing stones at you was a great cause of fear, a reason to change the law, and you put thousands of children in prison, and then you passed the law and changed it. Remember that the process you discussed today will be discussed in a different way tomorrow. Look, today in Taha Akyol's programme, he was in the program where you -- where he worked, where he bleached his hair -- he said that we should learn from this process, and in the process, this Parliament had to co-operate with all parties and have to do something. Instead of sitting here empty, you should've just watched the show to raise your hand. I'm not saying this because he's saying the right thing, but because of your attitude here. He's the oldest, he's experienced; I don't know if he's going to do it right, maybe he's saying that because he's not in these seats.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0601par0213	Stop the violence. First, stop being violent.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0214	He says both the government and the state must learn from the process. Then you need to think, too, that there's something that you need to learn, a different attitude to every word that comes out of our mouth, a situation that you don't have to react to. We want to say it over and over again. The political reality that doesn't care about the public is your reality, because of its changing interests. You didn't pay the price. Look, Mr. Erdogan, because our President Erdogan reads a poem, because he's been in a very short prison, he puts it as a great historical reason. You're proud of it. You didn't pay the price, you didn't see the dungeons, you didn't see the massacres, you didn't see the massacres, you didn't see the massacres, you didn't see the massacres, you didn't see the people who were slaughtered in those 28 riots, you didn't see the people who were filled with gas in the caves, you know, you don't speak. That's what's happening in Cizre today. It's no different than the massacre of Dersim. Human dignity, human life, is not a numerical thing; when thousands, millions of them are killed, we'll call it genocide. Here is genocide, where you stand politically. In the massacres of history in Batman, we slaughtered like rats, filled them with hay, and burned them. The mentality that says, "We left them under the basement today wants to slaughter them." This is the result of your state, the sovereign, the power, the compulsion, the violence; you inherit it, and you have to change it; if you don't, it will cost you history, and the honorable people in history will appear to the public with their foreheads open and their heads raised and their conscience. We say we're going to do it, whether we're murdered or killed or something else, we're going to do it. You're attacking our friend Faysal Yellow Star. Today in the headlines, you are making headlines as the bomber of the PKK. In the 1990s, the press, which you criticised, has supported you today -- the AKP government -- is making the headlines, saying that it was the PKK's bomber. You're saying it's the bomber of the PKK. A will that is chosen by the people of the people shall stand as a star; and he shall stand by his people; and if his people are hungry, he shall be hungry; and if his people are thirsty, he shall stand before his people; and if his people are slain, he shall be before his people. He's not gonna come in here and sit in the seats, looking for rank, money, corruption, theft.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0602par0218	Why are you here, you?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0603par0219	You're in the seat. Why are you sitting on the couch? You took an oath, why are you sitting in that chair? That doesn't make any sense.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0220	I'm not always here. We'll be here, we'll be where we've been. We stay a lot everywhere, every friend stays. Since we're the few here today, the few of us, the few of us, the few of us, are on the side of the people, and we're going to do it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0603par0221	The people aren't on your side.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0222	The people are with us. You're the one who called the Kurdish people's struggle a hundred years old. If it's a hundred years of trouble, because the Kurdish people are always standing where they are, they're always representing themselves because they've given up their leaders, their leadership, and their struggle, and they've come to the point where they'll be able to solve this fight on an international level today, because the Kurdish people, as an honorable people, have come to demand their rights in the 21st century, and their representatives of each era, can change. Today we represent these people. Whoever it was in the 1990s, whoever it was in the 2000s, it's us today, and tomorrow someone else will represent the Kurdish people and solve the Kurdish people's problems. Every society has its differences. Well, then why were you in Turkey as MHP, CHP, AK PARTY or hundreds of parties in the past? Why don't we call you where there's a lot of partying and there's a lot of difference? Why don't you talk, shut up, sit down? Why are you so different? The difference in Kurds is something else. Each Kurdish can make a different demand, each Kurdish can have a different way of thinking. It's one thing to exist by identity, by culture, by history, by geography. That's what we're defending today. There could be a lot of parties to defend it. Today, as a party, HDP, we are the party of all differences, not just a party that advocates the problems of Kurds.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0604par0224	Weren't the Kurds the ones protesting you in Diyarbakir?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0225	We are a party that advocates Turkey's problems, Turkey's democratisation, Turkish people's freedom, democracy, women, Armenians, Assyria, Suryani, and all differences. As a party representing the Kurdish people on its own, we did not identify ourselves as HDP. One thing we do in the name of the Kurdish people is we defend these rights to the end, as an honorable people, as a people in history who have been denied their rights, we fight to the end, and these people will defend it to the end, and they will win and develop it. For that reason, the Kurdish people are with us. We'll develop it. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now, I'd like to say more than that. Today, our President had an explanation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He said: "They are the servants of the terrorist organization. " I will say two things for the concept of "subject": "He is a man who has not enough experience or talent in a certain business."
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0605par0231	Mr. Konca, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0591par0232	He is the one who thinks in a way that is unbecoming to the elders. I feel that he is very well used today because he does not act accordingly as a elder of a country.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0606par0233	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0605par0234	Just a moment, Mr. Botanci. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I'm voting for a transfer to the substances.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0607par0237	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0605par0238	I'll take that under advisement when I vote.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0608par0239	Before that, Mr. President, we have a verbal request, two groups of vice presidents standing.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0605par0240	Now, I've taken a vote. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0609par0242	They raise their hand backstage.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit06spe0605par0243	There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0605par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0610par0002	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0605par0003	Just a moment, Mr. Botanci. The decision to transfer the bill to its materials was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the bill to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume the talks of Bill 53. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Yes, Mr. Bostanci, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0611par0011	You have massacred the Kurds. You are sitting here idle. You have imprisoned thousands of children. Such unjust, false, unacceptable -- my tongue is not meant to say other words. In this frame, I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0605par0012	Mr. Bostanci, we can't make any promises without picking on our break.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0611par0013	Mr. President, but I got up before you took a break.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0605par0014	We definitely need to implement the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0611par0015	You saw me, too.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0605par0016	It's okay. I'm on a mandatory break because there's not enough to decide. And since I'm taking a break, I can't promise anything without teasing, about the incident at the previous hearing. So if you're going to talk at your place, go ahead, I promise.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0612par0017	Explain your balance sheets, how many children are in prison.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0613par0018	Don't talk!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0614par0021	Mr. President, my dear friends, the lady has spoken for 20 minutes, and I'll talk for two minutes; let her be patient, I don't think she's lost her speed. In accordance with the rules of democracy, the people elected and came here with their votes, speaking from the stand, violating the principle that democracy and terrorism, the most fundamental rule to uphold, that democracy and terrorism would never be compatible with, the pits and the tragedy that those pits have created there, the people are defending themselves, building self-management. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] If this mind sees this approach this way, it is responsible for these children who have been aired, honored, and sent to death by the means of democracy, who are here to save the pits of terror and behind those pits of 20-22-year-olds. The hands of those children will be on the side of this politics, the mind that gives them gas, brings them forward, sends them to their deaths like this. Not just those kids, digging holes in there, keeping them pure behind him...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0615par0025	President, isn't it past two minutes? Then let's talk here for a long time.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0616par0026	I'm not going to ask you that, I'm sorry. I know that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0614par0027	...those people who are terrorizing cities, victims of people there, causing them to migrate, this approach, this mind, whatever their identity is, the Kurds, the Turks, whatever those victims are, will be speaking here as a representative of a mind that has committed injustice to the people who migrated in the mud, in the snow. This approach is not the right approach. Democracy and terrorism are not compatible. Democracy and the pit are incompatible. You're creating self-government with democracy, so go ahead. An approach that says, "A understanding is incompatible in no way." You have to be responsible. Turkish and Kurdish brotherhood are not provided with such an approach. Each occasion you will act consciously in the background of the Turks and Kurds as if they were enemies to each other, making a massacre. You killed Kurdish babies. You're enemies of the Kurds. You're going to say, "You're enemies of the people," and then you're going to talk about the brotherhood of the people.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0616par0030	Mr. Botanci, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0614par0031	Mr. President, brotherhood is not easy to build. In the future of this country, the language, the brotherhood, the closeness, the unity, the joint will, cannot be hostile to every means, to every suggestion. The Kurds and Turks can't form a brotherhood that is hostile even to the word "toenail" and is hostile to historical partnership, and is hostile to all kinds of similarities, and tells the Kurds and Turks like two nations on different sides of the universe, but despite this approach, the Kurds and Turks will form this brotherhood. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0616par0034	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0617par0036	I asked for a say.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0616par0037	There are some who wish to speak before you, Mrs. Besime. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0618par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. The speaker who just spoke on the stand has made some accusations against the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation. Of course, because there are so many of them, these are not things that can be evaluated in such a few minutes. Our speakers will consider the details of these as they come in. Of course, most of the time, it's just a sequence of ideological and divisive rhymes. It could also be called a repeat of some of the long-standing rhetorics of a number of terrorist ringleaders. The Constitution has been used in hostile terms against Turkey and the Turkish nation. It's false statements that ignore political and legal facts. We reject these statements that make Turkey and the Turkish nation an intruder, ignoring the Turkish nation and the reality of Turkey. It's meant to be a constant rhyme... by some people. It is very interesting that you should stop saying the smallest words to PKK massacres, attacks, supporters, alibis, coverts, genocides, talk about the massacres of PKK, Hhçak, Taşnak. If there is to be an account, the account must be given, and ethnic obsessions must be removed. That's all I have to say for now, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0619par0046	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Special, you're up.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0620par0049	Mr. President, in particular, actually, my first word is about procedure. Now, we believe you're trying to have the right government. It is clear that the Civil Code did not answer the right to answer in the next session when the session was adjourned, but it is necessary to look at it as an internal law made by Parliament. The arguments were going on, and you couldn't stop, and there was noise. If you take a break for that reason, you must, of course, promise not to rekindle that argument again because it is your intention to end it. But when the ruling party and the main opposition party's deputy leaders stand up and ask for a speech, if at that moment you started a disorientation by the fatigue of the day and took a break as a result of the lack of decision-making, then you did not get the rights to answer, then a savings is not in line with the main purpose of the Civil Law and the lawmaker. Therefore, in such cases, you could not find the number of decisions enough, even though the session was changed, I give you the right, since I have no intention of ending this discussion. No one would object. The application that you've uncovered will be an example of the following practices, and it will be the right practice. So it's not right to make a promise of our place, create a new app or something. I'd like to underline that once in a while. Now, of course, it would be more appropriate to answer from the bench, but the speaker from the People's Democratic Party said that the Republican People's Party had committed genocide in 1938 or something.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0619par0052	Let's complete it, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0620par0053	Yeah, yeah. I'm starting, sir, and I'm not finishing, and I'm starting. In 1938, he said, "I am a thief." The prime minister of the era said the current president said so. Then, saying that he had joined the group, in fact our country, our people, everyone living in Turkey, he made a very serious taunt. First of all, I want him to know that he's going to witness it, and they might even try it themselves next week: the Republican People's Party Group has offered several times to set up a research commission to investigate the events that took place at Dersim. Each time the ruling party rejected it by majority votes. The leaders of the ruling party chose to oppose Congress's investigation and make it an object of abuse in the rally squares. Bring it tomorrow, we'll vote right here, we'll see the ruling party's attitude again. Whatever happened in the past, the Republican People's Party didn't say or say anything about the scientific investigation, the historical events being investigated by historians and under the roof of this great Parliament. At that time, the Republican People's Party is well aware of Ataturk's feelings about the matter and feels it in its own relationships. Also, there's one thing the Justice and Development Party has done a lot of things, Deputy, such as the account of corruption claims in the chest, he says: After December 17th-25 there was a local election, you see, we've answered for it. You've done something similar today, you've shown 80-90 per cent in Şırnak, saying that the will of the People of Şırnak is in your direction, not of the Justice and Development Party, not of power. This is the last party to be blamed for the Republican People's Party Lesson issue, if this proposal and the method of getting results from this proposal were to be adopted, where we received close to 70 per cent of the vote in the 2011 elections, where we removed one of the two MPs in these elections. But we didn't reckon on December 17th or 25th, like the AKP. Nor do we show the vote in Şırnak, and emphasize another situation, and say, "If there is to be a study of events, let's investigate it together."
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0621par0057	Let's complete it, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0620par0058	I'm finishing it now. If the Republican People's Party is going to deal with Derim, it's going to face it. We've made the 4th son of a poor family with seven learned children the President of the United States, and I'm proud to say so. The ruling party, which is in this room and exploits the subject and is willing to change the country's regime on its own terms, sees where it's worthy of its academics, what promotions, and I present it to the public.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0621par0060	Yes, Mr. Special. Now, on behalf of the group that I'm going to promise you, Mr. Private, I have to explain something. Of course, the default comes out when there are no Civil Code provisions, and we can't start a new procedure where there's a clear norm. Therefore, Article 69 has made it very clear that for explanations and answers, the president appreciates the time to make a commitment to be in the same session. Therefore, because there was no session, because the session had changed, we could not take a break. Or else I'll give it to all of you, you know. Yes, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Konca. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0622par0066	Mr. President, the speakers of all three parties have evaluated my speech. In particular, Mr. Minister of the AKP Group, he said it was false information to take thousands of children to prison. Ask the Justice Department to get the data. He can take care of what's happened over the years, and even now he's in over 2,000 children's prisons.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0623par0067	Over 6,000 children are in Kandil.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0622par0068	Half of these reasons are very different. I've also shown you the story of the children who threw stones before. Thousands, not lies. Second, Mr. Secretary of the MHP Group has considered it a challenge to the Constitution. The Constitution defies... if it considers not accepting and criticizing the constitution of coups a challenge, I think it should be challenged. And also, not just we, but I'm going to illustrate this again, today, Mr. President, we've been directed with imported goods, we've taken the constitutions from outside, we want the national and domestic constitution, we'll improve it. Yes, our sentences can be different, everyone can say something different, can be criticized in a different language. The existing Constitution must be changed. Do you do more fascists, do you do more democrats, and each party develops its right opinion, its project, its proposal, by arguing. Another thought: As I have pointed out, every society, every individual, has ideological, political thoughts. I didn't say it based on ideology, I gave archaeological examples, anthropological examples. Look at your own encyclopedias, where you can find information about Kurdish and Kurdistan despite censorship. By talking about 28 riots, the ditch is the result today, the ditch itself is not a resistance, it's not a self-government, it's a defense point because of what people are going through, and it's a stone example...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0624par0072	Let's finish, Mr. Konca.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0622par0073	I will, yes. I said it was a result of 28 riots, one hundred and fifty years of history. I said that because I didn't have time. I stand by my ideas for this, and we're going to rephrase them, and we're going to argue about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0625par0079	I'm reading article one: DRAFT CONTINUES TO THE CONTROL OF THE CONTRACTION OF MAN'S CONTROL The European Council's Action Convention on Human Trade, signed on March 19, 2009 on behalf of the Republic of Turkey, was approved with a statement. İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem has asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 1. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0626par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, we have two martyrs in Sur and Cizre again today. I wish God's mercy on our martyrs, patience on their families, and the very head of our great Turkish nation. Now, the point, of course, is that he's always going through the wrong thing, and I think that's where the trouble comes from. Yes, it's been very wrong, so far, in the beginning of these mistakes... what did we say as the National Movement Party? The solution is dissolution. We said, "The solution is betrayal." And we kept saying that this process shouldn't happen. And at the point where we're here today, I'm sure our fellow lawmakers here can see how this process has led us to the wrong path. Now, I would like to begin by repeating the words of our leader, Mr. State Gardener. Not far, near our southern border, just opposite the plateau, there is Mount Turkmen, and it burns, and it bleeds, and there is a part of us that collapses along with every Turkmen who falls into the ground. We are dying in Kerkuk, we are shot in Tuzhurmatatu, we are bombed from land and air in Bayır Bucak, and the Turkmen are dying. I pray for God's mercy to our Turkmen brothers who have closed their eyes to life. Our support and prayers are unconditionally our Turkmen brothers. Yes, Mount Turkmen is the place where the ears hear and the eyes see, but the consciences are silent. Yes, in history, some people shut up and some people die to support their relatives. May the Lord bless and praise Turkmen. I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group to approve the Council of Europe's Convention on Action Against Human Trade. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is actually very important, but we haven't had any conversation about it. I'd like to get into that a little bit. Human trafficking, forced labor, service, prostitution, giving out body parts. Human trafficking, by force or by threat of use of force, means kidnapping, deception, deception, abuse of influence, bringing people into the country by exploiting or convincing them of their desperation, driving them out of the country, kidnapping, driving them out of the country, or harboring them. Human trafficking is the trade of individuals. Human trafficking is a crime against humans, a violation of human rights, and one of the fastest growing international criminal sectors. It has been a long time since slavery was banned in the world, yet mankind's desire to enslave and exploit other people has not ended. In our country, during the ruling party period, human trafficking has been fought on paper for thirteen years, it has been said that relevant international contracts have been signed, legal arrangements have been made. It's also been focused on training for security forces and judicial members and the creation of a victim support system, but that's not the case when we land on the field. What about the factors that lead to human trafficking? In his country, countries facing poverty, unemployment, women's social and economic inequality, lack of education, domestic violence, gender-based discrimination, inequality of opportunity, civil wars and many other problems have sought the solution in human trafficking mafias by running away from their country. It's not very pleasant today, given our country. We understand this primarily from statistics published by various institutions that are inconsistencies. It is also one of the clear indicators that there has been no study of official figures in recent years. This makes it clear that the government does not follow a complete policy on fighting human trafficking and does not fight it as it should. Innocent people who have lost their lives, their futures, their possessions, their families are paying the price for the government's failure to follow the right policy on this matter. It also endangers the daily lives and security of locals who live on the smuggling route. In the face of these wrong policies of the ruling party, the human trafficking mafia has become more and more arrogant and unresolved. But as the National Movement Party, we are aware of the importance of this issue. It's our duty to find a solution to our nation's problems. Another event involving transferring victims of crime from one place to another is immigration trafficking. Look, Turkey has 160 land, air, sea and iron border crossings in total. Thousands of immigrants enter Turkey each year in legal or illegal ways from these borders. While part of the migrants remain in Turkey, most of them seek the ways of immigrants to Europe. In the hope of a better life, thousands of people use illegal methods each year. In illegal immigration smuggling, which has become a worldwide sector, the amount returned in a year is estimated to be $40 billion. About 10 billion dollars are returned in Turkey. In both of these types of crimes, the main goal of criminals is to gain illegal material gains from victims, which means exploiting the victim, and these crimes by organised crime groups form a huge rant. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, boats and boats that hundreds of people get stuck in and out into dark waters can suddenly be the end of them. Moreover, the number of these painful examples has increased exponentially in recent days. The boats where 700-800 people are sinking, hundreds of lives disappearing without saying "woman child." Almost every day, newspaper and television news contains sad stories of immigrants caught or killed at sea. Coast Guard teams collect bodies from the seas, searching for immigrants who have disappeared for days, and our seas have turned into human graves. Not only by sea, but also by land, immigrants are victims of human traffickers, refugees traveling in truck safes, closed containers, 50 deaths, 70 deaths from lack of air. Every day, dozens, hundreds of people's sad eyes close in dark waters, closed safes, while the ruling party continues and continues its quest for solutions. I'm sure it hurts you as much as it hurts me. As the National Movement Party, the development of policies aimed at securing the peace and prosperity of the nation is our primary goal and priority. We have an understanding of a heart campaign by embracing every human being as a holy being and as a trust, and by gaining their hearts, their love, and their respect. I'd like to end my conversation about human trafficking with an incident. I am the enemy of three people on the Day of Resurrection. I am the enemy of one who broke his promise, and one who bought a free person's money and then did not pay him his due on the Day of Resurrection. I salute the High Council, thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0627par0103	The second word for groups on the 1st article is Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0628par0107	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, I think my friends -- I couldn't watch them all, but -- have made very detailed assessments of the situation in Cizre. But I've got a lot of new data coming in, and frankly, I'd like to share them. And I'd like to share a little bit of history with you because some of the issues are new. Dear friends, I mean, it's a very serious issue in Turkey, we're discussing the historical background of the Kurdish issue very heavily. There is no doubt that it is possible to discuss this in ten minutes, but there is one issue that almost Turkey has agreed on over an important part of the public, which is that the coup of September 12th, the September 12th applications, were the basis of the PKK. High-ranking officials in the government said so on time, as did the ministers. Number 5. The dungeon, where crimes against humanity have really turned into a rebellion, and so far it's been going on. But something is happening right now that six months of violence, persecution, killings, practices are building up enough anger to cause ten riots more than September 12th. We see it from the field, we live, and we share it with you as representatives of the people. At this moment, in a basement, a basement called the disaster basement, it almost proves the power of the state in Cizre. I'm putting aside the argument about whether he's a civilian or not living there with bombs, tanks, there's some kind of proof of power through man. It's really not that easy to make sense of. Not to those there, but to a whole community. All of Turkey, the people in that basement, the persecution and violence and violence of those who are dying, are being done to terrorize the entire community -- so, I don't know how we're going to judge it differently -- and it's being brought to society. Currently, an important part of Turkey's society, despite all prohibitions, is actually closely monitoring and knowing what happened in Cizre. All the doors -- I've been on the map for three days -- are turning into a wall during the top-level hours of negotiations at the ministry. It's such an effort. Really, we need to discuss 11 times a day when the ambulance has to get within 100 yards of the injured home and then come back from there. What's going on? What's going on in there? Without a sound, an ambulance is leaving with the government, with the authorities, with the Ministry of Interior officials, and as soon as the ambulance leaves, there are tanks, cannons. I assure you, today, I've been on the phone for three hours, listening to those tanks, and then the ambulance is coming back. We're putting that as a question. In fact, right now, people are dying, people are dying, but in Turkey, conscience, facts and ethics are dying, morality is dying. I mean, we're gonna have to look at it this way. The truth about ambulances leaving is not reflected, but we are trying to reflect the truth. You may not believe this, but we're telling it the way it really is. I'm trying to tell what happened in there in three days, because of the delegation I'm on, as much as I've seen before, but what we've been going through for the past two or three days is this: You know, a rhyme like that. Go to the ambulance, bring it. They say, "Go to the ambulance." They say, "The bombing starts there and we can't do it, we can't achieve it." The last attempt we made today was at five o'clock, and it failed again at five o'clock. These Byzantine games need to be stopped. Really, I'm going to announce their names in a moment when they're already taken, their CVs, their birthplaces, their birth dates, how old they are, their names, their last names, they'll all be revealed. If there's a crime they committed, if they're alleged -- we don't know what they're claiming -- they've got prosecutors, judges, judges, judges in this country; they've got the necessary investigations, and if they do, the consequences will already come out. We're talking about life here, which identity, what they are, if you'll notice, we're not making a claim. The information we have is that they're all civilians. If there's anything different, it'll take 112 anyway, where they'll be treated with IDs. So, they reached out to us today, and one of the people who lived in that basement reached out to me, and he just called, and I gave it to my friend. Let me show you the photos first, they were reflected today, these photos were sent today. I really haven't been able to look at it yet, I assure you, so it doesn't make me very happy to show it to you. And then we asked for their names, and we said, "Who's there, how old is he?" We couldn't get their age anymore, and the phone was so uncomfortable because, you know, there's no reception, there's no good reception, there's every once in a while, and they gave us as many names as possible. And I'm actually giving you this list for the record, because these names -- we keep talking to one person, we talk to one person, and they don't talk to each other, because the bombing keeps going on and on, and we're listening to them on the phone every now and then -- we're stuck in the basement right now.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0629par0112	It wasn't!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0628par0113	I said it doesn't work from time to time. I said it doesn't. I didn't say it doesn't. I said it doesn't. I'll contradict myself. And these names are of those 16 people who are wounded, or two, who are unconscious, who I will read from: Mehmet Yavuzel, Feride Yıldız, Ferhat Saltikat, Ali Firat Tetorah, Mustafa Vartiyak, Mustafa Aslan, Tahir Cicek, Rıdvan Ekci, Dersim Aksayir, Islam, Serhat Karaduman, Sultan Yağrat, Sercan Uğur, Rohat Aktaş, Fehmi Dinç. These are the wounded, two of them are unconscious, and there are nine who are slightly injured. That's how we knew it was 28, not 28, but 31 today.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0630par0115	There were some of you who said, "22, 24, 26"
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0628par0116	I said 28 from day one, but since we got the names, I'm pretty clear, we got them from them.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0631par0117	Did they come from other tunnels?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0628par0118	Hacer Aslan, Gülistan Supreme, Sakine Shiray, Berjin Demirkaya, Ramadan Laborer, Mahmut Listener, Kasım Yana, Osman Gökhan and Izet Gündüz. There's six...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0632par0119	Ms. Meral, why did they go there? Why are they there, and they're not related? The people who were independent of each other went out for tea?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0628par0120	Let's talk about this once in a while. There's six deaths, there's a funeral, and they're in the same place as the funeral. These names have already been announced by us, as well as by the press, so we've announced them. In the event that these names have been bombed in the slightest, death by the attack, the responsibility belongs to the government. As of this hour, we know very well that they're alive, that they're there, because we're on the phone all the time. We've had phone contact today, and I'm just saying that to get it into the House's transcripts. Tomorrow we'll meet with them at seven o'clock in the morning through the Ministry of Interior again, through Şırnak Governorate and through two of the city's ambulances, and we'll follow up. Hopefully, tomorrow it'll be over, safe and sound...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0633par0122	Why would the city...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0628par0123	112 doesn't go because, unfortunately, it doesn't. He waits at 112 Four Roads, not one step further than the Four Roads.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0633par0124	Who's there and isn't going to save him?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0628par0125	I've been on the phone for two days, three days, eight hours, I think I know.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0634par0126	We're asking for 112.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0628par0127	It will be delivered to 112, and then... we hope that this matter will be resolved by noon tomorrow, which will be treated and done.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0635par0128	The PKK doesn't want to be delivered, to use it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0628par0129	I thank you, all of you, and I thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0636par0131	The last word for groups on Article 1 of the Republic People's Party Group is this, on behalf of Giuseppe MP Haydar Akar. Here you are, Mr. Akar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've had ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0637par0135	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers shared certain things with you here about an hour ago, sharing with you the date of which the first Kurdistan was used by whom, immediately after sharing the Dolmabahçe agreement. When Dolmabahçe shared his agreement, they stood up from the AKP Group again, and said out loud, "This is not true." They said, "The Dolmabahçe agreement is not known by Recep Tayyip Erdoğan." But God doesn't have a stick!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0638par0136	God has a stick, he keeps hitting CHP's head!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0639par0137	You're the manager.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0637par0138	He's showing his presence in some way, and that's what he showed me tonight. You may have missed it, but your precious elder is on TV tonight, and your dear brother is on TV tonight...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0640par0139	Read what you're saying!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0637par0140	While you're bending and bending here, pretending that it didn't happen, while you're here, denying everything...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0640par0141	Read what you're saying!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0637par0142	...he began to explain the Currency in The Truth.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0640par0143	I think so. He says so.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0641par0144	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0637par0145	Now, look, what says Arinc, your dear brother Mr. Arinc: I know President Erdogan knows about the Dolmabahçe agreement.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0642par0146	I'm guessing he might know. He says.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0637par0147	Again, the solution process must be changed and the dissertation will be launched from tomorrow. If there are no actors outside the HDP, we need to strengthen it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0642par0148	I'm guessing he knows. He says.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0637par0149	It doesn't end with this, it continues to comment on current issues, it continues to comment on current issues.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0642par0150	I'm guessing he knows. He says. That's his guess. That's his statement.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0637par0151	There you go again, yelling, but I suggest you hear the truth from him.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0643par0152	Congressmans, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0637par0153	He says: "I am connecting with the president's statements and other issues, that there is no way for him to be arrested or punished for such a crime." This is a situation in which judgment has been brought down or brought down. You have to get rid of it. He says Mr. Arinc is on TV tonight.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0644par0154	What does Muharrem Ence say?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0637par0155	My advice to you is, if you can't watch tonight, I suggest you watch this program tomorrow. Moving on, it's not over. Arinc says the government should run foreign policy with the Parliament, but there is no foreign policy by emasculating at the Meydan rallies.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0644par0156	What does Muharrem İnce say about Kilicdaroğlu?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0637par0157	Don't talk too much, come talk here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0644par0158	Muharrem İnce, what does he say of Kılıçdaroğlu?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0637par0159	With praise, history becomes poetry, politics does not exist.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0645par0160	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0637par0161	You'll walk out like lions, and you'll be able to pick up notes at any moment, he says. This note, of course, says here it's being used metaphorically, you could get slapped and slapped at any moment.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0646par0162	Ask Muharrem Encel.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0637par0163	When you look at Turkish foreign policy today, we see together what kind of slaps and slaps you're getting.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0646par0164	Let him tell you about the ditch, Kılıçdaroglu.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0647par0165	My friend, until yesterday you were buttoning the jacket in front of him, calling him brother, and that's your brother.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0646par0166	Why are you talking from there?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0647par0167	Until yesterday, he's still your party manager.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0646par0168	Why are you talking, he's lying!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0648par0169	Moving on, guys, you don't have to yell, you don't have to yell. The process of the solution must begin by changing its name from tomorrow. Former Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc answers questions by CNN Türk on the air. That's not how it ends, he says. It means the process has to move forward with the lessons we've learned. Moving on. We're talking inside of ourselves. It refers to the congregation, to the banks, to the trustees you have seized. He says the money is good in order to make us trustees. Be wise, and keep my word, and they write words like my pats on the back. We kind of know who they are. There are vultures who can make sense out of today's talks. They tell them about your famous trolls.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0649par0170	He's telling you, he's telling you...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0648par0171	And then it goes on. They call their women trolls in our community.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0650par0172	We just heard.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0648par0173	Yeah, well, we've started learning new terms, thanks to Mr. Arinc. Of course, since these are in your fictions, I think you know them. There are so many cases under the scope of the parallel war that I want to put the robe back on. These are teachers from the school; they are being tried for membership in an armed terrorist organization because Bank has invested money in Asia. The government should run foreign policy with the Parliament, I repeat. Look, he says that your acceptances are wrong and you need to take a bold stand. Look, he says that your acceptances are wrong and take a bold stand. I made the talks with Israel and it was not signed, he says. We need it as much as Israel needs it. he says. Who says that? Recep Erdogan. Yes, I'm reading the statements of Bkent Arinc. I said that four years ago. One of the first to know the state of Israel is Turkey. We need a foreign policy opening. There's no foreign policy when you're a eunuch at a square rally. No history, no poetry, no politics. If you get caught up in Hamasete and come out like lions, you'll be able to pick up notes any minute. Look, there are still 2 million Syrian refugees in our country." Says Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0651par0176	I wonder what you enjoy reading these things here. What's your pleasure in reading these here?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0652par0177	Reading means no politics. Don't be a reader! If that were the case...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0648par0178	I'll be here with a religious reference that you always give me, and then I'll be able to tell you what you need to do, what you need to think, and then I'll move on to something else. Watch out, look, I'm reading something. Listen to this. Do not let the life of this world deceive you, nor let the Deluder deceive you about Allah." Says Lokman, verse 33. I'm not going to tell you any more about this. Again, I'm going to move on to something that you've just had an apocalypse. When you're called the Ditch, there's an apocalypse here, and you're back here, making Assad, just like you did, the ditch. Why are you making chocolate? Isn't that the ditch over there? You've been saying that here for days. Now, I don't know why you're back in the gutter. Now, are you making a connection? But we don't only remember that terrorist organizations dug trenches because of that Ditch War, it wasn't a terrorist organization because it was a war, but the terrorist groups used the ditch methods that started with the IRA. That's the way it's been used today. Now, do you ever turn around and look back while you're yelling at them, and see where we went wrong? Where were you when the terrorists opened these trenches? You're claiming we've been running this country for ten years. We've increased the country's added value. We've increased the per cent of the profits. It's all bullshit, we can talk a lot, but why didn't you see it? Who's gonna see this? What country did you run when you were doing this? I'm curious, where were you? Now, the ditch is being dug, the mines are being mined, the cables are being pulled, the big business machines are working, and it's being praised from the newspaper, from the headlines to Ocalan. On the other hand, the great statesman status is being raised by your fellow writers. Where were you when all this was being done?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0653par0182	If a leaf moves in the Middle East, they'll know!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0648par0183	Look, you'll think about it, we've made mistakes in them. You'll say, "That's our mistakes." You'll say, "That's our mistakes." What did you do wrong? You've cleared that area. You've eliminated government domination, state sovereignty. No terrorist organisation or terrorist organization in the world has done anything other than what the law and the Constitution ordered when they met with terrorist organisations. They've taken their precautions; if there's a crime, if there's an illegality, they've taken precautions. When you were clearing the area, don't touch the governor. When you said, "Don't touch the gendarme." When you said, "Don't touch the police." When you said "Don't touch the police," they were carrying weapons that were dropped to Syria because of your wrong foreign policy. Where was your eye? Where were you when they were carrying the guns? Where were you when they were teaching the city war, teaching the cities how to fight, giving their staff, terrorists urban warfare training, providing logistical support, while they were stockpiling weapons?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0654par0185	Why do you have a peace rally with HDP when you touch it?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0648par0186	Where were you?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0654par0187	Why do you have a peace rally when you touch it?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0648par0188	I'll call in another bomb today. Do you know where you are?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0654par0189	If he doesn't touch it, it's like this!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0648par0190	You are now sending these poor children, the children of poor citizens to Tyre, Silopi, southeast...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0654par0191	Pass him!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0648par0192	...in the event of their deaths, your congressman friend's police brother, the Director of Youth and Sports, friends.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0654par0193	Republican People's Republican People's Party (HDP).
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0648par0194	What's the police doing with your brother in the security department? Sports manager does it, sports manager does it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0654par0195	Who did you have the peace rally with?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0648par0196	Shall I give you your name? You all know that, don't you? Come on, tell this friend of yours to send his brother, that cop brother of yours over there. Why are you taking the poor kids away? Yesterday, again, Veli Ağbaba showed a picture of our brothers and sisters who were martyrs in the palace. Aren't you ashamed of it? Aren't any of you going to come out and say anything to Shamil Tayyar?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0655par0198	Yeah, don't be rude! It's low!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0656par0199	Republican People's Republican People's Party (HDP).
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0648par0200	Aren't you going to tell me?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0656par0201	Come and tell it in the Black Sea. You speak separately here, you speak separately in the Black Sea.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0648par0202	You're not going to yell like that now, but you're not going to.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0656par0203	He was good at the peace rally! He was good when he walked with the HDP!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0648par0204	We've said over and over again that the solution process has been mismanaged, and we've told them how to do it, but...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0656par0205	Is it not Kılıçdaroglu who says, "Don't let the PKK lay down arms?"
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0648par0206	Tell me these stories, tell me stories, keep deceiving people with God, and stop dividing this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0656par0209	Your vote falls for him. The cheater is you. You speak separately, in the Black Sea.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0657par0210	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0658par0211	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0659par0212	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0660par0213	If a leaf moves in the Middle East, we'll know about it. You don't know Diyarbakır, you don't know Diyarbakır. Leave the Middle East, you don't know your own country.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0661par0214	Sit down. This nation sees CHP.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0660par0215	They've loaded a bomb on the wall, you're talking about the Middle East.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0661par0216	And when you touch it, it's a peace rally.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0662par0217	Congressmans, one moment. Mr. Botanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0663par0219	As he was finishing his speech, the speaker said, "To deceive people with God." He said, "You send the children ofGariban to Tyre, Cleopatra, and cause them to die." This is an open taunt. In this frame, from 69...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0662par0220	Please, Mr. Bostanci, don't be more than two minutes. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0663par0225	Mr. President, dear friends, I wish it were possible to resolve social and political matters in this military tone, in this tone of voice of Haydar Bey, such as the Kurdish issue.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0664par0226	That's the minimum tone, if he wanted to...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0663par0227	But these issues require subtle approaches, and basically Haydar Bey's way of speaking, the mind, the approach to solving these issues, politics, are not related to them. Mr. Haydar has remained critical of what has been done, and with that head, he will be his position from now on.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0665par0229	Way to go, Hodja.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0663par0230	Because it's not possible for this nation to call this approach yours. Our people know what to do, and they're acting in that direction. In order to solve the Kurdish issue, the EC PARTI is trying to use both the possibilities of democracy, freedom, political legitimacy, and if you're going to form a union based on consent -- on the other hand, if there's a dirty act of terrorism against this country, the poor, the rich -- everyone in this country will surely curse it, and the security officers will certainly do it. If you were in power, you'd do the same. He quoted Mr. Arinc. I wish he'd quote all the speeches of Mr. Arinc. But he did it by choice, he did it his way. Let's not forget, Mr. Arinc, in 2002, the AK PARTI, who was in charge of important tasks in the AK PARTI, who continued these tasks until 2015, with your gaze... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] A man who shares everything with his sin. I pay my respects. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With such a political approach, a political approach to the AK PARTI today that seems to be a little distant from the words of a person who seems to have...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0666par0238	It's pathetic.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0667par0239	It's weakness, weakness.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0663par0240	...it's not right but it's not right and it's wrong.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0668par0242	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0669par0244	I guess I don't have to tell you anything.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0668par0245	I still have to ask.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0669par0246	It's an insulting speech.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0668par0247	So I have to ask what's in it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0669par0248	In his military voice, he said, "It's not in his mind."
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0670par0249	He's talking about taunting himself, our right to the group is ruined.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0669par0250	Yeah, it's personal...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0671par0251	I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0669par0253	Congressmans, I've shared with you the words of a brother of yours, whom you value so much to make a self-reportation, which he made on the air this evening, which he had spoken about. Of course, they shouted out loud and loud from the AKP Group, because they've been out of their habit of listening lately, and if it wasn't for this thing, I'd be able to tell you in the right manner, Hajji.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0672par0254	Mr. Haydar, we'd listen to you, but...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0669par0255	Also, I have a lot of suggestions on this, and I'll share them with you, if you like, one of the things I know best is that we sit down with you about how terrorist organizations around the world do peace processes, how they sit at the table, or how they end up. But don't forget that we...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0672par0257	I'd like to share it with everyone, Mr. Haydar.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0669par0258	Remember, as the Republican People's Party, when Recep Tayyip Erdogan was Prime Minister, we are going to start the process of solutions -- the process we later changed its name as a process of resolving -- when he said...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0672par0259	There's never been a Kandil process.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0669par0260	...Mr. President, we don't think the direction is right, but we all know what you're saying, and we've told you over and over again how this matter should be resolved. We've expressed parliament, we've expressed transparency, we've expressed mental steps, but instead of using you, smart men, terrorists or the head of terrorists, you used it to convince the citizen, use it to draw security forces from the field. Now you need to see these mistakes, you need to make your own criticism. You're not making self-criticism.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0673par0261	Neither do you! Do the self-criticism first!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0669par0262	You think everything you've done in the past is right. If everything you've done in the past had been right, neither the HDP Group nor the AKP Group would use this language today on this stand.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0673par0263	What language did you use now?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0669par0264	If what you did were true in the past, today our children, our police, our soldiers, our young saplings would not have been martyrs there. He says if you had really done your own criticism, the country wouldn't have come to the point of division today because of you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0674par0266	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0675par0267	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0674par0268	Mr. Haydar responded to the abuse of his own self because his direct name was mentioned and he was involved in personality. But I want to respond to the bullying of our group by saying this is political understanding.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0676par0269	No, it's not about the band.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0675par0270	Mr. Special, I'll give you two minutes, but let's make sure we don't take another look.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0674par0271	No.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0675par0272	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0674par0274	Thank you very much. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Knowing the Civil Code, knowing the rights of the group and members of your group from the Civil Charter is not a flaw, not a flaw. That's my job, so don't bother. But I'll tell you what. I listened very carefully. An old political friend, who is now a little bit of distance, is the self-criticism there, and so on and so forth, I read carefully between the lines there, but there is another thing I read at the presentation of the Ministry of Sports: the current political friend, the MP of June 7 of June, the architect of the attack on a newspaper, the summoner, and the Deputy Minister of Sports. Blessed be the Lord! But a little while ago, you're all following him. Bulent Arinc tells him that Abdurrahim Boyukalın, when his interests are over, protect us from the people who turn their backs on all the authorities he owes to his companion.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0677par0278	How nice...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0674par0279	There's one more line, Mr. Group Vice President, right here, right here. At the moment, Mr. Arinc described the fact that Mr. Arinc was not part of the ruling party in the AK PARTİ, the AKP as an end-of-the-manfaati situation, when his menfaati was finished...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0678par0280	Did he give a name?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0674par0281	You claim otherwise. This seat is open to you. And he also said about all the authorities he's been in before: I mean, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who he owes to his companion, who he owes all the duties he's taken on, the honorable, the honorable, the honorable, the honorable -- we're all competing for him, and I want to be a deputy prime minister -- he's describing all of them as someone we owe to.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0679par0283	You're gonna have to change parties for this.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0674par0284	Mr. Secretary, appreciate that seat. Be aware of the honor of that chair. But hopefully, no one behind you will say that you owe that seat to someone. This debt is only to the Turkish nation, the voters. My respects.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit07spe0680par0287	Yeah. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0680par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 53. The commission is here. The government is here. Now, I'm going to read the 2nd article: MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mus MP Ahmet Yıldırım wants to speak on the matter. Mr. Lightning, please. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0681par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I salute you with love and respect at this hour of the day, the esteemed MPs and the esteemed laborers of our House. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, especially not what we've been saying in the last few days and weeks of our friends from our party, but what we've been saying for weeks isn't something we're very happy to say. We have nothing but to draw attention to a social injury, to the consciences, and to remind this legislature of its duty and responsibility to address all the problems in the country, which is essentially the responsibility to solve all the problems in the country. But especially from the ruling party's ranks, there are objections when it comes to the state, as if it were a device whose name could never be called a negative. In the end, the organizational device, which we call the state, is not divine, but a human phenomenon, and in this way, every human has a certain deficiencies and a license to sin, and the government that governs those people and is capable of committing all kinds of mistakes and sins. Here, the idea that the government is free from all negatives is a very obsessive understanding, I can tell you that. In this way, as a person faces the reality of wrongdoing, crime, sin, and the reality of all the organized structures that he's run, states are facing the reality of wrongdoing, crime, sin. Here, outside the state of the state, foreign organizations and structures correspond to the same reality as the state. What kind of device is the state, what kind of historical background does it have, and what 5,000-year-old state-run society has come through filters and images, and I want to explain it in a few examples. The government has a history of the same age as the 5,000-year-old class society. The state's organised form, in fact, is the source of many historical, class-related problems. Classes have emerged with the state, with the state the poor-poor phenomenon has emerged, with the state the difference between men and women, and with the state they have the same historical age. With movement, see, in many different sections of history, intellectuals, scholars, authors, and philosophers of their own age, have pondered the relationship of state and state and violence, and have argued about it, and have tried to establish a connection between the state and violence. On this basis, all philosophers who have pondered both in the Middle Ages and in the light of the Middle Ages and in modern times on the state express that it is possible to give examples that are too broad to fit in the time of this conversation. But since our time is so limited, I'm going to talk about a few intellectuals, philosophers, who have spoken about state-political, state-violence relations. From Ibn Haldun to Imam Gazali, Foucault, Heidegger, Nietzsche, Althusser to Diderot, from the philosophers who are living today, Judith Butler, Immanuel Wallerstein, and Noam Chomsky, they have shown in many different sections of history that many people who have been driven to commit all kinds of crimes, sins, sins, and sins. From here, the state has caused mass death in many different parts of the world -- not only by reducing it to the state of the Republic of Turkey -- in many different places in the world. Especially the British political philosopher, Lord Acton, who corrupts power, and the absolute power corrupts it in an absolute way, he says. Now, are we arguing whether the government kills civilians or not? We're arguing, is the state going to slaughter in different parts of the world and in Turkey, or not? Let's say in a few examples from the world -- no need to go too far back -- let's say a few world experiences over the last 15, 20, 25 years. Now, did the state commit the massacre in Ossetya, Georgia, or did it do something else, or did it do something else? It was the state that massacred Ossetiah. Was it or wasn't it not the state that committed the massacre against the Crimean Turks? Was it or was it not a form of state that carried out mass civilian deaths against the Western Thracian Turks? Or was there or was there no government involvement in the civil killings and massacres committed in Palestine, just last year against the Bayır Bucak Turkmen in Mosul? In Sarajevo, in the 1990s, was it not or was it not the state that massacred in Sarajevo, Srebrenica, in the 1990s? Or was it not or was it not a state in Aleppo which killed 180,000 Kurds in Enfal? But in Turkey, in Maras, in Çorum, in Sivas, especially in the massacres...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0682par0021	And don't forget the chiefs, the chiefs.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0681par0022	...did he have a direct or indirect government finger or not? Or did Roboski make the plane of the state, or did he do something else? Wasn't it the police of the state who killed Berkin Else, who killed Dilek Doğan just two months ago?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0683par0023	The one who killed the soup guy in Diyarbakir?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0681par0024	It wasn't the government.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0683par0025	The one who killed Recep? The one who killed the doctor on leave?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0681par0026	There are many examples that I can count here, but the reality that the state will not be involved in any sin when there are dozens of historical and current examples that I can't count, is the warped understanding that sees God's destruction on earth. The state is a human being; the state is neither an idyllic being nor a divine being. The government can be implicated in any crime, any sin, by the people who rule it. We're discussing Mr. Arinc. I'm not exaggerating, I'm not looking at a positive or a negative point; Mr. Arinc is saying what he said last year in the process of unresolved solutions, and it doesn't mean anything more to me than that. Arinc stood there a year ago, two years ago, wherever he stood three years ago, and I'll tell you this: Look, just because he was defending the official view of the AKP and the government yesterday, he didn't free Arinc from all wrongs, or he cut his steering wheel in a different place than the previous year, according to the government, and that doesn't mean that everything Arinc did was wrong; and what happened yesterday, it was him, who changed his political line in the same place, changed its political line, or changed its route in a different place, according to the previous year, in the Middle East of the country, and its entire government. Beyond that, I don't value much, nor do I despise your explanations today. That's the only way all of the congressman friends can consider it, not to bless the state too much, to accept that the state is just a human being, to act in this reality.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0684par0029	Hodja, you're talking nonsense, Hodja! You're talking nonsense!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0681par0030	On this basis, I salute all of you with the fact that it is not a very different state that has done so in the city and in the south of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0685par0032	I submit Article 2 to your votes...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0686par0033	We want the number of decisions we need, President, the number of decisions we need.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0685par0034	All in favor...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0686par0035	We say we want a fair number of decisions, you never listen to us, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0685par0036	You said that after you took the vote. Those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul wants to speak on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0687par0044	Do you have any other MPs? Right, 62 is your number of deputies?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0688par0045	Are you just there to talk to us? [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the esteemed labourers of the General Assembly, I salute you all. Dear friends, it's also a thought that there's no group that talks on these substances at this time of night, except for us, but I'm here...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0689par0050	You're talking nonsense, it's empty, it's empty!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0690par0051	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0688par0052	Dear friends, we are here to rule the peace of this country...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0691par0053	You need to put the guns down.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0688par0054	...trying to make sure that peace can be permanent in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0691par0055	Guns to be dropped, guns to be dropped.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0688par0056	We're trying to talk about the peace process in an absolute way because it needs to be returned to the table, to the process of resolving the peace process.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0691par0057	Those weapons will be dropped.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0688par0058	Today, about the Dolmabahçe agreement, Mr. Bulent Arinc explains. We already knew, but if the public doesn't believe us, maybe your public opinion, your environments that are close to you, perhaps they believe in Bulent Arinc. He says the Dolmabahçe agreement was made within the knowledge of Mr. President. In fact, we know more about how that table was set up, who was where and how it was sitting, all of it from the very beginning, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0691par0059	Why not? Why not? Why did that table fall apart?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0688par0060	The Dolmabahçe agreement is the foundation of peace in this country. The 10 items that exist there are the future manifesto of this country. It's the obstacle to the union of this country, to Syrianization, to Iraq. Dear friends, we all wonder from time to time why this solution process has been corrupted? In my opinion, there are two main reasons why the solution process is broken. The first is the situation in Rojava, dear friends. In Rojava, the Kurds reached a status. Kobani was defended by Kurdish women and Mr. President İslahiyya fell, Kobani fell. He showed how Kurdish youth would not fall, and with their lives they discovered a status in Kobani. This status -- I've highlighted it before -- no matter where the Kurd has a status, the government and AKP's anti-Kurdish policy... In the world, whether it's in the poles, if there's a right to Kurds there, the government and the AKP are against it. Where do we get that from?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0691par0062	The Kurds are our brothers.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0688par0063	Because I just said that in my speech...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0691par0064	Fix your speech, brother Kurds, the terrorists are our enemies.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0688par0065	... In Iraq, when the Kurds had a status, they said the same thing: we will not allow one to happen.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0691par0066	It's not over, it's confusing.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0688par0067	Dear friends, today in Kobani, Rojava, when it is clear that Kurds will now have a status, the government and the AKP are trying to prevent it. A second reason: Dear friends, we actually put a pluralistic paradigm across Turkey from a 100-year monogamous paradigm, a paradigm that singles out everything, claiming that everything is one. This paradigm is multilingual, multicolored, multi-identified, multi-religious. This Democratic Party of Peoples project has revealed a whole new paradigm against a hundred years of paradigm. It was a paradigm to allow peoples of Turkey to live together by accepting each other, by changing each other, by accepting each other as they were, by forcing them to change. On October 30, 2014, when this state saw that the paradigm was fermented, they made the longest National Security Council in the history of Turkey, and there, from the former Ergeneconsul to the nationalist, from the religious, religious to the parishioner, all powers were not a matter of business, but of Turkey. But what changed? It was a pluralistic paradigm against single paradigm. Seeing this, they decided on October 30, 2014 to fight to prevent this paradigm by the government, the sovereign system, which we have established, by the Democratic Party of Peoples. So why was he kept waiting until June 7th? His reason was that they didn't know the size of this yeast until June 7th, but on June 7th, they saw that yeast kept it in all the geography of Turkey. Here's the painting that came out on June 7th, unfortunately, it startled the sovereigns I just mentioned. As a result of this scare, Turkey's people will be afraid of war, and then it will be, and so it will be, and so it will be. It was said, taken to the elections on November 1st under the terms of the war. It was the conditions of war, because no one else but the AKP was able to promote elections, because the entire state organised an election with the AKP, narrowing down all areas of the other sectors, and as a result of this narrowing area, the war will bring us into existence. What they said was that the painting that happened today in the southeast, in the Kurdistan. The picture we live in today is the result of the war resolution for these two reasons. Who started the war? How were the moats dug? Or so they say, Mr. President of Verin 400. He said, "Let this be done in peace." Let the 400 of Verin be done in peace, but let the country not go into confusion.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0692par0071	Twist, twist.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0688par0072	Are you talking about stability today? Is there stability today? How's our foreign trade? Can we see how the tradesman, the worker, the peasant?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0693par0073	It's all very good, all of it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0688par0074	Today in Turkey, we face nearly Syrianization in all of the Kurdistan. To that end, Mr. Bulent Arinc said that the solution must be carried out immediately, at the base of the Dolmabahçian agreement. The Dolmabahçe agreement wasn't just for Kurds; none of the 10 articles written in the Dolmabahçe agreement were just about Kurds; it was about all the differences in this country, all the differences in this country were about accepting each other as they were. So there's no other way out. The way you're headed right now, unfortunately -- we're afraid, we're saying no -- is going to make this country worse than Syria, maybe worse than Iraq.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0694par0076	You can't do it, you can't do it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0688par0077	Give up your hostility to Kurds. Wherever the Kurds were, they always got along well with the nation they were with...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0695par0078	The Kurds are our brothers; we have a problem with terrorists.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0688par0079	...they didn't just want freedom for themselves, they wanted freedom for the people they lived with. Right now the Kurds don't just want freedom for themselves, they want freedom for all the peoples of Turkey, they want freedom for all the differences that exist in Turkey. They no longer want to be exploited, ignored, ignored. Look, in our group on June 7th and even now in our group, there's Kurds, there's Turks, there's Alevi, there's Ezidi, there's Suryani, there's Azerbaijani, there's all the groups I can't count. A complete photograph of this country is now in our group, dear friends.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0696par0081	They're all Turks.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0688par0082	That's exactly what we call Turkeyling.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0697par0083	It's racist, it's racist.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0688par0084	We haven't given up on Turkey, we won't give up. This is the spread of the pluralistic paradigm in the Kurdistan to Turkey's sath. It's a system where everyone accepts each other as an equal, as they are, share and govern together. This system inevitably destroys a hundred years of paradigm, destroys a hundred years of monotheism, and replaces it with a pluralist, ruling understanding. We're not giving up on this. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0698par0087	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0699par0088	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, MP Haydar Akar. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0700par0091	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, I think we should talk about some of Turkey's other cities as well. At this time of the night, last semester, I often spoke of him, but to inform him a little. As of the beginning, one of the two provinces of the Metropolitan Law was carried out; but today we went up to 30. However, you are about to give up the Metropolitan Law these days, as well as the study of infrastructure on it. He's really one of the lowest cities in the province of 81 with facial measurements. So, as a facial measurement, there are eight provinces and 1,780,000 people from the last in terms of size. Indeed, when you look at Istanbul as a population density, there are 4,300 people who fall to a square mile in Istanbul, and then there are two digits, and there are some 45,000, 50,000, or 60,000 populations per year. Some of it comes with migration, some of it's normal, and our population is growing through childbirth. So we can think of the province of Alexei as a province that needs constant investment. Again, in the first nine months of 2015, he became the second district after İstanbul, paying the highest tax to the state's vault, with 35 billion, 600 million, 451,000 liras. At the same time, 39 billion 777 million were the first province. So our citizen who lives in Alexei is also paying his taxes. Again, these 35 billion 600 million collected contribute to the country's economy by 12 per cent -- 12.4 per cent of the country's economy -- after Ankara and Istanbul. So, basically, he gives you 12 and he gets 1. I want to get the numbers right. Although the tax collections in Turkey averaged 4,000 euros per person, this number is 22,000 euros per person, although there is such a dense population in Alexandria. Again, he ranked as 80th in the list of public investments from the Turkish community, which is the 80th time that Turkey received from the public, the central budget. From time to time, the construction of the railway line, the construction of the Ankara-Istanbul railway line, is seen to be added to this figure, as if it were being made for the Bigeli, but in the 80th place, we receive public investment. The total budget of the Alexandrian municipalities is 3 billion 143 million; 3 billion 143 million -- the budget of the municipalities in Alexandria is 3 quadrillion liras in old money. The city's 2015 budget is $1 billion,723 million, and the 2016 budget is $1 billion, 900 million, $2 quadrillion, over the budget of about 6 ministries. Now, when we give these numbers, we look back to Alexei, and we see that he shares the 6th and 8th places in unemployment and poverty, and he shares the 6th and 8th places in unemployment and poverty. So we see that even though the tax per capita is four to five times higher than the average of Turkey, he is ahead in the poverty ranking, ahead in unemployment. You know what the downside is? 44% of the employees work for minimum wage. You're going to say: "We've paid $1,300. You think we'll give them a breather, but you haven't paid $1,300. In the calculation of the current minimum wage, when you look at the brutue, it's $1,647, and the minimum wage is $1,177. A single citizen's number is 1,300 lira, which is not included in the minimum wage fee as a minimum income reduction, but is added to the number, while the minimum wage increase is not added to this raise. And here's a scam, and I'll tell you, you didn't charge $1,300 for minimum wage. I mean, now, such a poor town, such a poor town, but a city with a growing need. We need new public buildings, we need new schools, we need new roads, we need new housing. So, are these being done? I'm afraid it's not done, not at al-Maseli. When you look at it, you see that schools are made by the private sector. Of course, if you receive public investment in the 80th place, you can't make schools or public institutions. It's urgent, but even though the Justice Department has promised to do so every year, every year, the problem of the Alexandre Courthouse has been unresolved. This is not the end of his troubles; he has a great traffic problem. E5/i, the transit transition has been done to ease a little bit, the overpasses have been made, but unfortunately, when you look at the inner traffic, it's very bad. When you invite one of your guests to Izmit, they cannot find the entrance to Izmit, and they cannot find the entrance to Gebze and Izmit. It's possible to get lost on the exits. You must use the navigation device. We have that kind of traffic infrastructure. You've spent a lot of money on traffic -- probably about 500,000 -- and Mr. Ilyas is listening to me from there -- and in 2009 they printed a fancy project brochure on their way to the election. It's got monorail in it. Don't ask me now what's a monorail? It's going on a single track.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0701par0102	What did everyone say?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0700par0103	There's a subway, there's a cable car; there's all kinds of transportation in the world like this.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0702par0104	It was a dream, did it come true?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0700par0105	I can't say, none of this is real. But I'll admit one thing: last time, during the election, the minister had a tram project that they went into his neighborhood and put in a park, and they waved from there. And the tram was powered by an intermediary cable to light it up. We finally got it started. Thereupon they waved a wave. Oh, that's a wrong project, as far as Izmit is concerned, you're bringing the whole city down. I won't go into too much detail, but it's a good thing it happened, and I think it'll give the city a different value. We have an airport, it's a feast! You guys opened five times. You know your famous openings, the five-time openings you've been doing... in 2008, they've started flying to Tripoli; in 2008, they've been interrupted, they've come, they've come, they've come, they've gone, they've opened five times, they've still got one line, and there's still one plane going in and out of Tripoli. They haven't been able to get this to work yet. At that time, I said that the air square was Genghis Topel Air Square, which had the least equipment in the state air squares, the least device for the plane's safe landing and departure, was missing ILS and VOR devices. I said that on the date it opened, but they just started putting it in place. It's an airport that, believe me, is supposed to be a slum, because Sabiha gets her services from Gökçen, where she gets all her other services. I think it's unfair to a city that values so much added to its value, to a city that meets 12 per cent of the Turkish economy. I think of air traffic in Istanbul as a failure to use Genghis Tokel. We have a port, a feast on homes! Although the people of the city are surrounded by the sea on three sides, although we have 108 km shores, they yearn for the beach and yearn for the sea because a port falls from 2.3km to 1 port. From here, I speak to the Alexandrian lawmakers: Your betrayal of this Deep Port... has allowed a 450,000 square metre filling to be privatized, and you have not resisted.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0703par0109	Tell me about the beach with the blue flags.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0700par0110	Look, they've given us permission to cross the bay at a point that narrows it down to 500 meters to the coast, a one-mile parallel pond direction to the south -- almost across -- to fill the harbor, to fill up 5 million cubic metres, about -- if I can't remember the wrong number -- with 300,000 large trailers to be moved there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0704par0111	Tell me about the dam of Sefa Sirmen! Tell me about him!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0700par0112	I'll tell you, I know him very well, and I'll teach you, don't worry about it! I will.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0705par0114	Tell me about the beach with the blue flag! Tell me about the beach with the blue flag.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0700par0115	They've built a dam, they're leaving. Only 7 per cent of the debt from the city's capital is cut off, but 40 per cent of Eskişehir's debts are cut off from Izmir. When you say that, you're ashamed, ashamed, and frozen by the treasure, it has no effect today, my friends. I'll use it in ten minutes; it's essential because it doesn't finish, guys.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0706par0118	Tell me about the beach with the blue flags, Mr. Haydar! It's a shame!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0700par0119	There's a nest of germs on the blue flag beaches, with a fake blue flag. In fact, you removed the numbers of the county health department a day later, and I know that very well, if you want to, I'll have him brought in.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0706par0120	Tell me about how many times you've been to the sea.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0700par0121	I'm not saying it to be bad, I'm telling you what's missing, Mr. Ilyas. I'm warning you here. Let's make it a brand city.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0706par0122	I mean, say it, say it. You're the Alderman, do your advertising, do your advertising. Advertise the services here, it'll suit you. It is here to tell you of the beauty of the husband, which suits you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0700par0123	I mean, make it a brand city, make it a brand city, like in the past. Such treachery does not suit a city that contributes so much. I give you my love.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0707par0126	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0708par0127	Okay, copy that. I will submit the third article to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor of matter: those who do not accept... Matter accepted, there's enough to decide. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to request that members who can't get into the system ask the technical staff for help, but who can't get into the system, to deliver the ballots to the presidency within three minutes scheduled for the vote. In addition, I request that they deliver the president within three minutes of the vote, which is scheduled for the vote, which includes the vote of whichever minister will vote, and the vote of the vote, which includes the color of the vote and the name and the signature of its own name and name. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Council of Europe's Act Agreement Against Human Trade is in accordance with a clear vote: ▪ The number of votes used: 207 [[x]] Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. Now, we'll begin negotiations with Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 5th place, providing approval of Protocol 15 that Brings Changes to the Convention to Protect Human Rights and Main Freedoms. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by 27 rows. Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, demanding word on the entire bill. Mr. Aydın, come in. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0709par0152	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0710par0153	For God's sake, Hodja, talk for ten minutes!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0709par0154	I'll do that, won't I?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0711par0155	Mr. President, let the friends sit down...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0712par0156	Congressmans, please, let's take our seats, and let's not disturb the witness on the stand.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0711par0157	I mean, does he have to use provocative, taunting words to get the General Assembly to listen, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0712par0158	Unfortunately...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0713par0159	Mr. Lawmakers, this late at night, our Erzurum, has a very spiritual value, a very wise man, I'll tell you about the stanza of our Teacher Naim. There's just been a little bit of teasing, and I'd like to give him a kind answer by putting a little bit of courtesy into it. I hope you don't mind if I give you a little bit of the accent, with all due respect. He says: 'The servant of Ula, the word is good, he weigh the man.' If you speak well, you'll be honored. If you keep quiet, you'll have more dignity. If you lie, your stove goes down. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Now, we really need to do something from these podiums that will increase our dignity from time to time, which we've done. Sometimes, sometimes, we try to raise our dignity, right, knowledge, documentation, science, knowledge, knowledge, because this is actually a state where people are represented at the highest level. So we're all going through a process where we really need to pay attention at some point. Of course, we're going to talk about a lot of problems, but once we're talking about problems, we have to agree that something should be a problem. We, as the National Movement Party, said: "Friends, to make a problem of one thing, to underestimate it, to despise it, to make it the other." We can't have a Kurdish problem in Turkey, we don't have a problem, we don't have a Laz problem, we have a Circic problem, we can't have a Georgian problem, we don't have a Georgian problem. It's a metamorphosis project, but, of course, if you take it from somewhere with the mind to put it, and somebody brings it up, it becomes this material, and it goes hand in hand, from language to language. Democracys are, in three days, five days, three years, ten years, not a hundred years. From time to time, we'll express them. Our job is to express the truth based on knowledge, the document. Look, a lot of the speakers before us actually defined democracy, starting with their ancient etymological definitions. We also looked at Western democracies. One of the oldest Western democracies is the Anglo-Saxon tradition. You all know that. Look, it was declared Magna Carta in 1215. What's a Magna Carta? From what we understand today, if this Parliament were to go to that day and discuss Magna Carta, in the name of democracy, the Magna Carta had nothing to do with democracy in today's conditions. You know why? Because there's a monarchy, what's across from it, in the monarchy -- I'm talking about the Middle Ages. There's a certain hierarchy, lords, barons, and you can take them down to the king and king. Look, we call it "the democracy" but how did his adventure begin: there are no subjects, there are no people, there are only kings, and there are classes in which the king serves, so there is a feudal structure. This feudal structure says that this king is making us do everything he wants, but we have no right, we have no parliament, he's not asking us anything. We're looking at the structure of democracy of England, and its definition is: it's a constitutional monarchy, it has two parliaments; the House of Lords is separate; the House of Commons is separate. But in this process of development, without betraying the structure, without shouting at the structure, without accusing it of treason, without blaming it, without adding to it, how much more can we develop the structure, how much can we complete our shortcomings, where there are problems, how can we solve them? At the point, democracies go through a process of self-improvement, expanding, expanding, embracing. But unfortunately, respected lawmakers, we actually have these kinds of examples here. I just gave an example of the Anglo-Saxon tradition, because it's the furthest, because it's the oldest, so if we bring it to the French, we'll take it from 1789, and we'll tell it, you know. Now, our state of the Republic of Turkey, believe it -- we use it for babies, we say it's giving up. It can't even walk. For God's sake, a young republic, 90 years is not a big year, it's not a long year in the tradition of democracy, believe me, it's not even a childhood. Look, 1215-2016, eight hundred years later, we're talking about a structure that still hasn't given up on the monarchy for England. So let's not be unfair to the 90-year-old republic, our democratic tradition. Perfect? It's not. We call it the age of absorption, it will grow, it will grow, it will grow, it will grow, it will grow, it will grow, it will take centuries, but if we ignore it, we ignore it, we move on nuances, we act on flaws, we move on flaws, we kill and destroy. And who would benefit from this absence, dear lawmakers, I ask you? We're always on these podiums, we'll be Iraq, we'll be so simple. And what would you be? What about us? Let's be Syria. What about you? Are you part of a Sunni state, part of a state of Shia, or part of another state of ethnicity? Just think about it. We use them easily, we waste concepts very easily, but we don't know where they're going. Imagine what I would be if there was Syria, where I would be, how I would be, where my position would be, what would happen to this Assembly? So, really, we're not going to be disastermongers. We must always encourage good, beautiful, to contribute to the future of this country. We will not deepen our difficulties by moving on to each other's faults and shortcomings. We've always said, when we're expressing certain rights or artificial problems in this geography, let's avoid the rhetoric that will bring about a state, a nation, a union, over a thousand years of existence. So in this geography the Turks came to what you call Mesopotamia, Palestine, Syria, what you call the land of Syria, and they brought with them their identity, their culture, their purity, their brotherhood, their love for peace; they fought against the Gazans; they fought against them in Horasan, and then 1071 Malazgirt, then a futuata of Anatolian towards the west, but we just said, there can't be a concept of a state, a democracy, by putting any ethnistity on the front line. This process is now named after its name, its struggle; the great Turkish nation now exists all over Anatolia by keeping all ethnic groups together, by sharing, by talking, by agreeing, by creating all the cultural fabric together. So, today, look, a speaker friend, a speaker, did exactly this: Now, you're putting forth a thesis, and we're going to have to bring some evidence from the West. Well, there's science; let's look at our tradition first. We're from history, and I told you the other day, history is our road map, and we're going to look there and build our future. He says there's a canton in Azerbaijan, there's a canton in Kyrgyztan, there's Kazakhstan, there's Switzerland, there's Belgium. Why do we insult ourselves? Is this tradition of being a state, of being a nation long before the Turks, for God's sake? We do, we already do. So why are you showing me Kazakhstan as an example? You're showing me the structure in Azerbaijan, Kyrgyztan, Kazakhstan, or Switzerland, because you're going to divide me, divide me, cantonize me. We have a tradition of becoming states, by the grace of God, we have achieved it in history. So let's avoid such underestimating, simplifying, historically decoding policies. So we prefer to shut up from time to time, to increase our dignity, or we have much to say, thank God. Lord, we all know Akif. We have made Aquif (Akiph) Memorial Day. Akif goes to Egypt, and the return of Egypt -- just as I quote myself, I stayed 11 years in Egypt, but if I had stayed 11 more hours, I would have gone mad. I'll tell you my opinion -- he says to his subject -- that humanity is in Turkey, nationalism is in Turkey, Islam is in Turkey, freedom is in Turkey. Says Akif. Now, when you say that, you'll all remember the fall of Albania in Safahat. And there it says: You can hear it from me, I'm Albanian... That's all I can say... here's my wretched home! Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have no homesickness. To ruin our home, please, we will not be involved in artificial endeavors, we will not support what has happened, we will not honor the artificial political rhetoric that holds the dish. Because words are like arrows, once they come out of the mouth, then they're material, and they're self-defense mechanisms, and they're constantly referred to. Then we'll think about it and talk about it in this great House. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0714par0175	The second word on behalf of the groups belongs to Bitlis MP Mizgin Irgat, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0715par0176	No, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0714par0177	Yeah. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PROTOCOLING OF 15 NOTES TO CONTINUE TO CONTINUE TO CONTINUE PEOPLE'S RIGHTS AND RETRODUCTIONS TO CONTINUE TO CONTINUE TO CONTRODUCTION MADDE 1- (1) In the Council of Europe on 24 June 2013, the adoption of the 15th Protocol, which was signed on behalf of the Republic of Turkey on 13 September 2013, has been approved to protect Human Rights and Main Freedoms. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Hakkari MP Nihat Akdoğan has asked for a statement on Article 1. Here you go, Mr. Akdoğan. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0716par0186	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, I have made a pledge to protect human rights and the fundamental freedoms of the law. I salute the grand jury. But I'd like to start by reminding you of one thing. Yesterday, the European Court of Human Rights had an explanation for which countries have a report card on human rights in Europe. Turkey was ranked third after Ukraine and Russia. In particular, in this brief period of 2015-2016, we are now saying that we are having problems in many of our districts, even in our provinces, that we are trying to bring all the authorities into play here in order to save people's lives, but unfortunately, we can't get past things here, we're stopping somewhere. We can't call 112. We have to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights to send an ambulance, especially in Cizre. Indeed, if we were to live together, as all our friends have just stated, this Parliament should be able to demonstrate that there is no will over its own will, that it should be able to establish its clarity here. These files, again... how many hundreds, thousands, or even tens of thousands of cases were accepted in the European Court of Human Rights, will be faced with the same process, and I think it should not be ignored, because even now, the relatives of the people in Cizre, their brothers, are looking for us, my brother is injured here, so what are you doing? In fact, when we go out here, our friends say, "How did we get to this process?" Well, you have to look, dear friends. In a place supported by people who cut their heads off, in a place where people cried for blood, we said, "What harm do Kurds in Rojava do to Turkey?" Any border violations? Is there a threat to Turkey?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0717par0191	Thanks to Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Kurds of Rojava...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0716par0192	Yeah, come talk to me here instead of there. Dear friends, we insisted that the people the Kurds are best friends with today in the Middle East are Turks, and they want to live with them. But you, as we all know, the international community is saying that by supporting the gangs here... Look, I stayed in Antwerp. I mean that from the bottom of my heart. The hospitals in Antwerp... the citizens of the Republic of Turkey, those who came from Syria or went to Syria... you: we can't take the people who are going on vacation, they are going on vacation. His interest in hospitals, we didn't get that attention. And you're gonna go out there and you're gonna say that the Kurds are crying blood together... no matter what friends come out of any party here. We're talking 1071, we're talking about Çanakkale, we're even talking about Operation Cyprus. Who's he with? So, those Syrians were also citizens of this land, relatives of the Kurds here. We'll get out of there, and Kobani will fall. We'll say, "Here, we'll let those people through the Akchakale Border Gate there, and we'll bomb them right now." We say: Well, we all know that what you call "brother" and "live together" and even with the flesh we're against... when the nail grows, it's cut. If we're going to live here together -- these borders, a structure you know there -- why did you turn against the Kurds who were related to you, who may have fought with you in Çanakkale? Why do you think so many p.Y.D.s... Look, you tried your best not to let the NYD participate in the Geneva talks, and you counted that as a success. It's really...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0718par0196	Where do you talk if you love God?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0719par0197	What do you care about PYD?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0716par0198	Why are we saying this? So, today, look, we'd like to say that this is where the solution process ends. Mr. President says, "We will not allow northern Syria." So, who will you build with? Tell me, who do you call the opposition to Syria? Vaporized. Explain who's in there right now; there's El Nusra, there's ISIS.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0718par0199	Whoever's against the regime.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0719par0200	PYD, everyone's our brother except the PKK.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0716par0201	On the other hand, look, there's a structure out there where all the beliefs, all the languages and all the colors are expressing themselves right now. We should criticize this structure. If there are shortcomings there, if you have objections there, you will do so, but you don't need to see them as enemies because they're the main elements of the place, not an outsider society. There are no people from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bangladesh, or any country in Africa. You're going to come and say, "We won't allow such a structure, this is our red line. If you make enemies of the people there, why would you see an enemy of a society that has been deprived of its identity for a hundred years, its language has been banned, its culture banned, its culture banned today? Today that policy also works in Turkey. Look, I'll tell you this: What brought Turkey's politics to this position today? 1) It was the cantons system there. 2) This was the opposite of Akçakale. And you're afraid of it, and these boundaries fall into their hands. But the structures you know, the people you know. You're afraid of a democratic structure, which will affect Turkey. We say: If Kerkuk is in Musul Misakimilli, wouldn't he include the geography where these Kurds live? Then why do we approach it like this? So today, at work, you see the red line, the Rojava politics that ended the solution process, and that's wrong. From there, we are persistently singing. Has there ever been an attack on Turkey from where the Kurds lived, from where they lived, from where they lived, all the way to Afrin? It's not. We live in anxiety, we fear. We have to get through this. If we're going to live together, if we're going to talk about life together, we're going to accept them, and we're going to go back to the solution process again before more people lose their lives, and we're going to say, "We could have actually done it yesterday, but we couldn't do it today. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0720par0207	I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0721par0208	Mr. President, may I make a brief statement?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0720par0209	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0721par0212	Kurds and Turks are brothers, and they have to be brothers. The fate of geography also holds it together. But it's better for everyone to walk into the future here with a common destiny than to impose. Not only are Kurds and Turks brothers; Persians, Arabs, all of them brothers. It is terror that opposes the brotherhood of Kurds and Turks. Dissolving terrorism and Kurds is the chief duty of anyone who is sensitive to Kurds. Otherwise, there's a language that makes them the same, a false language. The PYD is in league with the PKK today. The PYD first kicked the shit out of Kurds who didn't obey them in that area. It's wrong to come here and present the NYD like a structure that allows every color, a spokesman for such democracy. Assad seems to be opposed to his regime, but he cooperates from the bottom down. Today, in the case of terrorism in the east, in the southeast, in various places, there is also a share of weapons and people that have been launched from the land of the PYD. And of course, the people of this country know all this. Or the Kurds, the Turks, are brothers, and they have to be. And it's everyone's job to look at this matter in a way that will investigate this brotherhood. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0722par0215	Thank you. I'm going to read Article 2: MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Bitlis MP Mizgin Irgat wants to speak on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Irgat. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0723par0225	Mr. President, dear members, at this time of night, we're actually jumping from branch to bag of law, from subject to subject. In fact, all these laws...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0724par0227	International, international...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0725par0228	We're not discussing a bag of laws. It's about international contracts.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0723par0229	It's the same minimum, same minimum. So this logic...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0726par0231	What, the bag isn't the law.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0723par0232	Hey, listen to me or listen to me!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0727par0233	It's true, it's true!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0728par0234	The bag is not the law!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0729par0235	Congressmans, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0730par0236	I mean, I wasn't going to bring it up, but Mr. Bostanci's explanation for the PYD is... The status of the PYD is not only in Turkey, but in a position of respectability in the international community in the world, where all peoples, Kurds, Alevis, Turkmens, have gained dignity in the world in their position, in their position, in the case of an organization that sells, rapes, and commits crimes that history condemns. Thus, it is necessary to condemn the people who are carrying weapons against ISIS, who have provided an environment for the crimes committed by ISIS, who have committed misdeeds, and who have committed crimes against ISIS. I suggest we take the right attitude at this point and discuss the facts at this point.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0731par0238	PKK...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0730par0239	I won't answer you. Now we've come across comments where our historical problems, the geographical structure of the Kurdish people, the language, the culture, are discussed with some interpretations, and we've listened to them. The Kurdish problem is not just a 30-year, 40-year-old problem, but a 150-year-old problem. It is the historic problem of this country, which began in the late years of the Ottoman Empire, which continued with Ithihat Terakki, who climbed in the 1990s and came so far unresolved. It is not only this country; it is the problem of Syria, Iran, Iraq, and some Caucasus. So open Google. Open Wikipedia. What is Kurdistan? I didn't want to read the answers that came your way right now, but it's clearly written down. With language, the name of the geographical region, which uses a language belonging to the Indian-European language group with its culture, refers to a country located in four countries. Thus, a series of laws that start from Admission Terakki will have to be opened. Who has brought out Takir-i Sakkun, Vataniye, and the courts of inheritance? Why were the ruling courts held the following day, before appeals were carried out, before the death sentence was approved in parliament? When we arrived in the 1990s, why were emergency decisions, state-of-the-art administrations, state security courts, special-level courts set up? Why has Kurdish been banned in public for years? My name is Kurdish. You know, you'd all be embarrassed if I told you the story of my discrimination about my name. In my schooling years...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0732par0241	Have you lived since 2002?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0730par0242	No. In my schooling years, you would all be ashamed if I told you such stories as "Why is this your name?" Do not tell us about Kurds, Kurdistan, nor about our discrimination. We're not going to...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0733par0243	Don't shout, don't scream!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0730par0244	I'll scream! I'm telling the truth. Listen!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0733par0245	Speak without shouting!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0730par0246	I'll scream! I'll talk any way I want. You can't interfere with that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0733par0247	You are talking.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0730par0248	And in the meantime, Mr. President, let the AKP pass on comments that are constantly explaining rows, trying to get people into shape with schematics. So let's just... Yes, we know that there is no freedom of expression in this country.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0734par0250	How do you talk? How do you talk?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0735par0251	Can you talk here without freedom of speech?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0730par0252	I've been through this. But so does the House.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0734par0253	You've been talking all morning. You're living the freedom of speech, you're talking. How else are you gonna talk?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0736par0254	Congressmans, let's not interfere. Please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0730par0255	Look, of course I'm gonna live.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0734par0256	Live! Live!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0730par0257	I'm a chosen man like you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0734par0258	We've already made way for you to live!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0730par0259	Shut up! Don't talk! Speech!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0734par0260	You shut up! You've been talking all morning!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0737par0261	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0730par0262	Look, about human rights in this country...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0734par0263	You're living God of freedom of speech!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0730par0264	Hang in there, hang in there!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0734par0265	We're putting up with it. We've been putting up with this for hours.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0738par0266	Mr Enç... Congressmans, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0734par0268	We'll endure, these deals will come out of here!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0269	A matter is being discussed concerning the Convention on Human Rights. The presidential system is being discussed in our country. So it's a one-man meeting of authority. In 1215, because of the reference of the speakers before me, the king himself reduced his authority at Magna Carta. But when we look at Turkey in 2016, there's a system that's trying to form a single entity, a dictatorship, a dictatorship. This is described in such a calm way, the system has changed. It is said that the system has changed. But actually...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0740par0271	For God's sake, I believe with all my heart.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0741par0272	He's the murderer of 35,000 people!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0273	Everyone knows who the dictator is.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0742par0274	If he were a dictator, you wouldn't be talking here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0743par0275	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0276	You can't hide these facts from these people. All of Turkey, all of the Middle East... I mentioned it in my first speech. According to Strasbourg documents, Turkey is second; Russia is the first, Turkey is the second, at the point of human rights violations. I didn't file this report. Why was this report filed?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0744par0278	Your co-chair is not leaving Russia.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0279	No, no... Look, I have a report for you...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0744par0281	Give account of the 350 children whom you have detained in Kandil.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0282	And when we women come out, you just talk!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0745par0283	Men are somewhere else, there's nothing to do.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0746par0284	There's a bunch of mouth-to-mouth officers out there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0285	The one who died in the blockades... Hey, listen up!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0747par0287	We're not listening!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0288	I mean, I know the truth hurts at this hour. I mean, unfortunately, that's the truth.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0747par0289	It's not real, we can't stand it because it's slander. Slander, slander, slander!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0290	You're going to listen to this, you're going to sit at the peace table with the Kurds in this country. This table will be set.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0747par0291	You're slandering me, slandering me!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0292	Look, no matter how much you deny it...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0747par0293	You use Kurds, we won't let you use Kurds anymore. You'll get out of the way!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0748par0294	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0295	No matter how much you deny it...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0749par0296	Mr. President, he's threatening us.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0748par0297	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0298	I don't need any threats, I'm stating the facts. No government in this country has been able to eliminate the Kurdish issue for years.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0750par0299	It's a matter of terror, terror!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0751par0300	Terror, terror!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0301	So it has to solve this problem. Even today, if this problem is resolved, you will not be able to erase this history from the memory of these people, from the memory of the tortured children, from the history of these stories, from the painful stories.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0751par0302	I'm not gonna make you forget.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0303	So, we're saying in a quick way, let's put an end to the injustices that have happened. Look, I have a report today from 28/01. The blockades, which continue under the name curfew, continue in three districts -- Cizre, Silopi, Sur; and the one that has not been declared, continue in the actual districts and districts, such as I am a deputy. I'm going to talk about a lot of cities where there are at least how many helicopters pass by a day, how many scorpions pass by, how many blockades we can't give you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0751par0305	Yeah, it's built so new ditchs don't get dug, new bombs don't have to be planted, and it's going to be built.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0306	Look, if the government's compromised that area, if they've abandoned the Kurds and that area, let them be clear. In effect, we already see it done very clearly. People in a basement at this time -- look, it's still 01.32 -- if they haven't been taken to the hospital, it's certainly the most important example of the state's discrimination policies in this area.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0752par0307	Is that why you want the government ambulance?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0308	In the Suruç massacre, there were 33 people killed in the Zergele massacre, and 141 people killed in the Ankara massacre, including 8, 100 lives.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0753par0309	What massacre?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0310	The last ban was declared in Cizre at 14/12/2015. In the blockade that has lasted for forty-six days, 69 people have lost their lives, 28 have lost their lives, 19 have died in Tyre.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0754par0311	350 children were detained on the mountain.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0312	Thus, the AKP, the culprit of all these deaths, is the wrong policies of the AKP government.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0755par0313	How many cops, how many soldiers have been killed?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0314	Blood continues to be shed in this country because of AKP government's violent policies.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0755par0315	How many cops, how many soldiers have been killed? Say that for once! Why don't you just say it once from that stand, if you can feel it? Why don't you tell me about the PKK bastards who left the two-and-a-half-month-old child without a father? Tell me about them!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0316	Therefore, we will continue to call it peace. We will always defend human rights.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0756par0317	You can't say anything about peace!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0755par0318	You're not defending human rights, but you're defending the terrorist's rights! It's not human rights, it's not human rights!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0319	Because the Kurds will play the historical role as the most peaceful, democratic people in this country.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0755par0320	And set the scales equal to each other, equal and equal.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0321	The Kurds will change the course of this history.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0757par0322	Martyrs don't die!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0755par0323	Fascists, fascists! You're fascists, you're Kurdish nationalists.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0324	Because peaceful policies, as the most established, ancient people of the Middle East, will say to your policies, "Stop!" [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So don't tire yourself out.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0755par0327	Don't bother, we're comfortable!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0328	If you can, we are the Parliament of this country.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0758par0329	Mr. Irgat, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0330	...we call it a solution, so let's solve these problems, but you don't have that request.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0759par0331	We call it a solution, we say the same thing. Shut down the moats, drop the weapons!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0758par0332	Mr. Irgat...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0739par0333	So the AKP government...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0760par0335	Where are the 350 kids you kidnapped? Where are the child's rights?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0758par0336	I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul has asked for the third article. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0761par0342	Mr. President, dear MPs, dear workers of the General Assembly, I salute you all. [[Let's talk about the AK PARTY lines without shouting from there.]] First of all, I decide how to talk. It's my decision, my approach, I can approach it any way I want. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Friends, tell those of you who have been appointed to be mouth-to-mouth officers, go out here, talk, don't talk like that. (PEOPLE RINGS) Don't use words.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0762par0349	We don't have any officers, but if you have your orders, that's different!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0763par0350	We're not like you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0761par0351	Look, it's like you guys put him in charge. I haven't started my sentences yet. I haven't said anything yet. What did I say?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0764par0352	They're court choirs, court choirs.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0765par0353	These next guys are all lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0766par0354	Congressmans, I beg you, please don't interfere with the Hati.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0767par0355	Dear friends... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] President, shut him up, please!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0766par0358	Congressmans, please... But, Mr. Orator, everyone is here of the will of the people, of their own free will. Nobody's an officer, everybody's a congressman.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0768par0361	Bravo, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0362	But before they even started, I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0766par0363	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0364	Dear friends, when we come out here, they always say we opened TRT Shesh to the Kurds. We gave the Kurds their rights.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0770par0365	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0366	Today, Kurds still can't study their native language, can't study their language. The education is blocked in their own language. We say that no one in this geography can be cut off from their right to education in their own language. Everyone has the right to education. This is a man's birthright; it is not your right to be granted. Kurdish must have the same rights as any activity can be done with Turkish, just as Turkish can be studied.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0770par0367	Did you have one before?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0368	Kurdish is also a language given by God. This is a language spoken by about 40 million people - in the Middle East. Dear friends, they say we have opened a Kurdish institute.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0770par0370	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0371	Right now, the director of that Kurdish institute is our deputy. You didn't even name that Kurdish institute properly, you had to call it Living Languages. Why? Because you don't mean Kurdish, because you still can't stomach the fact that Kurds exist in their own way. So, what happened to that Kurdish institute? There's a master's degree...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0771par0372	Except we couldn't find a man there. Did you send your kid to school there?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0373	Keep doing your job.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0772par0374	You do it, he does it. What are you doing?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0375	You gave young people who had a master's degree and a PhD the right to become a Kurdish teacher. Oh, yeah? He's going to be an elective.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0773par0376	Then why didn't you send students?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0377	What native language is given to its people, its people, by choice? Can you show another example of this in the world, is there such an example?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0773par0378	Why did you close the classrooms, the classrooms, the Kurdish classrooms?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0379	Kurds will never give up their right to education in their native language. Dear friends, those who graduated from there, unfortunately, were not made teachers. They are still wandering the streets, and they are currently not appointed teachers of Kurdish, and they are not educated in Kurdish. So, you give this right, we give this right. You say, "You save things on paper, you save images." It's the perception management the AKP has been doing since the beginning. It's the same for the Kurds, the same for other peoples of Turkey. Look, when we were discussing this bag of legislation, you were giving the police commissioners, I don't know, an increase here and there. What's the increase? 40 or 50 liras, not much, really. But why? Create a psychological war environment and force them to fight. You also do the same thing about Kurdish education. TRT Şesş is today's AKP's trumpet, and he is studying only and only religiously.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0774par0383	Did you have to?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0384	In no other way, the development of language is neither the development of culture nor the education of Kurds that makes its own features. We don't have to force it, we took it apart, we didn't take it away from you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0775par0386	What'd you get, AK PARTY gave it to you?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0387	The Kurds founded dozens of Kurdish televisions today; they built them in spite of you; do not be offended. We have not taken from you what we have been given so far, but we ourselves have taken his struggle, and we continue to fight his battles. Therefore, we Kurds will never give up our right to education in the native language. Education in the mother tongue is as sacred as a human's breast milk. So, dear friends, if you really want to establish intimate relations with Kurds right now, you have to listen to the demands of Kurds. To that end, you will begin to recognize the right to study in the native language. You must pave the way for Kurdish education, otherwise we will continue this fight, and we will not give up this fight.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0776par0389	You gonna go with the gun or the gun?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0390	Now, Kurds are now building educational institutions themselves, despite your laws, your obstacles. Today the Kurds have schools that train in their own language; they do it in Cizre; they do it in Diyarbakır; they do it in Cleopatra, despite you. We, as a people, will no longer expect anything from you, we are actually starting this ourselves, we are fighting this, we are fighting this. Now, when it comes to Kurds, how do I prevent, how do I manage perception? And through people close to you, you think you represent Kurds, you don't represent them, precious friends, you don't.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0777par0392	And you do?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0393	Look, if you're representing, there are no people left in Silvio today. Why doesn't a deputy of yours go there? There are no people left in Cizre. Why doesn't a deputy of yours leave because of what these people are going through? Why don't you go to the van? Why don't you go to Hakkari? Don't you guys see it as your own? Doesn't this House represent those people? You don't have to be the trustees. Look, I'm an MP, but I've been to Cizre, I've been to Şırnak, I've been to other places; I've been to the struggle of my people. If you are truly seeing this people of your own, please go, and see what these people are facing in Cleopatra, in Cizre, and what they are facing in Tyre. I wish you had a Diyarbakır deputy here, he would have told you about Tyre, but unfortunately, they don't tell you what happened to those people. You're not the address of those people's problems because you don't see them as your own, and you're there right now, including the right to travel, including the right to education, and you sit in this council, and you're just trying to talk to me like you've been assigned officers. If you want a solution, it's not here, let's set up a commission, let's see the area in place. Why are you avoiding this, let's go together?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0778par0394	There's already a government there, there's a government, why should we do that?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0395	You know you don't. You don't have a word to say to those people, but we feel the pain of those people in our hearts.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0779par0397	Is that why you're protecting the terror organization? Is that why you're setting the Kurds up?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0398	For him, we will continue to be with those people. We've always been there for those people, we'll always be there for them.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0780par0399	What right do you speak for the person who launches rockets at treatment hospitals and bombs at school?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0400	You find out who dropped the bomb, you find out who dropped the bomb.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0780par0402	What are we going to investigate?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0403	Now look, we've been saying that there's something in Cirre since this morning. You're saying that terrorists are throwing.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0781par0404	They're all outsiders. It's got nothing to do with us!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0405	What I'm saying is, as always, it's the uniform that shoots at the ambulance.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0782par0407	Lies! Lies! They're terrorists.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0408	He's who you say he is. Official uniforms are firing. Look, there's evidence of that. If you must know, ask your prime minister, ask your ministers, ask the Home Secretary, ask the Deputy Prime Minister. They know what happened. We know, dear friends. You don't run it, you hand it over to a private gladiator. You have no authority over them, and we know it, and the AKP government has no authority. It's a private gladiator who runs it. When you drive there, you've probably made a deal, and we'll never get involved with you. You said, "We'll never get involved." And you can't talk about that deal right now.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0783par0409	You're the ones who torment the Kurds, and there's no ambulance here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0769par0410	You officers continue your duties, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0784par0412	You are an officer of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0785par0413	I'm an officer of the nation, and I'm very happy to be an officer of the nation.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0786par0414	That's enough!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0787par0415	Mr. Demirel didn't happen again because there's a speaker. The second word for the groups is Mr. Aytuğ Atcı, Mersin MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0788par0419	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have taken a pledge on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group on Article 3 of the 15th Amendment to Human Rights and Main Freedoms, and I salute all lawmakers who respect human rights. Dear friends, I've seen a lot of serious human rights violations here during a long working day, and I'm sure you've seen them. While our martyrs are being buried today, our friends from all over Turkey have violated human rights while people are dying. There's no greater human rights violation.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0789par0422	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0788par0423	You can't laugh when people are dying, you won't laugh.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0790par0424	Look to the right, to the right.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0789par0425	You're the one laughing!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0790par0426	Look to the right.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0791par0427	Can I get you anything else?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0792par0428	You know how we fight.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0793par0429	You can throw words at me. If you feel what you're saying in your heart, I'll be damned, but if you laugh at a cockatoo after you throw the word, it's called disrespect for human life. Look, I'm not going to bend anything, I'm going to give you some numbers. We don't have to shout here at all. These numbers aren't the figures that my own person or party produced.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0794par0431	Why are you yelling? Then why are you talking so loud?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0793par0432	You can get these numbers from the European Court of Human Rights or from human rights organizations, foundations. I'll just read the numbers and ask you to see where you've brought Turkey. All of these numbers are Turkey's report card from 2003 to 2014. Look, we're talking about human rights violations, right? There's no need to go too far. This is the 132nd place between 167 countries in terms of freedom; do not think that I enjoy saying these things.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0795par0434	Who filed the reports?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0793par0435	I mean, we've got the government pinned down, look, we've hit rock bottom in terms of freedom. I don't like to say, but I don't like these numbers.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0795par0436	Who filed the reports?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0793par0437	... I have to tell you guys one more time.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0795par0438	Who prepared it? Whose report were the reports?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0793par0439	We can present all these reports to you in any way you want.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0795par0440	Whose report? CHP's report?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0793par0441	And you don't need to get reports from anywhere. When you enter smartphones in front of you from the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights and Human Rights Associations in Europe and the world...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0795par0442	Whose report, sir?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0793par0443	...and the research of their foundation.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0795par0444	Tell us whose report it is, and we'll find out.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0793par0445	In terms of freedom of expression, you are one hundred and thirty-seven dignitaries from 197 countries.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0795par0446	CHP's report? Whose report is this? Tell me whose report, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0793par0447	Dear friends, please let your words be worth a little while I tell you a bitter picture.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0796par0448	He wants to know, my friend.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0797par0449	He wants information, my friend.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0793par0450	This report is not ours at the beginning of my speech to you...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0798par0451	Who does it belong to?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0793par0452	...it doesn't belong to our group; this report does not belong to the human rights foundation...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0799par0453	Which one?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0800par0454	What foundations?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0801par0455	What foundations?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0456	...the figures determined by the reports of the Human Rights Association, the European Court of Human Rights.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0800par0457	Why are you hiding it?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0458	I wish these numbers were wrong, I wish these numbers weren't like this.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0803par0460	Congressmans, let's not interfere. You're welcome to participate, but let's not disturb the heart.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0461	We live in a country where there are partial freedoms in the Internet. Come on, you don't need to find anything. In terms of gender inequality, we are 125 percent of the world between 142 countries, friends. Guys, I see these numbers are bothering you. And I'm glad you're uncomfortable because I see you're taking this seriously.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0804par0463	Why bother?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0464	In terms of women's labour force participation, we're 128 percent among 142 countries, friends. I wish we weren't.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0804par0465	For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0466	Yes, for God's sake! I wish we weren't in the best places, but when you've been running this country for thirteen years and someone gives you a report card, they say...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0804par0467	And who will give the report card to Turkey? People gave us the report card, people! He gave it to me at 50 percent.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0805par0468	The people give the report card, the people give it to the people!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0469	...but you look like a kid who's been lying around all year and then looks weak on his report card and says, "Oh, my God."
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0806par0471	Congressmans, please... Mr. Horseman, please don't make such a fuss with the MPs.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0473	If there was any research in Parliament in respect of the parliamentarians, you'd probably be the last.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0807par0474	You talk about human rights, but you laugh. Look, you just laughed when you were talking about human rights.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0808par0475	Did you see the report card, the report card? Look at the report card, the report card.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0476	Unfortunately, in the poverty of children, our country is last.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0807par0477	You're caught, you're caught!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0809par0478	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0479	I'm afraid our country is last on child poverty, and I'll say it once again. Our country is third in the world in terms of children's brides, unfortunately, in terms of the frequency of children's brides, laugh at this and laugh at that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0810par0480	Your legacy, your legacy.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0481	We are third in the world in terms of children's women and children's brides. We're good at human rights violations, we're on top, we're in fifth place. We've entered the first 3 € in terms of abuse against journalists. It's beautiful. We are the 3rd of 117 countries. Look, fellas, being a hero is a big deal.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0811par0485	That's right.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0486	Bravely, you will come out and criticize me on this stand as a young man.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0812par0487	Name the source.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0488	Where you're sitting, it doesn't do much good to make sense of it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0813par0489	Source, source.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0490	That's why this bench is empty. Look, you can talk in any article, you can make any motion, you can speak for yourself, but you come in here and you talk to every hack you sit on instead of information, hardware, experience.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0814par0491	Let's hear the source.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0492	It didn't do any good in the history of Parliament.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0815par0493	We'd like to know the source of the report.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0816par0494	Whose report is it, the report?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0495	In the 24th century, none of our fellow speakers like you are here today in this Parliament, and our friends who raised their voices here have not been able to look up. So, if you're looking for a benefit, don't worry about it, because it's not working. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, we're 142nd in 183 countries at birth, in 183 countries, in terms of the mother's death.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0817par0498	Come on, that's not right! Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0499	We're the 142nd.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0818par0500	No, this is the first time you've heard of it?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0501	In terms of infant death, the situation is extremely dire, we are among the countries where the baby died most, and we are 84th among 221 countries.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0819par0502	Your legacy, your legacy to Turkey.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0503	Business accidents are the most important human rights violations. We are the 1st in Europe on business accidents, the 3rd in the world. Oh, I wish this hadn't happened. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0820par0504	Oh, you're so sad, your eyes are so teary!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0821par0505	Brother Ramazan, were you chosen from Uranus, or were you chosen from Mars? These are the numbers the world knows.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0506	Corruption perception index... look, in our country, we're number 27 in Europe, in terms of the perception of corruption, the perception index of corruption.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0822par0507	Give me the 2002 numbers, 2002.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0823par0508	Give me some from 2002.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0509	Now, you can't tell me that Turkey's report card is good for human rights violations. It's dirty! It's dirty!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0824par0510	People gave us commendations, people gave us commendations, alhamdulillah.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0511	When you have a nation that trusts you, just now people give us our report card and give us 50 percent of the vote. You have to be worth 50 percent of the vote.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0825par0512	Why is everyone giving it to me?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0513	If you are not worthy of this 50 per cent vote, just as he slapped and buried your brothers, the Motherland Party, the Right Path Party, into the darkness of history, this saint nation will bury you and bury you! If you are not worthy of these votes, you will be placed on the dusty pages of history.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0826par0514	Don't tell us, tell people about it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0515	I told you to be brave, I told you to be brave, come and answer from this stand. If you have any courage, stand up on that stand, speak up as a young man.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0827par0516	Where is Namik Kemal?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0802par0517	There's no point in getting up here and yelling and acting in pack psychology.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0828par0519	Mr. Horseman, please, Mr. Horseman, please, it's not happening! It's not the language for a congressman.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0829par0520	Oh, boy, oh, boy! Boo you!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0830par0521	The chest comes in, you get another slap, you're used to it. These people aren't tired of slapping you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0831par0522	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0832par0523	I submit the third article to your votes, and I seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... the matter is accepted, the decision is sufficient.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0833par0524	There isn't, President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0834par0525	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0832par0526	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0834par0527	Mr. Horseman, when you finish your words...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0835par0528	You're the one coming from inside that pack! You're rude!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0832par0529	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers... Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0836par0531	He's made a very embarrassing statement that I don't think he's capable of treating himself in pack psychology, and I condemn him first. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0832par0532	Here you go, Mr. Botanci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0837par0538	Mr. President, dear friends, Mr. Horseman has mentioned several figures here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0838par0539	We've seen a lot of men come out of the pack. Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0832par0540	Congressmans, the speaker is on the stand, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0837par0541	We listen to all sorts of criticism; of course, we will not be offended by criticism as children of a culture that even the Prophet considers himself critical. However, it is not acceptable, it is not appropriate, it is not acceptable, it is not appropriate, to come in and speak in such a manner as the psychology of the herd, or to address it in a manner that is offensive, in a manner that is offensive.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0839par0542	Look up a little bit, shame! Look up, I'm telling you!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0840par0543	Are you talking to me? Don't be rude! Throw it away, that's all we need. It suits you! Violence suits, and inhumane treatment suits! You dirty man!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0841par0544	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0842par0545	Why are you talking about your position? Don't talk about your position, listen to me.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0840par0546	Sir, he's assaulting us.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0843par0547	The MPs are here...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0842par0548	That's what you just said, don't talk about your place!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0844par0549	Congressmans, I'm interfering, please... Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0845par0551	Here, in a civilized environment, there are 12 international contracts. Mr. Horseman also knows that we have an agreement of intent and will to close the House by removing these contracts today. Now, come out here, talk, make a motion, make a motion. It's an obvious provocation, and it's not appropriate. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0846par0554	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0847par0555	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0846par0556	I'll answer.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0847par0557	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0848par0558	Turn your face the other way or talk to the man in the back.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0847par0559	Congressmans, please, I beg you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0849par0560	Do you want an explanation, directly...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0847par0561	What did he say about your group?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0849par0562	He accused me of provocation, he said provocatation.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0847par0564	But he told Mr. Horseman, he didn't plagiarize your group.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0849par0565	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0847par0566	Here you go. If it's for your group, it's for your group. Here, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0849par0569	Mr. President, dear friends, during the speech of our friend, our teacher, Mr. Aytug Horseman, who was just speaking on behalf of our group...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0850par0570	What kind of teacher is that? What kind of a teacher is a person who calls a person a herd?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0849par0572	Wait a minute.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0851par0573	He says, Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0852par0574	What the hell! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0853par0575	Congressmans, please... Mr. Special, you're welcome.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0854par0577	Please start the time again...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0853par0578	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0854par0579	No, I'm not gonna start...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0853par0580	Okay, Mr. Special, go ahead and talk.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0854par0581	When we're here to allow these negotiations to continue in a tense environment, for God's sake, let no one be in a position to say such things to a group of vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0855par0582	Hey, buddy, say you're sorry, say you're sorry.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0854par0583	I'm just saying, one, a moment ago...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0855par0585	Say you're sorry.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0854par0586	I'm talking, wait a minute, listen a minute!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0856par0588	Congressmans, listen, but listen, listen.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0857par0589	Yeah, well, we're listening to your group vice president. We're listening to your group vice president, and you should respect that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0858par0590	You tell your man.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0859par0591	Oh, no, that's not gonna happen. Wait a minute! There's no such rudeness! There's someone in the name of a group across the street.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0860par0592	Apologize, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0861par0593	Look, we're not disrespecting you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0862par0594	Congressmans, listen up.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0863par0595	That's not gonna happen! That's not gonna happen, for God's sake! Look, my friends, this Parliament has been working for 12 hours, it's been working for 12 hours straight; this Parliament is working now because last week, when it snowed, the president of four groups, who were worried that something might happen to you on the ice when you return to your homes, said, "We're going to have a meeting, the 68th law will pass this week, and we -- MHP and us -- we will not make any group proposals, 12 international contracts will be discussed." The face of your group president is here, and we stand by what we promised. Don't think of it as a word today as an agreement, we did it for your health that day. The phrase used earlier refers to collective thinking in a political context.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0864par0598	Don't tell me, don't tell me! We know what it is.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0863par0599	Other than that, no one has ever turned around and told you you're full of shit.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0865par0600	Mr. Free, don't do that, please, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0863par0601	▪ The psychology of the flock was used in political terminology.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0865par0602	No, it wasn't like that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0863par0603	If there's any other feisty in the name of my friend, not in the name of our group, I'm telling all of you myself: there's no such thing if you've ever thought about the components that make up the word "drunk..." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll apologize to those who think so, but the psychology of the herd is to act collectively, without thinking the words. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit08spe0866par0607	I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0866par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 27. The commission is here. The government is here. The negotiations on the entire bill are over. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, the Court of Human Rights and Main Freedoms, as a result of a clear vote on the ratification of Protocol 15 that Brings Changes to the Contract: ▪ Number of votes used : 195 [[x]] Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Court's Bill of Law and Foreign Affairs Report, which will be ranked in the 6th place before the Autoprocession of Personal Data. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by 28 rows. Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan has been asked to speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the entire bill. Here you are, Mr. Aydoğan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0867par0031	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Dear friends, I'm a member of the Plan and Budget Commission. Today the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports was discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission. In a critical approach during the budget talks, a member of the ruling party there criticised our co-chair, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ. We put our backs on the PYD. We put our backs on the YPG. He criticised us by quoting a speech he made in the form of YPG. Since I didn't have time at the commission meeting, I couldn't answer there, so I'd like to make an assessment from here on out. Now, dear friends, our Co-Chair, is right, Suruç, on a day of celebration of the liberation of Kobani, we put our backs on the YPG. After we've already used this statement -- as you will remember -- there have been evaluations made by the Prime Minister, especially by some lawmakers, including the President. Evaluations have gone beyond critical levels from time to time, becoming a threat, blackmail, target. But anyway, we, the People's Democratic Party, think that PYD, YPG, and YPJ are not a terrorist organization for us. We don't see YPG, NYD, YPJ, as a terrorist organization. We're not the only ones who haven't seen it. France, for example, has hosted and hosted the YPG, the PYD, at the presidential level of Elysees Palace. Mr. Asian Abdullah, the co-Chair of the PYD, has also gone to France in women's military clothes of the YPG commanders, and has been honoured by the President's office at Elysees Palace. Again today, the PYD does not view the YPG as an American terrorist organization. So, last time an US official came to Turkey, Mr. Prime Minister, he insisted that the PYD and the PKK are the same for us, for us, the PYD, the PKK, ISIS are the same. Therefore, we do not want the PYD to take part in the talks in Geneva. Despite what the U.S. says, we consider the PKK to be a terrorist organization, but we do not see the PYD as a terrorist organization. So you might be able to identify the PYD, the YPG, as a terrorist organization. So the definition of terrorism is different for everyone, different for everyone. What you see as a terrorist organization is that no one else sees it as a terrorist organization. And there's no complete description of it in the world. Therefore, it does not indicate that the YPG, PYD, and YPJ, are a terrorist organization. I mean, you work so hard at it, you work so hard, you try to run a study like this, but you don't get any results from it. Now, what I'm saying is, why don't we call the PYD, the YPG, the terrorist organization, why don't we consider it a terrorist organization? It's very important. Look, dear friends, in the civil war in Syria on July 19, 2012, the Kurds who lived there, the Kurds in Rojava, did not take sides with Assad, nor with other forces, they themselves followed a third road, a third line, and declared their freedom revolutions on July 19, 2012. Are there any other people there who have suffered as much as the Kurds in Syria, who have suffered from the Assad regime?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0868par0037	But you're together now.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0867par0038	Kurds whose tongues are banned, Kurds without identity; those who can't go to college, those who can't read, those who are not educated are Kurds. Are they going to be involved with the Assad regime, which has done so much cruelty to themselves, which has implemented such a great policy of assimilation? What are the expectations? The expectation was that after the PYD announced the YPG freedom revolutions, the Assad regime would attack the freedom revolution that was declared here, it was expected, but it wasn't expected, it wasn't. Who attacked you? Look at 2012. Al-Qaeda, Al-Qaeda, and Rojava, with the Kurds, began to attack this revolution, which they had jointly proclaimed with the Alevis, the Suryanites, the Keldanis, and the Arabs. And do you know where they got their power when they did all this? In 2012 -- as a person who spent at least two months or three months in Ceylanpınar -- yes, they came and went freely through our Ceylanpınar border, where they tried to attack their revolutions on self-governance, their logistical support because they were able to get all their support, because they could afford it, so they went to the Ceylanpinar border, using its door as a neighboring door, where the Kurds declared themselves, and they tried to wipe out the gains of the Kurds there. Why do you think they did that? There's got to be a reason for this, right? What is ISIS doing there? Al Qaeda? Why is he so opposed to this revolution, this revolution of freedom that the Kurds have declared? Don't they say they represent Islam, or do they not say we are the purest Muslim? They consider themselves representatives of Islam. A people there, oppressed, exploited, who can't speak their language, speak their identity, or speak their right to live; an opportunity was born, they declared their freedom, but look, come, they attack this people there. What should these people do? Won't he defend himself? From 7 to 70, the people of Rojava were organized, where the Kurds were organized along with other peoples; here they are, what we call the YPG, the YPJ, the 18-year-old majority, the 20-year-olds, the 25-year-olds, and now the number is 75,000. Yes, the number of public defence troops in Rojava is 75,000 and 75,000, so let's say, with a small army, the Kurds defend themselves against human enemies, against ISIS, and the struggle has been approved by the entire world. November 1st, the world was declared Kobani Day. In Kobani, especially at 18 years old, 20 years old, the whole world admired how young girls fought against ISIS by throwing themselves to death, sacrificing themselves, especially when she was involved in such a struggle. Isn't that right? Where in the world is a woman like that? He's gonna protect his land with his gun against those violent gangs, and he's gonna protect himself; is there any type of woman like that? No. Now, what is a P.D.A. to the organizational structure of this community, a ring that runs such a struggle? It's a party like us. It is a political, democratic party founded in Rojava. People's defence troops were formed after ISIS's attack, which is also called YPG.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0869par0041	What about the party's army?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0867par0042	The Kurds have formed an organization to defend themselves, the peoples there. How do we identify him as a terrorist organization? There's no such thing. Now, the gains of the people there are being made by the AKP government in Geneva, where they try to be eliminated by working to prevent the PYD from being taken into negotiations. That's not right, guys. The Kurds in Syria are friends of Turkey, just like the Kurds in South Kurdistan. At one time, Turkey struggled heavily with the lack of a federal structure in the South Kurdistan administration, making all kinds of unspeakable insults to the leaders there, but today Turkey is exporting 30 per cent to South Kurdistan. When the Habur Border Gate is closed, trade stops in Kayseri, production stops. When the Habur Border Gate closes, trade stops in Iconia, tourism stops, because everything stops today because Turkey is the middle capital; yes, Kayseri capital, the internal Anatolia capital, all of them are working on exports to South Kurdistan. Look where we've come from. Turkey cannot control every development in the world, the government of Turkey. Whether you want to or not, after the Geneva talks in Syria, a step will be taken to establish a democratic Syria. The Kurds will have a status to govern themselves, whether you want to or not, and they define it as democratic autonomy, which they describe as self-management, which they want to rule with the peoples who live in Syria. This is the outcome of the Geneva talks, this will come out, nothing will come out, this is what the United States wants today, this is what Russia and China want, and this will come out. There, once the Kurds have the right to rule themselves, Turkey -- no matter what government -- will have to associate with the autonomous structure there. Just as we have close relations with the Kurdish Federation government today, just as Mr. Barzani will come to Turkey today, and we will all see that in the same conditions, the democratic, autonomous government in Rojava will come to Turkey, and we will all see that if he is sitting there, putting his flag there, putting the Kurdistan flag there, if he is meeting, if he is making diplomatic visits, not much more than three or five years later.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0870par0045	Is this the Syrian Parliament?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0871par0046	Is this the Syrian Parliament? What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0870par0047	What is this place?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0872par0048	Wait a minute... Turkey will have the largest economic share in Syria, which has been burned and destroyed today. How do all the contractors in Turkey go to South Kurdistan today, where they will go tomorrow? Turkey will make 10 per cent of its exports and 15 (15) of its exports there. So now we say that Turkey's interests are here. Turkey's interests are in the formation of democratic Syria, and in the democratic Syria, it will be supported by the self-government of Kurds to rule themselves. If that happens...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0873par0050	You're gonna build it together?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0872par0051	No, no, no. This is how it will be seen. I gave you an example from the past, which is, you know, I gave the government of the Kurdish Federation to the Iraqi Kurdistan, and that's how it's going to be. So, from such a front, there's no need to object too much.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0874par0052	I wonder who the P.D.A. is doing this for.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0872par0053	Together, I think we should support democratic Syria, and the gains of the Kurds there, in terms of Turkey's democratic future.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0874par0054	Is Russia making partner with him, america making partner with him, Iran making partner with him, who's behind you?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0872par0055	Therefore, the Geneva talks have been postponed once again.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0874par0056	Don't think they'll give them a life there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0872par0057	You know, today's talks in Geneva were to be held, not done.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0874par0058	They're gonna use you as pawns, then they're gonna throw you away, they're gonna make you puppets, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0872par0059	The United Nations has postponed their talks to Geneva for 15 days or so. We hope and hope that in 15 days and 20 days, this Geneva talks will be held, where the democratic Syrian Assembly, which is now involved in the PYD, will be at the level of representation and will also be part of the democratic Syrian Assembly in the formation of democratic Syria.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0874par0060	You can go arm in arm with Assad. You're already killing with Assad's powers, all kinds of them. You go arm in arm, arm in arm, as you go now.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0872par0061	I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0875par0063	I hereby submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0876par0064	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0875par0065	You're late. Sustained. THE PROGRESS OF CONTROLATION OF PERSONAL VICTIMS IN THE CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION OF THE CONTROL OF THE CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION OF THINGS MADDE 1- (1) was approved on January 28, 1981 in Strasbourg, with the declarations of the Protection of Individuals Convention against Autoprocessing Personal Data. On the 1st article, the People's Democratic Party Group has asked for a statement on behalf of Siirt MP Besime Konca.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0877par0071	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, Mr. President, I need you to place this decision in your place as your duty.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0875par0072	You ask on time, as your duty, I'll do it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0877par0073	I think it should be fulfilled if it's a constant reminder.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0878par0074	You'll want it on time.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0877par0075	We asked for it on time, but Mr. President is doing something other than seeing it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0878par0076	You'll do your part, then.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0877par0077	If you remind everyone of this Charter, I think you should, too. Now, actually, there are a lot of issues being discussed. As we say, there may be a lot more laws here, laws, laws made by the unilateral vote of the government, which can be fulfilled by what mentality, by what performance, by what work bases in the House. Very serious assessments can be made of how the pursuit will be open to the opposition, how the opposition will apply them in practice, how it will be criticised. He's just shown with very concrete data from the CHP Group what state Turkey is in, what reality is, how the night-time decisions that have been made in these chairs, in these seats, have been developed over the years have not been implemented; increasingly, how badly Turkey has gone; with his youth, with his future, with his daughter, with his wife, with violence; with economic, educational problems and inequalities; with the nature massacre. But the government is only verbally reactive in its order. What the government will do... if you make these laws, you're a government by yourself, and you've had thirteen years of experience, and you haven't taken over one of them, and you've been running this country for thirteen years. Every single one of you is present, every one of you has a case, every one of you has a case, and it says, "Well, there are three parties -- three opposition parties -- everyone has something to tell us, and everyone will criticize us." So we have concrete data on all of them, we have files on all of them -- we come out, we take our opposition, our right to say, "No, count, you've given this number, you've done this criticism; these are our official numbers, our official data, our changing situations. That is the duty of the governments. And we said the other day, yes, that we, as politics, as power, will do the opposition of that by morning, even if it is the morning, we will express our criticism. And if power wants to be serious, if he really wants to share the concrete consequences of what he's doing with this Parliament, he's going to have to do a lot more of these preparations, and let's say that we expect something like this in the coming process. I think there's backstage politics, there's empty seats, there's a hand down, and there's no laws being made here that run Turkey; there's an economic system provided with international forces, hot money going abroad, transfers, and for that, I think they don't know very much what the problems of the people are, and how the parliamentary parliamentarians, who are actually in power, who are in power, who are elected by the people, are actually in power; how they don't know very much what the problems of the people are. It's run by a top-level policy, maybe the Council of Ministers has concrete data on it, but maybe it's because they don't discuss it with its own parliamentarians, with its deputies, that's why the files don't come here too much, so we're not convinced as opposition. Now, you've said a lot of things about terrorism. We, of human rights, are accused of terrorism when we say that public struggle should be a development for all peoples, a democracy, a transformation and a revolution. In fact, there are many acts of terrorism in which Turkey is violent in itself. Look, in general, we can also talk about the old processes -- the Esref Bitlis thing, the Ridvan Özden thing, there's a lot of serious stuff. When the deep government wants to mount war, violence within itself, they have committed murder on their own, even though it is a high-ranking general in the process that Turkey does not want to democratize, even though it has taken serious war decisions to fight the Kurdistan Workers' Party for years, we have broken it down by television. There's so much more, we don't have time for this. For this reason, you can see that these massacres, events within themselves in the Kurdish provinces that have been imposed today in Kurdistan, the events within the gladiator itself, the patterns within itself, still, two hours ago, we will be able to resolve, we need to be resolved again. You can see this by understanding from past experiences the approach of this deep power that is still in those houses that have been bombed and still persisting in the war, and you can read it, and you can share it with us as a political power in the Parliament. Yes, the PKK has been fighting for years, and has paid a great price. Look, every day the Joint Chiefs has serious statements on their website, saying we've killed 100, 300, 500, 5,000. We didn't discuss it one by one, did we? But let me tell you, how many soldiers were killed here, killed in a conflict environment, and if you're saying that the destruction in all these provinces is being done by young people behind the ditch, then how many military Panzers did they drag behind or what kind of vehicles they have? How many women did he strip and kill naked and then rob and throw away?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0879par0084	It's not like that, it's not like that!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0877par0085	How many had his head cut off and then between his legs... look, the woman was murdered in Sur, her head beheaded, and when she went to the hospital for an autopsy report, her head was between her feet.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0880par0086	You did it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0877par0087	Who did all this, Lokman Union? In the 1990s, the mindset that slaughtered, killed, then stepped on his head, and took pictures of him was the mindset that applied terror. We say a lot of things here every day in the reality of conflict. It's all terror, it's all terror. How many soldiers have been bombed by those who fought on the mountain, fought on the mountain, protected themselves physically on the mountain? How many rockets have they thrown into the grave of many soldiers, who have once killed so many of our friends? In recent years in Turkey... look, those fascists from September 12 or 1990, even those villages who had been evacuated, burned, destroyed, killed ten years, 20 years ago, and were not able to get people to buy... then you had to make the law -- you would investigate those mass graves, you didn't do it -- and he did it, and he brought them back with his own hands, and he made a tomb, at least I would go away and say my prayers. You didn't even put up with it, and you bombed all those graves, with the headstone... and then you said, "They were ammunition there." There's no ammunition on your tombstone, there's no gravestone. Look, some governors have decided, the trustees have made a decision, they have sent it to municipalities, and he said: "You will wipe off the graves of those gravestones." Ten years, fifteen years, 20 years ago, even with the dead person who wanted to deal with it, and today this society has experienced it, and today this Parliament has to question it. It's like that all over the world, historically. Most of the time, the power that came to power was always power poisoning, whether it was elected by the majority vote, by impact or by the polling system, and it always ended up on its own. And today, power poisoning in Turkey is not limited to Turkey alone. That's what happened in international relations. So today, Turkey's lack of neighbors, today... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is the result of discussing what happened with Syria or the NYD.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0881par0091	It's over, it's over.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0877par0092	The PYD was good when Solomon brought the Shah Temple to the village of Cove, wasn't it?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0882par0093	Come on, it's over. Talk to me next week.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0883par0094	Let's go, let's go!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0877par0095	It was a reality that you cared about, that you operated on, but today, the PYD is a terrorist, isn't it? When it suits you...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0884par0096	Mr. Konca, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0877par0097	You're not terrorists, you're in business together.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0884par0099	Mr. Konca...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0885par0100	The NYD is a terrorist organization, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0877par0101	It's not your P.Y.D. internal problem. As long as you don't want someone else involved in your internal problems...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0886par0102	Time's up.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0887par0103	Mr. Konca...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0877par0104	Leave it to yourself. And we're gonna fight it. Good evening.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0887par0107	I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Bitlis MP Mizgin Irgat... Here you go, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0888par0113	Mr. President, dear members, I've actually made a promise about this before. Although the Convention on Protection of Individuals is related to the Autoprocession of Personal Data, I repeat today's meeting, the collection of personal data and the law that seems to be a good law at this point is a violation of human rights. So I'm going to repeat my criticism of this. So the opponents who have been saying about the tag process in Turkey for years, and we think that by this law, the most intimate of individuals, sex, family, sexual orientation, all sorts of personal data have been plugged into a warehouse. Therefore, it cannot be mentioned as a progress law or as a law protecting individuals, protecting individuals. In essence, this AKP government has made it seem like I've been doing something good for years, but in fact, we see it as a development where it doesn't do much under it, but rather restricts rights to autocratic, dictatorial regimes. Thus, as we study this law, we feel that there will be serious problems ahead. [[Erzurum MP Zehra Taşkesenlioğlu put the electronic device cap on and off at all times]] Don't make that noise! Mr. President, may I have your attention...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0889par0117	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0888par0118	As a congressman, you'll learn to listen, you'll learn.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0889par0120	Mr. Orator, please address the General Rule.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0888par0121	I do, but he's trying to provoke me.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0890par0122	Love... slander...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0888par0123	So I don't think it's a good development to make the personal life, family relationships, personal structure, and the most private space of individuals involved in personal data look like it's a good thing in the framework of a law. In that sense, we'll be critical of this bill in the subcommittee. So it's a tag law. There's no way...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0891par0124	The Council of Europe...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0888par0125	Maybe, maybe... we haven't joined the European Union yet, since we're discussing a law on the European Union. It's got nothing to do with it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0891par0126	It's not the Union, it's the Council.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0888par0127	Therefore, we feel that any work done on this subject is against the law, the law, human rights and freedoms.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0891par0128	The opposition is a martyr...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0888par0129	Indeed, the position of this House, the working system of this House, the level of maturity of this House is debatable. At this hour, here, if you come in from outside just to vote, at least listen to the conversation...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0891par0131	Where are you?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0892par0132	We're with the public. Where you're not.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0888par0133	So, we're not saying that the AKP government...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0893par0134	President, that's a terrible thing to say. We want him to apologize.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0894par0135	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0888par0136	And what are you trying to do? Here, let me talk to you about what you want. Talk about what? Allow me. Here, let's talk about whatever you want to talk about. Let's call it what you want.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0895par0137	That the PKK had taken lives, that it had kidnapped millions of people...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0894par0138	Congressmans, let's not interfere...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0888par0139	Anyway, if you do your duty, since you claim to be the majority of this country, you're occupying these ranks, at least on behalf of these people, do something positive for the people you vote for, the people you take responsibility for, show your political maturity.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0896par0140	It's not appropriate to say "invade," but now!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0888par0141	You know, here, all these people, they expect something to be done from this House. People really, really think that there's some serious business going on here -- very, unfortunately, economically and in every area -- so these people who have 49 percent of the vote think they're doing some serious work here, but unfortunately, they're wrong. You're already saying that in your own way, in your own work, in all sorts of words. And at the point of telling the truth, we will always say what we want and tell the truth. Therefore, we, the People's Democratic Party, are obliged to expose your wrong policies, your war policies, the violence that has been committed, and all the illegalities that have been committed. So here, under the roof of this House, we've submitted several research proposals, on everything. At the human rights point, at the point of problems in the region, and at the point of problems that we all actually accept, you all said no. Without thinking, without arguing, without considering the possibility that it was true, you said no. You refused. So you guys, yeah, I don't want to use the same words, but you're acting together in a mindset. As individuals, each of you has all the problems of this country as a deputy of one province, speaking about all its problems, objectively, committed to its oath, but you're doing demagogue here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0897par0145	What law were we discussing, Mizgin? Congressman, what law were we discussing?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0898par0146	Go to the theater, to the theater!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0888par0147	So we know very well what you're doing.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0898par0148	We know yours!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0899par0149	We know you, too!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0888par0150	These people know exactly what you're doing. Really, we...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0898par0151	People know what we're doing, so they gave us 50%.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0900par0152	Congressmans, please don't interfere. Here you go, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0901par0154	I mean, I asked, but if you're going to decide what we're going to talk about, like you're doing outside...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0902par0155	You're going to talk about the 2nd article, the 2nd article.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0901par0156	So we already know there's no freedom of expression here. We know that very well with the cases, the trials, the people who were arrested. For years in the courts, we've been critical of them. We already know what's been going on in prison for years since a journalist was sentenced to death in prison. But don't do it in Congress. I mean, at least in public, at least not here. Have patience, endure, endure the existence of HDP, endure the existence of Kurds, endure the truth.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0903par0158	Because you don't tolerate the existence of Kurds, because of the terrorist organization, you support...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0901par0159	Oh, for God's sake, shut up.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0903par0160	You're victimizing Kurdish citizens there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0901par0161	Anyway, now, so, at this hour...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0903par0162	You're a spokesman for oil companies, international capital, imperialism! You will pay this price in front of history!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0901par0163	We know exactly what you're doing, the whole world knows it, the whole world. There's a lonely Turkey.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0903par0164	You're a spokesman for imperialism, you're a trumpeter.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0904par0166	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0901par0167	There's a lonely Turkey. You are condemned by all your policies, alone in the world. But the only party that advocates peace, defending the brotherhood of the peoples, is the People's Democratic Party. Whichever one of you opens your mouth, you're talking about war, violence. You don't have any project on the brotherhood, on the solution, and you don't have that kind of attitude. So you can't stand the People's Democratic Party who managed to defend it despite all the attacks. That's your problem. Because if these attacks were to happen to you, you'd be melted right now. Stop getting so many votes, you've just melted. Therefore, the HDP will continue to expose you here and continue to express your wrong policies. We'll continue our work. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0905par0171	Congressmans, please... On the 2nd article, in the name of the groups...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0906par0173	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0905par0174	Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0907par0175	Where's Semih Özbey Petty Officer? Where's Vedat Kaya?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0908par0176	I'm not even curious about your name.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0909par0177	You turned this place into a white TV broadcast!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0910par0178	You serve the BP, you serve Shell, you serve the Total. You serve global capital. You serve arms dealers.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0911par0179	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0910par0180	You'll pay for it in the future.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0911par0181	Mr. Özkan... Please... Look, it's after midnight. We're in serious business here.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0912par0186	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the AKP Group has a lot to say. I mean, you can't solve this problem with this kind of teasing, this kind of talk. I'd like to refer to the conversation you made that day. It was a very valuable speech, but we see that none of the friends here fit in. So, you have the right to talk, to express yourself, to talk, you have ten minutes, you have 20 minutes; he comes out, he talks on the stand. Don't interrupt or interfere with the character who spoke on the stand... in fact, you've expressed that before, it was very important. I wish you'd tell me when these AKP lines are full, not when they're free. Well, then it's better, I guess, it'll be understood. I appreciate it, but really, there's not just interference, there's insults. We're going to ask for the transcripts, and we're going to get him to apologize to lawmakers in accordance with the reports. Let me make this very clear. There are threats, and we see them, and we know it. We're going to identify all of this, and we're going to make him really apologize. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0913par0192	What are you gonna do when you figure it out?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0914par0196	On behalf of the Republican People's Party group, Manisa MP Free Special has asked for a statement on the 2nd article. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0915par0199	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you what I consider very important, when it's exactly where I'm standing, when the House is concerned about all this, when I've found it relevant to the bench. The issue is the approval of the Protection of Individuals Convention against Autoprocessing Personal Data. The privacy of personal data is extremely important. The failure of Turkey to make a legal arrangement for the protection of personal data in both the European Union and its own process was a major flaw. It is being discussed in the commission and is being tried to make progress on the matter. Of course, they're warning our friends at the commission there, and we're warning them. This area is a very dangerous area. The protection of personal data should be essential. In terms of defined exceptions, the above draft has some very critical points. In this international agreement, the groups have a unanimous vote, but I would like to present a very relevant and relevant issue, especially to the ruling party group and to the attention of the Minister. In fact, since I've brought this up, I've been sued by the Plan Budget Commission, both on the assembly stand and on the Plan Budget Commission, for 60,000 lira compensation, and the court has finally made a decision. I'll also mention the court's decision. The most important problem in Turkey is actually the world's most important problem with orphaned diseases and orphaned drugs. So the orphan who's higher than one in ten thousand says you're an ultra-ethnic orphan, which is less than one in 100,000, and it's not profitable for commercial companies to produce the drugs of the world and to produce the drugs of them. No one's trying to cure these diseases, produce drugs. The opposite of a national lottery happens to someone, and that family is devastated. The price of the drug can be $90 billion, it can be $35,000, I mean, with the old money, it can be $90,000, but the repayment systems don't pay for it, and they haven't even studied the exact protocol of the treatment, and they've come up with some solutions after a very long discussion about world orphan disease and orphan medicine. For example, all their expenses are paid from a pool, in which the people who make money from the healthcare area are paid for by them. So they're saying that we have a policy on orphan medicine, that all expenses will be coordinated by the state. The pharmaceutical company, which receives 10 per cent from the drug market in Germany, will cover 10 per cent of the costs. It is such a system so that if a family faces an unfortunate situation, the tiny baby will not be sentenced to death or struggle with death if he has money or has no money, and the social security system does not have to be forced to meet them. Turkey doesn't have it, it's our shame, it needs to be resolved. But there are orphan medicines in the world, and no one brings them to Turkey. The Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals took one step 15 years ago, signed a protocol with the state, and began bringing orphan medicines of these orphaned diseases to Turkey. Later, this was converted to cancer drugs that were not licensed in Turkey; then, to all the drugs that were not registered in Turkey; then to all the drugs that were not available in Turkey; and then to all the drugs that the state, the relevant ministries, could not cure. After the Turkish Pharmaceutical Union approved the prescription at the Ministry of Health, the money was taken from the state -- the money was taken from the state -- and after a protocol with the Treasury -- and without bringing any burden to the citizen -- from any of the 24,000 pharmacies in Turkey at present, the pharmacist informs the Turkish Pharmaceuticals Association about this prescription. The Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals brings that drug, even though it's on the other side of the world, which now holds stock for 80 per cent of these drugs -- right up there at Cinnah's, Willy Brant-ta -- and delivers it to the patients' homes without even taking cargo money. He's not making any money at all, he's just charging for it, but of course, he's building a source with some trade discounts taken from the other side, and he's investing it in this area again. Because it's a public institutional professional organization. These things went so well, so well provided, the patients were so pleased, they received so many prayers. The work of the previous coalition government, or rather, the ministers of the coalition government before the AKP government, and the bureaucrats of the AKP government, are also very busy. We can't split anyone up on this. And the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals has put a lot of effort into it. Everything was fine, but a few years ago, why is this Turkish Pharmaceutical Union doing this on its own? There's no such thing as Hakuzur, only the manager pays for the plane, and there's an executive guesthouse in an apartment. And there's no managers who get off on it. One of the former presidents of this has been a member of the parliament for two semesters. But someone allelemed, got into the Ministry's head, and through a regulation change, the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals can do it, but private warehouses can do it. They brought it to the Ministry. I have to express quickly -- after this change in pressure from the environments to the ruling party, a former lawmaker's company stole the entire database through a doctor who was introduced to the Pharmaceuticals General Directorate, the entire database. We couldn't maintain personal data, personal health data, no regulation. He stole all the information, and I told him that. They're suing me for 60,000 lira. The case ended recently. He told me that everything I told him was true after an inspector who took my word for it, who took action and examined the matter, let alone pay compensation, something very important, something that we found out. I'm telling this story because I'm right, I've won a case, it's not that I won a case, it's not that I won a business, it's the lobby of the former MP, it's the ministers, it's the bureaucrats, it's that they don't get fooled, they don't have to lobby around here, they don't get fooled, they don't get fooled, they don't have to lobby, there's some fields where they have to be commercialized, it's the Association of Turkish Pharmaces, it's the Union of Turkish Medicines, it's the Union of Bars, it's the Union of the Bars, and there's got to do projects with them, but there's some fields that need to be no commercialization. The reason is that he took the patient's information and told the patient, "You're out of medicine, I'll get your medicine." For example, one type of hemophilia, factor 9, doesn't exist in Turkey, a one-in-a-million lack of factors. They go to the family, they say... When all of these hemophilia drugs are on a purple prescription in Turkey, I say as President of the Pharmaceutical Chamber that created the order system in Turkey: Think about the lack of conscience that tries to find hemophilia children and marry each other and sell that drug over generations of hemophilia. When you steal this data, it says that if we wing your girl's knee, factor 9 won't stop before it's used. I'm going to sell 30 billion dollars of medicine, and I'm going to give you 3 billion. I'm going to give it to a father who's moving for $30 a day. It's an entirely different account of conscience, a whole other human drama, a crime of humanity. That's why these laws, that's why these regulations are so important. I'm asking all of you, I'm asking the Minister -- especially the Minister of Customs -- that's an important part of the job -- let them stay out of the areas, not the fathers, the sergeant, the side, the brother, or whatever. If it were up to me, all of the politicians' relatives would be out of business, let them eat zoning, but no one would pursue the information of the hemophiliac children. We need to keep this country out of this kind of wrong. Let an ethical decision be made here, and let the Council of Ministers make a decision within themselves about preventing this kind of work as a result of political relations in the field of health at least, and let them put a will in it; we will arrange it together. Leave these jobs to the occupational organizations, and don't commercialize them. And the protection of these health data is more important than our country, all the parties in this Parliament, the way we all protect our dignity, our dignity, our dignity, everyone's getting the wrong idea about anything. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0916par0208	I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Hakkari MP Nihat Akdoğan wants to speak on the matter. [[Applause from HDP rows]] You've had ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0917par0215	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, it's already been this way, maybe the government's speech was right in this process, about the moving of the provinces, this is the moving of Hakkari (Hakkari) and Şırnak. Dear friends, each city has its history, its history, its history, its culture, and it has a history of thousands, tens of thousands of years until it becomes a city. In this history, it's a city, leaving behind great crushes, great heroics, great cultural heritage. Look, the city we're in is a city in 1924, it's connected to Van. It's a province in 1936, but today the government... Dear friends, we think about how important Parliament is here. Each of us comes from a different place; we bring a different culture, a different ideology; we try to express ourselves in democracy. You are trying to reduce the land of Ahmadi Hani, the land of Fakiye Teyran, the land of Ali Hariri. Look, we just told you, we're going to move this place to a city that has no industry, no agriculture, no livestock, a city that's an officer's town. Dear friends, if we're going to talk about the democratic politics of the 21st century, if we're going to talk about democracy, how can we suddenly replace cities with the decision of two people? And where we're going, let me tell you first, the government's bureaucrats there don't like it because of its geographical structure. Look, we built an airport there. We're not against it. The government also had a saying to them here: "Here we are going to make the province of Highova. You can't do it, now you're coming directly, we're going to bring this city back to town. You've built an airport there for four and a half months, dear friends, in winter, the plane can't land there, the floor is clay, it's reed. I mean, if your wish is to improve the city, we're all okay with it, but there's no such thing. There is a sudden decision to adopt the place where many people live today. So, where do we take these people? No city, no capacity to carry that city. But suddenly in three months we'll change the signs... I don't find it right. Dear friends, if you're willing to consider a place where thousands of officers work, not the ditches of the city, but the families of the thousands of people who are working there, and have 30,000 people migrate, if your consciences agree, we don't say anything. Dear friends, people from there are meeting directly with government officials here. It's really there -- maybe it's not the issue right now -- but there's been a really big break in government right now. Despite the book that you published, published by the Ministry of Culture, I would like to point out that in all its rhetoric, when the government, the Prime Minister, the President, is talking about Ahmadi Hani, we have no right to come out of nowhere and complain about Ahmadi Hani's bones and the bones of many of them. Dear friends, maybe not just to tire you out when our friends are coming here, but if you're actually bringing laws to this Parliament, every party should have a say here. Talk about what? We're talking personal data. The people who live here today and work at the highest level of politics, the personal data of none of us, can we be 100 percent sure of this, will not be released in the press tomorrow, and if we don't come over here and say what we're saying, those tapes that have been put in place, if we don't discuss the situation that most people share their namahrem information with the public... here, the HDP is torturing us here. The public sent us here, so we'll be here until the last hour, until the final point of view. Our goal here is not to disturb anyone. That's what we're here for. Today our country has many problems. This is the place to discuss these problems, and this is the place to say the word. We don't need our friends to be uncomfortable about this. While I have found the government here, I really would like to ask that this decision against Hakkari (Hakkari) be reviewed in particular. Indeed, I think it is necessary for the government to move this city to the town level without the demand of the people there, without the will, to be taken into consideration. I salute our friends.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0918par0228	I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. So the negotiations on the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, under open vote against the Autoprocession of Personal Data, it is appropriate to ratify the Protection of Individuals Convention: ▪ Number of votes used: 190 [[*]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the National Defence Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which will be ranked 7th in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and Agreement on Defence Industry Co-operation between the Government of the Somali Federal Republic. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of four rows. Isparta MP Nuri Okututan on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on behalf of groups who want to speak on behalf of the entire bill. Mr. Reader, please. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0919par0254	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Movement Party Group to ratify the defence industry agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Somali Federal Republic. I salute everyone with respect and respect. Now that he's been stubborn, I'd like to pass on all our work to you. In fact, more than Somalia, we may need to talk about Africa, because I think Africa is an incredibly important continent for both our country's economic future and our cultural connection, and there's a very serious gap in it. In this regard, about Somalia, it will briefly include the historical process of Africa, and...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0918par0256	Congressmans, there's a hum in the hall. Please, the preacher is speaking on the stand, so let's not disturb the character.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0919par0257	... And then, perhaps, recently, there are good studies of Africa, and I think they should be remembered here. Perhaps there are some flaws in it, and I wish to express them here. In fact, our relationship with Africa dates back to the 860s, and the children of Tolun begin with the Hussites, the Ayyubis, and the Mamluks. Later, the Ottomans and the Republic of Turkey and I had a relationship of 1,200 years. Turkey's relations with Africa, which dates back years and goes back to a primitive historical past, have been strong, but have been sometimes ups and downs. Algeria, Tunisia, Tripoli, Egypt and Ethiopia were managed by the manager, who was sent directly from Istanbul. On the other hand, Turkey actively supported the independence of African countries after World War II. Again, many African countries have modeled our country on issues such as the struggle for independence, the construction of secular, democratic institutions. Many of these independent countries have surely seen our young republic as an inspiration to the national fighting spirit of Ataturk and his friends, and Turkey has launched a comprehensive aid package programme that includes the State Planning Organization's Gambia, Guinea, Moritania, Senegal, Somali and Sudan. In 1998, our country's growing interest in Africa with the acceptance of the African Action Plan set the stage for the development of economic relations with African countries at the beginning of 2003 and for the declaration of the Year of Africa in 2005. In 2008, the Turkish-African Business Association Summit was organised and a period of restructuring of relations took place. Today, if we approve of these agreements and discuss how relationships should come to this point, I feel it is necessary to appreciate and remember the work that has been done so far. With the ability to create recognising power and synergy, particularly the work of TICA and NGOs will also mean giving away the rights. In addition to capacitance development activities, Turkey has signed many projects to provide social services such as schools and hospitals through TİKA and NGOs. These are good studies, when the model work of NGOs participates in these fine works, and I would especially like to share with you here that they have been doing outstanding and successful work, including creating small maintenance workshops, both the drinking water and water and agricultural techniques, with their own means, from Isparta, from Jalvac, from Süçillü, from Büçkabaca. They produced multi-purpose design and engineering tools that were made by my countrymen, also known as Patpat. And they especially helped those people, teaching them to extract base water and to use it in agriculture. Again, under the protection of Ruhan Özkan, the precious wife of our Governor of Isparta, Ruhan Özkan, the Isparta Governor of the European Union Projects Coordination Centre, the Community Mothers Project was implemented with the help of some of the relevant public institutions and organisations in the province, as well as of the neighborhood leaders. However, these well-intentioned good works should be carried as a model project for Africa, especially in terms of institutionalization and producing women across the country. Again, with the support of the Turkish Bar Association of Barrooms President Gökmen Hakmen Gökmenoğlu and the chairman of the Bar Women's and Children's Rights Commission, Attorney Ayfer Eseryel and a group of lawyers from the bar have been initiated a study, and this work should certainly benefit from these experiences, especially in order to strengthen the family union and prevent crime, in order to benefit our women and women from the equality of opportunity. Given the ruthlessness of competition in the international field, the African process, which has been perceived as admissible initiatives for our country, must be compared to the activities of countries such as China, India, the United States, Canada, Japan, Brazil. When we consider these countries, unfortunately we are still at the beginning of the road in Africa. Otherwise, we'll be taking small, large steps within ourselves. However, if this ruthless wheel is not followed closely, it will soon be satisfied with limited interactions and will not have much effect. Our number of embassies has also been increased in recent Africa, which is a good development. But is sufficient personnel being provided for our opening ambassadors? In fact, when an ambassador is being made, is it observed that the staff is sufficient to be ambassadors in the Foreign Office alone? To what extent will a diplomat who has not even the minimum level of information about the country he will take office represent our country there? Will he be content only with following ordinary diplomatic procedures between Ankara and its capital? It doesn't matter what country the diplomat belongs to, who doesn't know the continent, who can't connect with the continent, who knows that the chances of success are very slim. How many of our embassies are extremely important economic advisors? Do we know that the savings of African countries are always reflected in business circles as a subject of debate? The distance between young officers and diplomats who don't know the language of the countries they go to is extremely limited, are we not aware of that? In fact, the issue is not whether there are enough people in our country, but whether or not the necessary elections are being carefully raised. Aren't the officers sent on behalf of our public institutions another criticism about Africa without being equipped like our diplomats? If the officers who will leave immediately without serious training in Africa for vital tasks will be content only to fill that office, it will result in a remarkable consequence. At once, the officers appointed for these vital tasks must be given serious training on the region and the country before they are appointed, and should be appointed accordingly. It is known that our NGOs have done a variety of humanitarian aid in the continental countries. Unfortunately, in Africa's intercontinental and intercontinental event, there are serious indications that Turkey is being very shy. Our diplomats haven't established a network of relations that will put our country ahead of them in the past ten years, and they've been inept. It is clear that our country does not have enough academics for African research, while those who do not have the slightest expertise in this area are being made managers or even professors of research centers. The importance of Africa here has been understood by our rulers or decisionmakers, but this understanding is not enough to be implemented. He's a manipulative man, he's got a sense of recruitment, and these very vital tasks, unfortunately, don't come to any conclusions as expected. The leading local languages of Africa are taught by academic programmes in Paris, London, and many other Western cities, but Africa has a particular public-grown job deficit, and instead of being provided with a week, ten-day courses, at least six months, a year, they should be subjected to formalisation programmes, both before leaving our country and after leaving our country. The level of education in the continent is very low and limited, and the math is so little that it is not in many countries, Turkey has not yet taken serious action on this issue, it seems that it does not realize what that means. African students studying in Turkey are often said to be not the smartest children in the countries they are brought to. Turkey must undergo a very tight selection process for this project, which it spends millions of dollars on, and should not receive PhDs and even graduate students with three or five minutes of interviews. In education, especially in our universities, student flow must be provided with serious ease, including visas. For treatment services in Libya, citizens who want to come to Turkey must be granted visa ease. The immediate completion of the legal processes necessary to protect the rights of our citizens, who are economically involved with African businessmen and merchants; again, the completion of double taxation agreements with all countries must be made quickly. Instead of entering their helm water, especially in the government, France and the United States, it should contact the public directly and contact representatives rather than stand side by side with undetermined gangs under the name of the ruling groups. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council with respect and respect.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0920par0270	All over Bitlis MP Mizgin Irgat? There isn't. Talks are complete on all of them. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. As a matter of fact, I'd like you to know that the government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the United States of Turkey, the government of the United States, the government of the United States, and the government of the United States of Turkey, and the government of the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United States, and MADDE 1- (1) was approved of the Defence Industry Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Somali Federal Republic, signed on 25 January 2015 in Mogadishu. On the first article, Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Mr. Ironel, please. You've been on for ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0921par0279	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, it's late, we're all aware of that. But our friends have been on hunger strike for three days, at the same time, and we've been in this Parliament for three days, waiting late, waiting until morning, never getting out. And today we are all here to carry out Parliament's responsibilities and duties. I'd like to address some health policies in today's, present-day speech. We all know how much the problems with health are actually cathartic. Maybe we won't be able to tell it all together here, but I just want to talk to you about a few things. In private, health centers, maternity and child health centres have been established in the neighborhoods to address health care, children's health care, vaccine problems, and to ensure that the public benefits from health policies, health services are more comfortable. We've tried to create areas where public health care could benefit, but now we see that instead of public health care, the public's health centers have been considered a place in Diyarbakır, in rural neighborhoods, in Baghdad, and in the areas where many cities and towns are rural, poor, and in private, they've been evacuated as a building, and they've been used more as military headquarters. So while critical of health policies, it also requires that the public develop a free, comfortable health policy, unfortunately, even those who exist are out of our hands. So it's a policy to build outposts in areas where the public can easily reach, to put security forces there, to bring public and security forces against them. Yes, the hospital has been opened. We've seen the inadequacies of hospitals, the physical conditions, the staff who work there don't really have the ability to work in accordance with the circumstances. In private, when we look at the idea of management, it's a management process that's completely based on the over-the-top system of management in hospitals and health care, but everywhere, there must be people who determine who they want to work with, who they want to work with. What does a hill-to-wall assignment bring with it? He brings corruption with him. It does not require a good, quality service, but a situation that highlights individual interests by considering more profits. So both the physical conditions in hospitals and the working conditions of the medical staff there, the production of services, as well as the harmonisation of management. Yes, when we express health policies, we have said that it is important to listen to the problems of health workers one-on-one and work out a solution with them. Today, health workers have performed stand-up actions in Diyarbakır, Ankara, İstanbul, along with curfews, rights violations, and a country where health personnel were not properly protected and slaughtered. In particular, pressure on health workers, persecution, is well - known. The greatest example of this is that health workers, ambulances, and paramedics, are being killed on the road, unfortunately, in ambulances, and they are not able to perform health care, nor are they able to maintain their own lives. When we think of them as a whole, there is actually an understanding in health policy that makes greater investments in private sectors and strengthens the private sector more, rather than running free health care for the public. So, when we look at health policy in general, especially in terms of women's health and obstetrics, there's a mental state that closes the woman, just from a population density and demographic perspective. It's a pity that hospitals have to open day care, but women have to be confined to homes to give birth to children. We live in an environment where the woman will decide how many children of her own will, in a country, which, unfortunately, the President has reaped for women, which, at work, has already decided how many children she will give birth to. I would like to point out that we have expressed in the health of a child, in the health clinics, how many children women will make, which way they will use family planning, and that this service must be carried out in a healthier way, but we see that these opportunities are increasingly shortened, leaving women aside only by giving birth to children, other than giving birth, and evaluating them. We want to express that we never agreed to this. We want a country that allows women to live on their own will, to act on their own understanding of freedom and democracy. This is important in the general sense that women's work - both in health care and in employment - is made visible. For that, your woman is more... we've expressed it in the previous bag of laws, and I'd like to rephrase it. In part-time studies, which are said to have been paid by the unemployment fund, we say that, in fact, there are more employers who are losing money from the unemployment fund and that the funds paid to women are actually a fund that should be paid to the unemployed. So we suggest, in general, women -- let's eliminate the age limit of women who have completed their ministry by making a positive distinction. If we want to do a study, then we can make it very clear that we can go beyond the practice that has been implemented in the past period, and not by making a positive distinction with women, but by not being able to deal with the age of the women who have actually completed their ministry, rather than with the wages that should be paid from the unemployment fund. Actually, it's kind of hard to talk, listen and perceive at this hour, and I know you're not listening. But I say we keep talking and telling and listening. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0922par0292	I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Van MP Tuğba Hezer Ozurk on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Mr. Hezer Ozturk. Is it true?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0923par0297	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0922par0298	Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, but you can cut it shorter, it's yours.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0923par0301	I won't hurt you, I'll talk to you for ten minutes. Mr. President, Congressmans, yes, I'd like to talk to you about ISIS.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0924par0303	This is Somalia.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0923par0304	I know it's Somalia, but I can tell you that when it comes to international connections, dialogues, diplomacy, obviously, we get goose bumps, and right now, at this time, we're dealing with a Middle Eastern reality where we have a temperature. So as a member of an opposition party, I want to express my thoughts on what I'm talking about. Now, the Prime Minister of this country, a group of angry people, said Ankara, Suruç, Diyarbakır, had shown patience for those who had committed those massacres, but on the other hand, we were able to put up with patience and arrest people because he had thrown only one. On the other hand, again, a group of angry people, who we call "a group of people" and all the massacres that the whole world has cursed, and Turkey put up with this organization, and it said, "We have a list of live bombs, but how do we get them before they blow themselves up?" He says, "How do we get them? How do we get them before they explode?" He says, "Let them explode and we collect their pieces." That's how he says we'll fight ISIS. I'm sorry, there's no fighting the fragmented parts of ISIS. What's worse is, you know, there's a big fight against ISIS in Rojava, and it's basically being led by the PYD, the YPG, and the YPJ. The political power governing the Republic of Turkey says, or rather, its practices show: Now, you know, some of those who fought ISIS and lost their lives there -- they were later involved in funerals from many countries and Turkey -- for days -- and the funeral of St. Güler, which was reflected in the press, was kept on the border for fifty-nine days. I mean, there's an organization we all curse, and we're even resisting the death of those who fought against this organization. This actually shows very clearly that the current political power is the wink of the eye, let alone the Isil. It is so clear and clear. If you're even resisting the death of those who fought against this army of savagery, that's proof of that. We're not just looking for evidence from him. They nested in Antwerp, in the church, in Adıyaman, in many places, and grew as they grew. The country they haven't crossed over Turkey, the place they haven't done any action, and we can still call it a group of angry people. We changed his name, we did DEAC, but we're still running after his parts, trying to work it out so they can blow themselves up. I'm sorry, it's not the sincerity of the fight against ISIS, but it's a clear expression of walking hand in hand with ISIS; we have to accept it this way. Look, I'm telling you something concrete. Turkish soldiers have photos of ISIS arm in arm, phone calls.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0925par0309	Where did you get it?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0926par0310	Look, the press, the technology...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0925par0311	What press, what press? One-armed press!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0926par0312	...where you've come to this point, asking this question suggests that you've been following this far behind the agenda.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0925par0313	You're following up ahead?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0926par0314	We certainly don't follow you from the pencil sharpeners you bought.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0925par0315	We don't buy anyone.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0927par0316	Why don't you explain to me where you're following your source? Are you buying from Russia?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0317	Thus, Turkey is persistently seeking an account in the Middle East, seeking an account, and is trying to move one step at a time through ISIS and other groups with derivatives.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0925par0318	We were never close to any terrorist organization. You'll get your words back!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0319	And just to justify it, the PYD is a terrorist organization for us, so we can't accept PYD.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0925par0320	It's also a terrorist organization for us in the PYD, both ACK and ISIS and DEAS. Don't say ISIS, Dean.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0321	So what are your intentions? It's not like there's going to be a moderate group in there where you're so persistently dreaming about fighting ISIS that you're not actually doing anything about it? No. Your intention is to clean up the democratic life that the Kurds and the Kurds will build there and be left to ISIS.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0929par0322	Don't be ridiculous!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0323	Look at Adıyaman, Antwerp, and the Church, and you will know that nonsense is the word that comes out of your mouth, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0930par0324	Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0931par0325	Congressmans, please, I beg of you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0326	So right now I'm here criticizing what the current political government is doing as a member of the opposition party, and I think I'm entitled to that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0932par0327	Do you know what you're talking about?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0328	So, if you answer with a level of response, at least, persistently, we have received so many votes. The people you call the people will have the expression of respect for the people.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0933par0329	You don't have the right to call terrorism a terrorist organization, do you? You have every right, you don't have it, do you?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0934par0330	You have no respect for these people, for once.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0331	This is your vocabulary: terror, ditch, terror, ditch.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0934par0332	Once you've said a word against the PKK, talk like that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0333	Come here and talk to me.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0935par0334	PKK is a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0335	Mr. Group Vice President, we haven't seen anyone here talking much. Come talk to me here. Look, there's a lot of stuff. Talk for 20 minutes, 10 minutes. Why can't you come up here? Tell me, why can't you come?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0936par0337	You're like parrots, parrots. You're always talking about the same thing, we're sick of it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0338	Yes, there is a ditch in this country.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0937par0339	The hole, the pit. Correction, pothole.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0340	There's a hole, yes; come on, let's take what you said, the pit, okay.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0937par0341	Pit politics. My Kurdish brothers there are covering up pit politics.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0342	Do you know where that hole is? It's the hole that the AKP created in its own mind, so clear. Admit it. While you Kurds have no demand to divide the country by polarizing the peoples...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0938par0343	You're interrupting and you're talking! Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0344	That's exactly what you're going to do by pushing it away from each other. But you probably don't know that.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0938par0345	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0346	Because whatever the palace says, raise your hand, there's nothing else.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0938par0347	Come on!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0939par0348	You'd love it, but it's not, it's not.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0349	So, we have a lot of respect for the people who voted for you, but we don't want you to see your present position, style, maturity at this time of night, frankly, just because of that respect.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0940par0350	You look in the mirror, in the mirror! Look in the mirror first!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0351	We're not looking at the mirror, we're looking at the people themselves.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0941par0352	Look at you, look at you!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0353	You're saying that those tanks are with their people while the cannons are bombing the cities.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0942par0354	Come on! What bombing?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0928par0355	Come, come, talk here. Come talk to me here. Come, come, talk here. Don't show us off, don't show us off.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0942par0356	You're slaughtering them!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0943par0357	He doesn't know what he's talking about!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0944par0358	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0945par0359	If they keep this up, I'll have to talk to them personally. Look, it's a long night. We, the HDP, intend to speak in almost every article.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0946par0361	You're talking nonsense, it's empty!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0945par0362	So, if you're saying the weight of being in power is not based on the majority, but on your policies...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0947par0363	The public doesn't take you seriously.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0945par0364	... each of you, one by one, will be able to speak with sincerity beyond teasing. But we've been here for months, it's just...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0948par0365	You don't even believe you're talking!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0949par0366	What's your name?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0945par0367	Look, this is the first time I've seen you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0949par0368	It's the first time I've seen you, too. I wouldn't have missed it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0945par0369	Pity! It's a shame about the people in that county who voted for you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0950par0371	You mean terrorists?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0951par0372	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0945par0373	And all of your dirty policies, which I'm talking about, which I'm not talking about, which I don't have time for, are going to go into that ditch that you built yourself, and that's how it's going to be shut down. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0952par0376	We see, we see!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0953par0379	Congressmans, since I'm particularly Adıyaman MP, I'd like to make a point, which has been made very often. Neither Adıyaman nor Gaziantep nor any other province has ever given a bonus to any terrorist organization, especially the PKK, who has never given a bonus to DAİŞ, ISIS, or to any other terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0945par0381	Mr. President, that's right, because the AKP does not accept ISIS as a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0953par0382	Our cities belong to their country, to their nation. You can't accuse all these cities. There are cases in every city, but please, let us know what you are. And like the PKK, I would like to say once again that the PYD, YPG, YPJ, and DAİSİSK are also a terrorist organization, which we all must curse and condemn, by remaining faithful to the Constitutional text of the oath, in the name of our unbreakable integrity. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I submit the item to your votes:
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0954par0389	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0953par0391	I'm afraid it's gone. Those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0954par0393	How dare you talk like that! President, please! You can't be so disrespectful! We don't accept that, Mayor. It's not that bad, it's not that bad!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0953par0395	Please, Mr. Lawmakers... Congressmans, I beg you, we're doing a serious job, please... The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. So the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. We're moving on to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, the Court of the State of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Somali Federal Republic have voted publicly to ratify the Defence Industry Co-operation Agreement: ▪ Number of votes used: 202 [[*]] Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Commission Report on the draft law, which is in the 8th place, confirming the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Surinam. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed in 63 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLIC REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY COMMUNITY REPUBLICATION REPUBLICATION REPLICATION OF TRACATION AND ECONOMIC PRODUCTION The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Treaty of Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Suriname, which was signed in Ankara on 7 March 2013, was approved. On the behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on Article 1, Bitlis MP Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0955par0429	Mr. President, on behalf of my party and group, I have made a pledge to ratify the Treaty of Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Republic of Turkey and the Surinam government, whose number is 63. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, international agreements are absolutely important, bringing their communities closer together in both social, commercial and cultural areas, as well as helping to provide new opportunities and economic gains for countries in material areas. For that, we care about international contracts made or taken sides. Another thing we care about is that these international contracts can be applied in practical terms of both commercial and cultural and legal dimensions. Otherwise, the agreements are nothing more than documents. When we look at the documents, we see that a large number of international agreements are waiting in line to be negotiated. They need to be met, as much as discussed, to spread social, cultural and economic gains from here to the entire community. As a party, we support and continue to support any development in society, but when we look at the international bilateral agreements that come our way, it's possible to say that most of them don't serve very much in the interest of society, most of them are in line with neoliberal policies, feeding certain capital parts. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to address the issue of international law. We can express that Turkey's numerous international contracts with signatures have not been met. For example, in June 2015, we became the only country to be examined by the International Labour Organization (ILO) for failing to comply with business security in the world. Another example: In accordance with the agreement signed by 195 countries at the Paris Climate Summit, the global temperature increase should be kept below 2 degrees, while you have not been involved in any such work. So, what's really important here is not to design and present plans, but to create a ground where they can be applied. We invite Turkey, who is particularly weak in international law, to be sensitive about this issue. As it is known, the European Court of Human Rights announced its report covering 2015, and Turkey's weakness in the legal area was revealed to the public with this report card. Turkey, for example, is the third country in the European Court of Human Rights at the end of 2015, with 8.450 applications and maximum lawsuit applications. There are numerous cases that have resulted in violation of the right to fair trial, abuse and torture in custody, effective and competent investigations, violation of the right to freedom and security of individuals, violation of the right to life, violation of Turkey. In addition, the European Court of Human Rights has asked the European Court of Human Rights to accept the application for Hüseyin Paksoy, 16, whose freedom of expression has been violated by the state forces, but who was not allowed to enter the neighborhood to receive him, and to take immediate measures to be taken for the right of life. However, the government has disregarded the European Court of Human Rights' decision to disregard its own law. The pressure on the press and the media, the fear and deterrent policies on the public, the illegal curfews on the streets, the turning of hospitals and schools into headquarters, the violent suppression of every hostile voice, the pointing of academics and teachers to society, does not really make this a surprising result. Rather than this report from the European Court of Human Rights, I'd like to talk about a report from the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey. According to the report, 198 civilians lost their lives during curfews in the southeast between August 16, 2015 and January 21, 2016. The report revealed that at least 1 million 377,000 people had been violated by the most basic rights of life and health, while at least 198 civilians, including 39 (39) children, 29 (29) women, 27 (27) people over 60 years of age lost their lives. Dear lawmakers, it shouldn't be so difficult, it shouldn't be so impossible, to really feel pain, to listen to them, to reach out to them. If the party's MPs are forced to go on a hunger strike just to meet a minister, we need to accept that something is really wrong, something is not working. If a congressman can't reach civilians trapped in the basement in his own constituency, if he's not allowed to, something's really wrong. Of course, it's normal for all of us and each of us to have different ideas, different ideas, but whatever happens, we have to discuss these ideas, sometimes by taunting each other, by dialogue, and by understanding each other; the modern world and the mind tells us that. History will judge us if we stand by and watch this environment of violence and destruction that took place in the east of the country. Each and every one of us has to oppose this drama separately. We have to make international law work. Dear lawmakers, we don't really want much, we just don't want people to die, we say life, but the more we look at what's been going on lately, the more it seems that the government has made the meaning of this word disappear, the more it's empty. The mindset that determines what people will say, what they will wear, and what they will watch, is now trying to determine what life and living will mean. We've seen this in the academic example, we've seen this in Ayþe's teacher's case. Even applauding the word "peace" means the equivalent of organization propaganda at this time. Peace is not far away, but war continues to take place in every moment and every minute of our lives. Even as we speak here, people may be losing their lives. If we can't stop these deaths, if we can't guarantee that even the baby in the womb, let alone grow up and run on the streets, even if we can't guarantee that it'll come into the world, then there's no point in the fact that the bag is being discussed by the laws and international agreements. History will continue to write down every life and death. My only question to you is, do you want to be on the pages of life or death? I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0956par0444	I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Diyarbakır MP Ziya Pir on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Pir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0957par0451	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when it comes to Surinam, of course I have to say a few words about Suriname. Most of us probably don't even know where Suriname is, but we're getting the deals here fast. What does Suriname have to do with us? We can't trade. I'm saying it as someone who's seen it. Okay, there's rainforests that we can import from there, and they're huge, and they're made of wood. Other than that, there are isolated villages in the forest, it needs energy, and it needs huge prefabricated houses. Maybe one of you is interested in prefabricated houses, but they don't pay more than $10,000 for these prefabs. Now, apart from that, the president wants to appoint his brother-in-law Roy to be ambassador to Turkey to improve the bonds of brotherhood with Turkey. Roy's wife is Mrs. Belgin of Antwerp. Therefore, this agreement may be especially important for the development of our relationship with it, our brotherhood. We're not against that, of course, but speaking of brotherhood, the HDP MPs are taking the matter elsewhere tonight, so I'm going to have to take some of the sisterly...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0958par0456	You were doing so well, I swear to God, you were doing so well. We were really listening.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0957par0457	No, no, no.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0958par0458	Come break the rule, come.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0957par0459	Let's not bother each other anymore. I'll read you something nice. There's a speech I made just ten, fifteen minutes before the June 5th Diyarbakır explosion, and I want to read it to you -- not every part of it, but briefly -- and after that talk, I want to briefly tell you what happened at the end of that conversation. My speech begins: "Peace be upon all the peoples of Turkey, all the languages of Turkey, all their religions, all their cultures from Amed. Peace be upon the true brotherhood of the peoples, the honorable peace, the bright futures of the HDP." HDP's new life project, the new peace project, combined all peoples, religions, languages, all colors, cultures under the HDP roof... this is our new life project. Dear friends, I come from the Black Sea as a Turk. I reached out this hand to the Kurds in Amed, and they held this hand tightly because this hand is the hand of true brotherhood, the hand of true and honorable peace. Now, together, we extend this hand from Amed to the Black Sea, to the Aegean, to the Sea, to the Mediterranean, to all the points of Anatolia, to all the points of Turkey, and we say, "Hold this hand, and this hand will not be raised in the air, because now we want honorable peace in Turkey." Hold this hand so the mothers don't cry. It's not a dry slogan. I also went to the graves of the soldiers who died in Amed, and in Kurdistan, and I went to the grave of the guerrilla, and I spoke to their mothers, and there is peace in every mother's tongue, peace. There's little hope of peace in the eyes of children like this, but in Ankara, someone wants to steal the word peace in those mothers' language, the hope of peace in those children's eyes. We will never allow this kind of theft. That's why, then, next Sunday, we're all going to the polls, we're voting, and we're taking care of the votes, because those who hold those votes will hold hope in the eyes of those children. In pain, they sent 15 soldiers to their deaths, and we went there, and we stood in front of the soldiers, and we said, "These soldiers are our children." We took care of them, and we'll take care of them from now on. In the early 1980s, in the 1990s, they used the Turkish flag as an instrument of persecution, and today, we will teach them a lesson in humanity. There are at least 10 or 15 Turkish flags here, and we say that from now on, we will take care of those flags. I said, "We." Then there's the salute. Why did I read this? Just a moment ago, your deputy president, Mr. Bostanci, spoke well of the brotherhood. The Kurds and Turks are brothers, he said. Yeah, it should be, but what do I have here? I've already forgotten this speech, the Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office's statement says: "This is the text of the speech of the suspect Ziya Pir.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0959par0465	But the parts you missed...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0957par0466	That's how the unsub, Ziya Pir, was found with his horse on him.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0960par0467	What was in those places you missed?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0957par0468	...rescue the immunity of the PKK terror organization......of which it has committed its crime... That's the text, that's what you brought the judiciary to Turkey, that's what you brought the brotherhood to Turkey.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0961par0469	What was in between?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0957par0470	Sir?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0962par0471	Give me the whole thing and we'll read it, all of it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0957par0472	Guys, this is from your Commission, go and get it. I'll give you my time, you read this text, read it here, we'll read it together. Let's decide, I'll give you my time. Now, there's a lot of that going around, and you're talking about brotherhood. Now, that's where you brought this brotherhood or the brotherhood came from in Turkey. What do you put in front of the brotherhood? Mr. President just mentioned separatism, the indivisible integrity of the nation. And I'm going to have this conversation every time you accuse us of separatism. I mentioned it last time. A few weeks ago, this was briefly discussed in the Foreign Affairs Commission. It was spoken here about a year ago, maybe ten months ago. Now, friends, as HDP, we always say that we really, really want to live in peace, partner, together within the borders of the Republic of Turkey. We declare it every time, so let's keep it that way. On the other hand, the AKP has been in power since 2002, established its second government in 2003; 16 of our small islands in 2004 have been occupied by Greece.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0963par0476	When?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0957par0477	Since 2004, and so far, you've been silent, and now you're talking about the integrity of the state.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0964par0478	Congressman, that's not true.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0957par0479	Jellink says that for a state to be a state, it has one land; and for the second, it has its people on it; and for the third, it has its sovereignty.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0965par0480	You start well, but you don't finish well!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0957par0481	Now, you've left these islands to Greece, you're leaving the land of our common homeland to invade them, and I'm asking you one last minute: are we the separatists, or are we the separatists who abandoned those islands to Greece?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0966par0482	Why don't you tell me about the PKK?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0957par0483	I'm not asking you to answer that. I'm asking the Minister. Mr. Secretary, please, take us to those islands, let's all go together, see if anyone else has the upper hand.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0967par0484	There's no such thing, don't make it up!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0957par0485	The second question, Mr. Minister -- you can say yes or no -- is about NYD. I don't know, I really don't know, I'd like to ask if the PYD was officially listed as terror by Turkey by this Parliament or by this Council of Ministers? Answer him, and then talk about whether he is a terrorist or not. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0968par0488	Terror, terror!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0969par0489	I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 3. - (1) The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0970par0494	Let me start with the last question. For us, every organization that cooperates with the PKK and with Esed is a terrorist organization, and right now, no man has ever been invaded by Greece or anyone else. We'll present it to you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0971par0497	That's not true, that's not true! The Minister of Defense has confessed or something, Mr. Davutoglu has confessed.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0972par0498	The negotiations on the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on ratification of the Trade and Economic Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Surinam: ▪ Number of votes used: 201 [[x]] Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Morityus, and the Court of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Affairs Report, in accordance with the Agreement on Reciprocity and Protection of Investments. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been suppressed and distributed by the number of 65 rows. On behalf of groups on the entire bill, Bitlis MP Mizgin Irgat on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0973par0521	Mr. President, dear members, I'd like to talk to you a little bit about the fact that I'm his deputy, while the government is here. We don't have a border door, but Bitlis has some serious problems. In this sense, Bitlis is actually a province in Turkey and in the field of belief in the world and in its nature structure that should really be seen and needed to be developed, but at this point, unfortunately, it's a province that has been viewed as just a voting warehouse, which no service has been given properly, trying to continue its life under the snow. The Fair Talk City is trying to melt its snow with Van Lake water...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0974par0523	So is Tripoli, and so is Tripoli.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0973par0524	...because it doesn't have air, people have to go to Musha or Van. Thus, so far, as governments and ministers have promised, the airport promise has not been fulfilled. Every election time, every election before...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0975par0525	Yeah, you burn it, you wash it, you smash the machines, and then...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0976par0526	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please. Mr. Irgat, please.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0977par0528	...the government officials, ministers, officials, unfortunately, have forgotten these words after the election, which are exciting with the promise of air. The last time, last week, there was a statement from the Ministry about an airport opening at six locations; I read it, I read it, I couldn't find Bitlis, I couldn't find it in other provinces. So even though there are so few cities that don't have airports right now, Bitlis wasn't on the list. Thus, the only policies they've run so far have actually failed in Bitlis. Now, I'm going to tell you one by one. Where is Bitlis? What's Bitlis like? Nemrut crater Lake is the second largest lake in the world, and Turkey's largest crater lake. Hakeza is the largest lake of Turkey and the largest lake in the world, formed by the explosion of Lake Van, the Nemrut crater. Thus, in Ahlat, in Adiljaz, in Tatvan, in all its nature, Bitlis is in the centre of Bitlis, a city that contains historical artifacts of hundreds of years, and is about to be destroyed, with its churches, caravansarays and all its historical works, Bitlis is in fact an abandoned city. In fact, when we look at other cities in the same status, at that point, at the level of service, the role of government and authorities, we can see very clearly that it's coming back. The airport project was cooked many times and brought before Bitlisli. Every election time, June 7th and November 1st and before, has been voiced, but unfortunately, these promises have not been fulfilled, they haven't been made. The Tatvan State Hospital was opened, miles from Tatvan, near Bitlis headquarters. For those of you who know, through a place called Rahva, you go to Tatvan State Hospital, so in winter conditions, an emergency patient is unable to reach that hospital on icy roads. So the hospital that was built, so highly praised, was actually opened in a place far away from the county, where there's no meaning, and it's not now -- in a place where Bitlisli, Tatvanli, is of no use to him at all. As we look at their economic problems, there have been studies at the top of Bitlisliya, Tatvani, specialists and privates. At this point, I made a motion to ask the Prime Minister. This question is in my motion, and what I'm talking about right now is actually military policy for Bitlis, for the Bitlis youth, that feeds militant policies, that feeds the war, that creates war inflammatoryness. In Bitlis, however, there are hundreds of economic jobs to be done, but since violent policies are being carried out in the region, the honey and animal in Bitlis' hands and, unfortunately, its nature are being plundered. Do you know that when I was in Bitlis -- the speakers before me -- they bombed the graveyards that were built to pray, and a family of 100 hives were burned when they bombed these graves? The bees' hives, the only source of livelihood he's been feeding all year long, were burned down while the graveyards were being destroyed. I mean, do you know how many crimes were committed there? The beliefs, the center of faith, the sense of worship, the economic areas, the bond of a citizen with this state, the conscience, whatever you're counting behind it, a lot of things have been bombed. While these bombings were being carried out, we've always said that during violent policies, they deepened the historical break, and we need to review all of these policies in order to reduce the gap, reduce the distance, and really happen to the brotherhood that we've been chewing so much into our mouths. With its borders, with its ecology, with its economy, with its entire region, with a whole new revised policy, in a way, with genetic codes. In the spiral of violence, where war and violence rise, there is no normal aspect of life, so the normal course of life is reversed. So we think that militant war policies, violent programs, no longer respond there. The government, the government's reason for existence must now be discussed. What's happening in Cizre, Cleopatra, Diyarbakir, Sur. I mean, our historical sites have taken the history of our civilian people to a terrible place. So I said, even if these curfews are lifted today, even if the curfews are lifted, even if those patients are taken and there are a lot of urban transformations mentioned there, these people won't forget this cruelty, these kids won't forget this, we won't forget this.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0978par0534	That's right, they'll never forget what PKK did, you're right.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0977par0536	So, with the powers that citizens have given the state as soon as possible -- which can be assessed in terms of being a social state, which can be assessed in terms of serving citizens -- the monster is very much passed on in law books without becoming a state, and it has to bond with its own citizen. Currently, the government and state must review citizenship law, civic law with its citizens in the region. Yeah, I think the new constitution is a good way to do that. In fact, it's been changed by changing the constitutions that are being implemented now, but a new constitution is needed, yes, but it's not dictated, the programs in the mind are intended to be debated in public opinion, to be converted into law, so I'm talking about a new social contract. I'm talking about the government's need to make peace with its citizen in a new social contract. I'm talking about a new design, a new perspective, historical reality, ecological reality, cultural structure, a new law. The establishment of this law, of course, is very interested in our policies, and therefore, there are serious expectations about Bitlis and his districts, which I started to talk about. Yes, the People's Democratic Party has taken out 2 of the 3 MPs, but in the end, when you read your program as a government, you will offer equal service to all those who vote for us. Therefore, we demand that this promise be kept. So...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0979par0537	Mr. Irgat...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0977par0538	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0979par0539	We've come to Bitlis, from Moriityus. It's a nice city, but it's a little bit relevant.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0977par0540	I mean, it's relevant, it's all about...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0979par0542	We've come from Moriityus to Bitlis.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0977par0543	No, it doesn't matter... Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0979par0545	Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0977par0546	All of these contracts, these international contracts, the bag of laws that have been legalized here before, are a form system. So, if we don't talk about these problems...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0980par0547	There's the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0977par0548	I mean, who's gonna go to that country you're talking about? How many times will you go?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0980par0549	Mr. Orator, we have a mutual trade agreement there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0977par0550	Why don't you deal with a Bitlis first and leave the distant land, for God's sake?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0981par0551	Bitlis is a beautiful province, a problem with Bitlis...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0977par0552	So now, you haven't made peace with your country, you haven't achieved anything in its social status, economics.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0982par0553	We love our country, we love it. We also love the people of our country.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0983par0554	We will never make peace with the PKK.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0977par0555	Let's not get carried away. Mr. President, you interfered with my speech, really...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0984par0557	Mr. Irgat, however, I had to make a request that you stay on the subject according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0985par0558	But this is the first time you've done this.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0984par0559	This is a duty given by the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0986par0560	Mr. President, he never came to the point so he'd leave!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0987par0561	No, when it comes to the government, you gave that warning, but I'll point out.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0984par0562	No, no... as for Bitlis, I asked how we got from Moriityus to Bitlis. Go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0987par0564	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0984par0565	No, I said it at Bitlis. Here you go, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0987par0567	I understand, I understand your feelings, I understand your feelings, but before we solve our own internal problems... yes, let's make contracts, grow economically, but first let's stop this war, let's stop this war.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0988par0568	What war?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0987par0569	Let's stop this war. Let's stop people from dying.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0988par0570	What war?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0987par0571	After that, let's look at the contracts.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0989par0572	Forget the war fight, go on! Get on the regular road, get on the road!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0987par0573	Therefore, I will return to Bitlis. With Bitlis, with Diyarbakir, and with the Black Sea, you can only have what you say by meeting with Izmir. You know, this country is being run pretty badly right now. It's a fact that Turkey is badly managed.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0990par0574	That's not what people said on November 1st!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0987par0575	With his government, politics, his economy, from his point of view of the woman, look at the violence in the House, the manly language.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0991par0576	Yes, sir? Give us all kinds of insults...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0990par0577	Not at all!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0987par0578	We can give examples in every way. Therefore, be open to criticism. This country is badly ruled, this country is badly ruled. From here to the government official, of course, we're going to interview the required minister -- the entire region, and of course, we're going to play our oppressive role in keeping promises for Bitlis in private.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0990par0580	We keep our promises, don't worry!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0987par0581	We'll remind you of your words...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0992par0582	Mizgin Hanım, you know Bitlis Creek 14 years ago, where the plane is landing right now.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0987par0583	...and we will continue to be with our people in the region. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0993par0585	I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. TO CONTROL THE CONTRIBUTION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION TO CONTINUE THE CONTROL OF CONTROLATION AND PROTECTION OF CONTROLATION MADDE 1- (1) (1) 7/2/2013, signed in İstanbul, has been approved by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Morityus. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3. - (1) The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. As such, negotiations on the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on ratification of Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Morityus for Investments and Protection: ▪ Number of votes used: 197 [[x]] Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Companies' Act on the Competence of Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Republic of Mauritius. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been suppressed and distributed by 66 rows. On top of the bill, on behalf of the groups, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Konca, your time is 20 minutes. In fact, you can travel from Moriityus to Siirt.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0994par0620	I will not travel to Ziirt. I will stay in Bitlis. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, we're making deals with morityus, coming to our coven, trade deals. I looked at Mortityus, a small island in Africa, and a 259 square miles [259 km] of the population of 76,605. He had two tourist destinations, seven colored lands, and one waterfall, and you'd be thrilled when you left. They had tourist sites, hotels.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0995par0623	How high was the waterfall?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0994par0624	I'm not gonna talk about it, I'm gonna bring it over here:
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0995par0625	Tell me the height of the waterfall, over.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0994par0626	If you're making the deal, you need to know, I didn't make the deal.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0995par0628	You've learned it all, so tell me.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0994par0629	You find out. What are you going to invest in the waterfall? You think about what you're gonna do with the sewers or whatever, I don't have to think about it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0995par0631	You've learned it all, so tell me about the waterfall.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0994par0632	No, I mean, how did you get from Bitlis to Moriityus? We're here too, and this deal is being made, so let's find out what wealth will come and what will go. We said, "Let's not do anything bad."
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0996par0633	But it's half an hour before the last flight to Moratyus!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0994par0634	So I'll tell you this, yes, and Hakkarii is very close either to Hakkari or Bitlis. You're thinking about declination of Hakkari, a population of 80,000, which is more than a province, and you're thinking that, as we say, a country with a population of 76,000 square feet is a country, a government, and you're going to develop a source of wealth by developing business relations with it. You're thinking of disinheriting Şırnak, and you're saying you'll carry it. That's the difference: you're not doing the right politics we're criticizing, we're saying. These are the points we call them, my friends. If I were to mention that development within us, that wealth, that Hakkari, Şırnak, Seirtt... look, we're making all these laws... this year we're declaring a state of emergency in many districts of Siirt, Pervari, Shirvan, Baykan... The poem has very rich beauty; it has a maiden's coat, which is what we call the "mean coffee" in Turkish. The mountain is full of stones. Because the forbidden region was declared, the maidens were not gathered, and the peanuts were not gathered, and the pomegranates were still cracking in the villages, because it is a forbidden region, and there it was said that it would not go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0997par0637	You need to talk about the international contract. Moriityus, Moriityus...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0994par0638	We're building a law here to invest in a 250-square-mile radius, but we're not taking down the restricted area there. That girl can make good coffee, it's good for health, it's good for soap, it's good for bald people, it's good for bald friends, it can use it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0998par0640	What a shame!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0999par0641	I'll take the address again, the address.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0994par0642	Kele's good too, all the bald ones can take it. It's also a city rich in peanuts and agriculture. If you want to make contact...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1000par0644	Now, don't let all bald ones want to talk about bullying, Mr. Konca, please, let's not mess with the individual, let's not be bullied.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0994par0646	Maybe... no, I didn't say the individuals, I told them what they were for. It's a contribution, it's being sold.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1001par0647	No teasing, we want an address, an address.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0994par0648	We can trade it. For women, we can build a co-op for the young people there, we can turn it into all languages, and we can take it to this morityus, or a lot of other countries that you describe, and we can sell it, and we can promote it. We don't need to make laws for all of this, but we can do this with the size of cooperatives. We also want to improve it, but we can't do it because of this condition, because of the forbidden logic in the process, because villages have been evacuated in the past, because now there are many villages where the rangers have settled, and because he won't let the people in that village come back. Wealth is here, investment can be here, resources can be here, we can evaluate them. I won't take up all my time. A member of the AKP Group, who has been bullied in recent discussions, said: "You will answer for your cooperation with imperialism. You will answer for your cooperation with armed organizations. We know the imperialist forces, the United States, Israel...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1002par0650	Russia is an imperialist, isn't it?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0994par0651	Yes, it's Russia. You are negotiating with Russia at the bottom, which is likely to be discussed in the future. Like you said, like Assad, Russia was almost my brother, Putin was Mr. Erdoğan's friend, his best friend, he understood.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1002par0652	We're trading.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0994par0653	We don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. If you can open your military agreements with Israel, if there is an alliance with imperialism, all governments have done it, as always, and you were against Israel during the Erbakan period, but you made the most military agreements with Israel. That's your policy today. Three years, you said, "Israel is a terrorist, he's slaughtering Palestinians." Today, two months ago, you said, "We need Israel, we need to improve our relations. You are the ones who cooperate with terrorism. Like we just said...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1003par0654	We had a condition to remove the embargo.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0994par0655	That's not the embargo, it's a line of politics, it's a line of truth, it's true for a hundred years. You defend it in the right place at the right time. We're like this for three months, not four months. Let us now clarify our curves and truths, like the program of Taha Akyol. We don't know which is the curve, which is the truth, because it's changing so fast, it's changing so fast. Our friend just asked again, did you or did you not put the NYD on the terror list? I just told you, it's off the record, so I'm gonna repeat it. From the village of Karakozak, you brought Süleyman Shah Temple to the village of Yaşme. At that time, you had relations, you had discussions and discussions with Mr. Muslim, and you developed relationships. Now, while you're developing these relationships, they're not terrorists when you're conducting these arguments because you have a mutual interest relationship, a strategy that you've calculated, you have deep strategies. People stand up straight, and when they stand firm, when they don't suit you, they become terrorists. Then what do we say about it? If the P.Y.D. is a terrorist for you, then we'll give you a gene, and we'll say, "Why do you have a relationship with a terrorist?" Why did you become partners in the marriage? Why did you bring the meetings and conduct them? Don't tease me, that's not why I'm saying this, I'm saying it in terms of a rationality.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1004par0657	You collaborated with the Kurdish killer, Assad.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe0994par0658	Look, it hasn't been long since the wife. If you're right, always defend, and we'll stand beside you. And let not your wrongs change often, and let your attitudes be clear. Let us criticize them and take a stand against them. You can criticize our rights and wrongs, but I'm very new in politics or in this Parliament, and this is the second time I've been here, and I've only been here five days. I've heard the same things about you, the same things. The concepts you're reacting to us, criticizing us are the only concept. Whether we have grown politically differently, if we have evolved, how to solve Turkey's problems, how to create differences; you have no criticism of our perspective on this. You are persistently supporting terror. Why don't you say "shut up," why don't you curse it? Turkey is a different reality than that. We say a lot of things. There's a lot of what we say and try to do in our schedule and in our party's work. The Kurdish movement, I told you that day, in the 1990s, we lived in the 1990s, we lived in the 2000s, we cared about the AKP government when it came to power, we cared about it, we believed it could, we lived through it, we had discussions, we had discussions. Look, Mr. Ariç said again today, let me remind you again that Mr. Erdogan had news of Mr. Erdoğan, that Mr. President Erdoğan had heard of Dolmabahçe. Some of our friends even consult with the President about their private affairs. It's your veteran who says that such a problem is always associated with a president who is consulted by private affairs. That's what your friend, who you respect so much, says. If we say something else, you'll say, "Shut up." You'll say, "Shut up." You'll say, "Shut up." But politics is something else. Look, guys, one day tomorrow, these processes are gonna change. Again, we'll sit down, we'll argue again; it'll be you or someone else. Politics is something else. I won't take too long, and I won't take up all my time, but for Moriityus, for short, to compare the importance you gave there to the provinces here and to the Kurdistan. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1005par0663	There is no Kurdistan, there is the state government of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1006par0664	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. TO CONTROL THE CONTRACT OF TRACTION AND ECONOMIC PRODUCTION WITH THE COMMUNICATION OF TURKEY The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Treaty of Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Republic of Morityus, signed in Istanbul on February 7, 2013. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who do not accept... shall be admitted to Article 3. So the negotiations on the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The Open Vote for Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Maurityus: ▪ The number of votes used: 200 [[x]] Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin talks with the Foreign Commission Report (1/326) and the Court's Law Bill (1/326) on the adoption of the 1/2013 Amendment to the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Chile. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 61 rows. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Van MP Tuğba Hezer Özturk wants to speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. [[Applause from HDP rows]] You too will now take a journey from Chile to Van Nahurk, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1007par0700	He'll do it from Pinochet to Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1006par0701	Your time is 20 minutes, but you can finish it very quickly. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0703	The eyes look so alive, Mayor, as if they never meant to end. So, full team, let's go. First of all, thank you for your sensitivity, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressmans, yes, there's a Chilean reality out there, whether we go or not. South America, you know, is a country that extends all the way north and south to Antarctica, but the last thing I'm going to tie up is Van.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1009par0706	May I add that Chile is a country built just to keep the Argentineans out of the sea.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0707	The capital is, you know, Santiago, the official language is Spanish, and there are Chilean Indians as ethnic groups. The management system -- for all of us to know, general culture is good -- is run by the unitary presidential system.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1010par0708	Units and presidents.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0709	His first constitution was made in 1810, and he has a population of about 17 million and 500. Basic livelihoods, economic resources are copper, wine, fishing, and copper production is still under the control of the state. The GDP is $243,357 billion, and the income per person is $14.525. Yes, my dear friends, our next city is Van Nah. Now, on October 2011 and 23rd...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1011par0712	You forgot the waterfall.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0713	We'll take it from you some other time. On October 23rd, 2011, there was a tragic disaster in Van. There was an earthquake, you know, a 7.2-sized earthquake, and we had hundreds of...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1012par0715	But how we built the city!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0716	I'll get to that. ...we lost our people. Yes, I mean, as a Vanian and a Van MP for that process, we've had a number of experiences, especially as a Erjish person who was hit by the second earthquake, and we've seen some of the things that we've seen, and there are some criticisms of the current government as well, of course, in that sense. Now, dear friends, in that earthquake, you know, from the moment of the earthquake, international aid agencies or countries, states have offered to help, at the search rescue -AKUT -- they made such an offer, but the government at that time said that at the same time the AKP government said: "We will not accept help in order to see our own power." And unfortunately, many people have lost their lives because search and rescue efforts failed. I mean, let me be honest with you guys, it's just that I'm the opposition, and I'm critical of the government, and it's not whatever it is. Look, it's really one-on-one that lived in that area, saw it, witnessed it, and at the same time, I was there, volunteering for help in the earthquake process, when I was a college student. Fortunately, yes, the wounded were rescued, lost their lives. In the next process, construction... yes, the construction process has begun, and unfortunately, we are still experiencing the injuries of that construction process, and we really are. About 20,000 dwellings were built in Van (Kİ) by the hand of the Toki (TİKİ).
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1013par0720	Say thank you, thank you...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0721	About 20,000 dwellings were built. I'll tell you, thank you or not, all Parliament, they have the credit. Now, dear friends, we've had our research, and we need to specify how much an apartment can cost, how much can be charged to a citizen, and that there has been an earthquake, his house is destroyed, or his landlord is a victim. So I'll buy myself a house again. He's not in his imagination. We're talking about the earthquake victims we have to provide for. The average cost -- I call it an apartment -- is going to be $35,000 to $40,000, unfortunately -- is not just a number we're talking about. Look, there are 20,000 TOKI dwellings and people living in them. We've been with them a lot. How much do you pay for this apartment? We've had a lot of conversations. I'm saying it as someone from a one-on-one area.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1014par0724	What's the market unit price?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0725	How much do you think the $35,000, 40,000, 50,000, 60,000, and so forth, cost-made TOKI dwellings are sold to the public? I'll tell you: $80,000 to $120,000, and these are victims of an earthquake. Look, the earthquake victim... In addition, part of the land, the land of those TOKI was public property; the public belongs to the public. So without turning it into a profit, without bringing it to a profit point... yeah, there are earthquake victims out there, at the point where we have to do our part in the responsibility of being a social state, unfortunately we're seriously incomplete as a state of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1014par0727	Give it back... give it back...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0728	There's still a public reality in those houses that has to be removed at any moment, unfortunately, because they can't pay for those apartments. One of the more painful things -- again, I'm pointing out -- are these earthquake victims -- look, the earthquake victims are being transferred into interest if they don't pay the common cost. So far, there's been over 10,000 individual executions due to the interest of common expenses. We're talking about people who were left out of an earthquake, and they're not even going to get a monthly minimum wage without it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1015par0730	He's giving you 20 years! It's 20 years without interest!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0731	So, okay, I understand that criticism of your current party may be unacceptable, but we may not have everything right, and we don't have everything right, do we? So you have to admit that a little bit.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1015par0732	He'll say the same thing if he gives it away for free.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0733	Look, these aren't numbers that we're talking about, I'm telling you, from somewhere, they're not numbers. Go, one by one, to the Edremit of Van, to the Tokimites of Ercish, because we have done so.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1015par0734	Look, why didn't you come to the power union meeting last week?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0735	And if Mr. Burhan Kayaturk, our Van MP, was here, he'd probably know exactly what I mean because he's one of the districts.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1016par0736	It's all bad, huh?
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0737	And as a result, we have to make a choice if we're running a policy and we're in charge of being political power. We have political preferences; yes, we're going to put society's benefits at the forefront, and we're going to put the profit mechanism behind us, or we're going to victimize the public by putting profit ahead. The government's choice at the time was unfortunately to profit and victimize. There's a much more painful situation: 28 families live in container cities, 28 families now. The year of 2016, the earthquake was 2011, the five families... in response to the empty apartments at Edremit TOKIKI.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1017par0739	Come to Chile!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0740	If it's about Chile, I've given you enough information to last you a year, so be content with it. And I really, really, would like to tell you about something that is serious, perhaps not known by many of our MPs, about this condition of Van ▪. Like we said, yes, we know, this bill is about to be passed. As opposition, we are ready to express ourselves wherever possible, and we are making it clear. Hence, there were tax debts left in many earthquakes, but that was not done in Van, and Van was condemned to close down his shop. When we look at the general levels of development and so on, Van is now number 76 in Turkey. Thus, many of you may know Van. It's really a city that doesn't deserve this position with tourism, economy, animalism, agriculture, but...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1018par0744	The city doesn't work.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0745	We know exactly what the city does and which it doesn't, Congressman. So, we're on the same level as each other, and we're on that savings, so don't worry.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1018par0746	No doubt about it, no doubt about it!
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0747	And speaking of the TOKI, as we speak, the government has set out with the same rant ambition in the conflict that is already going on in Sur. Don't touch it. We've been burned from the Van, so don't touch.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1018par0748	We're going to build homes for local architecture.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0749	Do not be so cruel as to leave it to the political and monetary share of TOKI.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1018par0750	We're going urban. The pits will close.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0751	We're talking about a people who are still in debt and who can't pay off their debt.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1019par0752	They pay you a house for twenty years, and they pay you 80 percent, and you don't accept it.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0753	Look, I still have nine minutes, so as long as you're picking on me, I'll fill in nine minutes. [[There is no problem with the AK PARTY.]] And we say, "No citizen, look, no citizen of ours, if we're in these seats with them, all of them, I'm sure each of you has made promises to your own constituents in the provinces where you've been chosen. We all made promises to our own provinces. We're going to have to take a proper stand. And once we're in Parliament, we're not only responsible for the provinces we've been elected to, you know, we're responsible for all the provinces of Turkey. So, I'm not just saying that these current problems should stay where they are. I'm saying we need to sort this out somehow. Because, look, when we talk about 20,000 TOKI, it's the population of a city when we calculate that there are four or five people living on average in each of them. It's not an easy number, is it, Mr. Burhan? You know. So that's why we're all here for the welfare of the people, the citizens, the peace of the citizens, and the real peace of mind that we're all here for, if we're all willing to accept that we're here to live with that conscience and that peace of mind, and that there's problems that can't be solved, and that's not unresolved. Thus, the solution of all these things must be met together. Now, if this is really serious...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1020par0758	You're torturing yourself, but come on...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0759	Look, seriously...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1020par0760	You're torturing yourself.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0761	If you take the problems I'm seriously talking about as respect for myself, I think of them as disrespect, disrespect for my speech, and I don't give it to you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1021par0762	Please, lawmakers, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0763	I don't.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1021par0764	Let's finish this, God willing. We're almost there.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1008par0765	In particular, all the problems of this country are your responsibility, and if you speak in this way, it shows your seriousness toward all citizens. So, as a last word, I say turn around and take a look at yourself. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1022par0769	President, I need two minutes...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1023par0770	Here you are, Mr. Ironel. However, by the way, all negotiations have been completed. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1024par0774	We know it's been a very late hour, but we just told you, for three days our friends have really been here on a hunger strike. So we're not going, we're in Congress, we've been in Parliament for three days. And from now on, if this problem doesn't work out tomorrow, we'll continue our hunger strike as our group more strongly, but we wish that... Guys...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1023par0777	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1024par0778	It's our wish that we all solve this problem together. Our friends called in the names. This problem is an urgent problem, a humanitarian problem, and let's all solve this problem together so that none of us will be subjected to it, especially the government. That's why we want to end it here. I think there was a request for friends who said they were going to pray about the prayer.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1025par0781	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1024par0782	We're done here. I thank the entire committee, and say good night.
tbmm-2016-01-29sit09spe1025par0784	Thank you, thank you. It's been a long time since we've had a meeting. We've had a meeting. We've had a meeting. MADDE 1- (1) Approved 1/2013 of the 1/2013 Amendment to the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Chile signed in Ankara on 26 March 2013. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The Council of Ministers is authorized to approve amendments to the supplements of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Chile. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. MADDE 3- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. So the negotiations on the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on the adoption of the 1/2013 Amendment to the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Chile: ▪ Number of votes used : 193 [[x]] Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Government of the Republic of Djibouti, and with the Foreign Commission Report and the draft of the Dair Law on Approvement of Investments Reciprocity and Protection. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 67 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The establishment of the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Turkey shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and the establishment of the establishment of the Constitution and the protection of the State of Turkey. Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Djibouti, which was signed in Mersin on 25 September 2013, was approved. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who do not accept... shall be admitted to Article 1. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who do not accept... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who do not accept... shall be admitted to Article 3. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The Court of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Djibouti, under open vote that the Agreement on Reciprocity and Protection of Investments is Approved: ▪ Number of votes used: 194 [[x]] Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. That's the end of our work period. I want to thank everyone, all the groups, all the lawmakers, very, very much. And I especially want to thank the friends on the couch. We thank the stenographers, the cavas, the press, everyone who's worked, all our citizens. Under the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (February 9th 2016) to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Have a good morning, have a good holiday.
